Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3120 CH
(Second Road Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 28, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3120 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Export-Import Bank of Japan 
(Eximbank) a loan (the Eximbank Loan) in an amount equivalent to approximately one 
hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Eximbank Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Eximbank;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Vialidad" means Direccion de Vialidad, the Roads Directorate of the 
Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower; 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Second Highway Reconstruction Project" means the Project, as so defined, 
under the Loan Agreement (Loan No. 2297-CH), dated August 1, 1983, between the 
Borrower and the Bank in respect of said Project;
(d)
"First Road Sector Project" means the Project, as so defined, under the 
Loan Agreement (Loan No. 2589-CH), dated October 10, 1985, between the Borrower and 
the Bank in respect of said Project; and
(e)
"1990-1997 Road Program" means the Borrower's road investment and 
maintenance program for the years 1990 through 1997, as agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred twenty-four 
million dollars ($224,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Banco Central de Chile on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  3
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through Vialidad with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, administrative, environmental, economic and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower agrees that both its 1990-1997 Road Program and its 
detailed annual road investment and maintenance program for the year 1990 and for each 
subsequent year during the execution of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  4
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out the studies included in the Project 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The Borrower shall complete the 
studies forming Part F.1 of the Project by September 30, 1990, the studies forming 
Parts F.2 and F.3 of the Project by December 31, 1990, and the studies forming Part 
F.4 of the Project by December 31, 1993. The Borrower shall promptly after the 
completion of each study included in the Project furnish to the Bank a copy of its 
findings and recommendations, and shall, to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the 
Bank, prepare programs or plans of action to carry out the recommendations of such 
studies.
Section 3.04. The Borrower through Vialidad shall, during the execution of the 
Project: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
before the end of each quarter ending December 31, March 30, June 30 and September 30, 
a written report on the progress achieved in the execution of, inter alia, the 
physical, financial, institutional and environmental aspects of the Project. Each such 
report shall be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request and 
shall include, inter alia, information indicating progress achieved, measured against 
key monitoring and evaluation indicators acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
meet with the representatives of the Bank at least twice a year during 
the execution of the Project to review said progress against such key monitoring and 
evaluation indicators, said meetings to be conducted in respect of the first period of 
six months of each year, by the next following August 30, and, in respect of the 
second period of six months of each year, by the next following February 28.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, consultants' services and training activities required for the Project 
and to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
Page  5
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause all roads of the Borrower to be 
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, in 
accordance with appropriate engineering, administrative, environmental, economic and 
financial practices; (ii) cause all road maintenance equipment and workshops to be 
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate engineering, 
administrative, environmental, economic and financial practices; and (iii) without 
limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, promptly provide 
all funds required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Eximbank Loan Agreement or a colenders agreement between the Bank and 
Eximbank relating to the cofinancing of the Project shall have failed to become 
effective by December 1, 1989, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Eximbank Loan or 
any other loan made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date December 28, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works
Morande 59
Santiago
Chile
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINOBRAS 
240777 SETOP CL
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly  authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Enrique Seguel
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  7
Countersigned on behalf of the
Controller General and of the
Treasury General of the
Republic of Chile
By /s/ Octavio Errazuriz Guilisasti
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works under             180,000,000       32%
     Parts A.1,
     A.2 and B of
     the Project
(2)  Goods under               2,000,000       100% of foreign
     the Project                               expenditures
                                               in respect of
                                               goods procured
                                               from abroad and
                                               70% of total
                                               expenditures
                                               in respect of
                                               goods procured
                                               in Chile
(3)  Services of              14,700,000       100% of foreign
     consultants                               expenditures and
     and training                              70% of local
     expenditures                              expenditures
     under Parts D,
     E.1, E.2, E.4,
     E.5 and F of
     the Project
(4)  Training expen-             300,000       100%
     ditures for
     study visits
     abroad under
     Part E.3 of
     the Project
(5)  Unallocated              27,000,000
                             ___________
          TOTAL              224,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  8
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$7,000,000, may be made in respect of Category 1 and, for consultants' services, in 
respect of Category 2, on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1989.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the Borrower's road investment and maintenance program for 
the years 1990-93 as well as the administration thereof.
The main objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the execution 
of said program generally, and in particular, to: (i) reach normal maintenance level 
with a balanced distribution of funds between road investment and maintenance; (ii) 
reestablish a functional local road maintenance system with improved technical 
execution; (iii) resolve major traffic congestion problems through a select program of 
doubled roadways and rehabilitation of road bridges; (iv) improve competence of 
Vialidad in the economic evaluation of road construction and maintenance through the 
use of computer models; and (v) strengthen the capabilities of Vialidad's Departamento 
de Conservacion (Road Maintenance Department) by means of training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Civil works in connection with the following road investments which shall be 
executed in accordance with plans acceptable to the Bank:
(1)
Construction of approximately 156 kilometers of double road-ways and bridges on 
major heavily traveled roads;
(2)
Replacement or reconstruction of approximately thirteen major bridges other than 
those referred to in paragraph (1); and
(3)
Construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or upgrading of roads included in 
the basic and in the primary local road networks of the Borrower, including the 
construction of bridges, bypasses and urban overpasses.
Part B:
Civil works in connection with the following road maintenance and rehabilitation 
activities which shall be executed in accordance with plans acceptable to the Bank:
(1)
Periodic maintenance, including: (a) resealing of surface treatments or overlays 
of roadways and shoulders; (b) gravelling and paving of unpaved surfaces; and (c) 
repair of drainage and river training structures, including bridges;
(2)
(A)
Routine maintenance of the Borrower's basic road network comprising 
approximately 23,000 kilometers of roads; (B) Routine maintenance of the Borrower's 
primary local road network comprising approximately 24,000 kilometers of roads; and 
(C) Routine maintenance, in which the Borrower shall participate together with the 
Borrower's municipalities, of the Borrower's secondary local road network, comprising 
approximately 32,000 kilometers of roads; all such routine maintenance referred to in 
(A) through (C) above to include: (a) patching and sealing joints and cracks on roads 
paved with bituminous or cement concrete; (b) grading and spot regravelling of unpaved 
roads; (c) clearing and maintenance of drainage ditches and their structures; (d) 
maintenance of bridges and river-training structures; (e) maintenance of tunnels, 
Page  9
weighing and toll stations, road signs and road markings; and (f) snow
removal; and 
(3)
Emergency rehabilitation of roads and road structures in case of unforeseen 
disasters.
Part C:
Acquisition and utilization of road maintenance equipment for Vialidad.
Part D:
Consultants' services in connection with Part A and Part B of the Project, 
including consultants' services for (1) Project coordination; (2) engineering studies; 
(3) supervision of major civil works; (4) continuation of long-range pavement 
evaluation and design studies to assist in establishing an adequate management system, 
which were begun under the Second Highway Reconstruction Project and were continued 
under the First Road Sector Project; (5) studies to adapt the Highway Designs and 
Maintenance III PC - computer system, developed by the Bank for purposes of design and 
management of road networks, to handle congested roads and cement concrete roads; and 
(6)  feasibility and engineering studies to prepare future activities in the 
Borrower's road sector.
Part E:
Improvement of the maintenance capability of Vialidad by means of (1) training 
of about 3,400 professionals, technicians and administrative employees of Vialidad; 
(2) training of the instructors of Vialidad performing training for managers, 
professionals, skilled workers, foremen and administrative personnel; (3) implementing 
study visits abroad for approximately 45 managers and professionals of Vialidad; (4) 
upgrading teaching materials; and (5) developing the training policies of Vialidad. 
Part F:
Studies to: (1) update the road user charges system of the Borrower; (2) 
evaluate the costs and benefits of the training program of Vialidad for the years 1986 
through 1989 and to measure the effects of said training program; (3) determine the 
procedures involved in establishing a well functioning transport information system 
for the purpose of publishing transport data on a regular basis; and (4) improve the 
evaluation methodology of dual carriageway roads.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning May 15, 1995
     through   May 15, 2006                        9,335,000
On November 15, 2006                               9,295,000
Page  10
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid  shall be the 
percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate  (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                     1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement; Consultants' Services
and Training Activities
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, works and goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for the works to be procured on the basis of international competitive 
bidding shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  11
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
C hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less, and goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less, may be procured, under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding Part A and Part C.1 above, civil works under Part B (2) of the 
Project, may be undertaken by the Borrower's own personnel utilizing the Borrower's 
own equipment, provided that the Bank is satisfied that execution of such works by the 
Borrower is less costly than execution of said works would be if performed by 
contractors selected in accordance with Part A or, when applicable, Part C.1 above.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Review of contracts:
 
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to: (i) all contracts and related documents in respect of 
works subject to Part A of this Schedule 4; (ii) the first three contracts and related 
documents in respect of works subject to Part C.1 of this Schedule; (iii) all 
contracts and related documents in respect of goods the cost of which would exceed the 
equivalent of $300,000; and (iv) the first three contracts and related documents in 
respect of hiring of consultants, and after such three contracts have been submitted 
to the Bank for its review, with respect to all said contracts and related documents 
when the amount of the respective contract would exceed the equivalent of $200,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III.
Training Activities
 
Page  12
1.
Notwithstanding Section II above, training activities under the Project may be 
undertaken by the Borrower's own personnel, provided that the Bank is satisfied that 
execution of such training activities is less costly than execution of said activities 
would be if performed by consultants selected in accordance with Section II above.
2.
Transportation and other associated services in connection with training 
activities shall be procured under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$19,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been made out of 
the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
Page  13
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories for the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
