Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25234
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39860)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 210.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 10, 2003
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = yuan (Y)
Y1.00 = US$ 0.12082
US$ 1.00 = Y8.2768
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT         -       Annual average daily traffic
ADB          -       Asian Development Bank
E&M          -       Electrical and mechanical
EAP          -       Environmental Action Plan
EIRR         -       Economic intemal rate of return
FIRR         -       Financial intemal rate of return
FJTH         -       Famen-Jiangzhuang-Tangyu Highway
GOVAI        -       Gross output value of agriculture and industry
ICB          -       International competitive bidding
LTWMH        -       Lintong-Terra Cotta Warriors Museum Higlhway
LXH          -       Lantian-Xiaoshangyuan Highway
MOC          -       Ministry of Commnunications
MTE          -       Medium truck equivalent
NPV          -       Net present value
PEO          -       Project Execution Office
RAP          -       Resettlement Action Plan
RIPA         -       Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation
SHGHAB       -       Shaanxi High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau
SPTD         -       Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department
THH          -       Tongchuan-Huangling Highway
VOC          -       Vehicle operating costs
WTE          -       Weinan-Tongguan Expressway
XSH          -       Xian-Sanyuan Highway
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yasuhiro Kawabata, EASTR



CHINA
Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             51
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             53
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                54
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            55
Map 1: Transport System in Shaanxi Province (EBRD27047R)
Map 2: High-Grade Highways in the Project (IBRD27048)






Project ID: P003652                                      | Project Name. Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway
Teain Leader: Yasuhiro Kawabata                          TL Uniit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: February 10, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Proj.       LICITF Number. SCL-39860
Cozntry/Department: CHINA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Roads & highways (84%); Other social services
(15%); Sub-national government administration
(1%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/13/1994                             Effective: 07/16/1996        07/16/1996
Appraisal:  07/10/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  03/21/1996                              Closing:  12/31/2001        12/31/2002
Borrower/lnIplementingAgencv: PEOPLE'S REPUBLI(C OF CHINA/SHAANXI PROVINCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell J. Cheetham
Countiy Manager:     Yukon Huang                               Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                        Richard G. Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:  Yasuhiro Kawabata                         Hatim M. Hajj
ICR Prima?y Auzthor:  Yasuhiro Kawabata
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely. HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Instituitional Development Impact: SU
Bank Pemformance: S
Bor r ower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had the following objectives: (i) support continuing development of road infrastructure to
relieve congestion, improve access to important archeological and tourist sites, facilitate mobility, and
increase the efficiency of road transport; (ii) assist in the implementation of policy to alleviate poverty in
the poor areas of the province; (iii) promote development of institutional capabilities of Shaanxi Provincial
Transport Department (SPTD); and (iv) increase the safety of road transport.
The project objectives were clear and were accorded very high priority by the Government to meet its
long-term development target. The project objectives were also in line with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for China presented to the Board on May 10, 1995. The Bank strategy supports continued
institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at modernizing the highway system and its
management, as well as investment for high-priority links of the National Trunk Highway System and the
provincial road network that feeds into it.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained the same throughout project implementation.
3.3 Original Components
The following seven components comprised the project:
a. construction of the following five high-grade highways:
i. Weinan-Tongguan Expressway (WTE) -- a 78.1 kn four-lane expressway between Weinan
and Tongguan at the border with Henan Province;
ii. Tongchuan-Huangling Highway (THH) -- a 73.6 km four-lane Class I highway between
Tongchuan and Huangling and doubling of the existing 18.4 km two-lane Class I highway
between Yaoxian and Tongchuan;
iii. Lantian-Xiaoshangyuan Highway (LXH) - a 48.3 km two-lane Class II auto-only highway
between Lantian and Xiaoshangyuan;
iv. Lington-Terra Cotta Warriors Museum Highway (LTWMH) -- a 5.9 km two-lane Class II
auto-only highway connecting Lintong and the Terra Cotta Warriors Museum; and
v. Famen-Jiangzhuang-Tangyu Highway (FJTH) -- a 34.8 km two-lane Class II auto-only
highway between Famen Buddhist Temple and Jiangzhuang, and between Jiangzhuang and
Tangyu;
b. upgrading of the 32 kmn, Class I Xian-Sanyuan Highway (XSH) by providing full control of
access, traffic safety devices, and installation of a telecommunications system;
c. construction, rehabilitation, and upgrading of three linking roads with a total length of about 8.2
km to interconnect and feed traffic to the proposed high-grade highways at interchanges;
d. improvement and new construction of about 4,100 km of rural roads in a program to help alleviate
poverty (RIPA) in poor counties;
e. provision of equipment for:
-2 -



i. control of construction quality and monitoring of the environment during the construction of
the high-grade highways and their linking roads;
ii. operation and maintenance of the high-grade highways;
iii. maintenance of the Shaanxi provincial highway network (other than the high-grade highways);
iv. institutional strengthening of SPTD and related institutions and the traffic police;
f. a road safety component to help reduce accidents on Shaanxi's highways; and
g. institutional strengthening and training of the staff of SPTD and its related agencies and institutes
by enhancing capabilities in the high-grade highway construction supervision and operations;
highway investment planning, including a study of alternative locations for the Xian bypass;
maintenance of high-grade highways and other roads, including a study of highway maintenance;
and implementation of RIPA and highway traffic components of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Two subprojects under the component for upgrading the 32 km XSH were cancelled. The construction of
the Jinhe interchange was delayed when SPTD had difficulty in reaching agreement with the local
government authority on the interchange design concept. When it appeared that the interchange work could
not be completed by the original closing date, SPTD decided to do this work using local funds.
It was agreed during the October 1999 supervision mission that the telecommunications system under XSH
would be included in the electrical and mechanical (E&M) systems for the THH. During the September
2002 mission, however, it was agreed that the Bank would not finance the E&M component for the THH
because of a delay in procurement and a cost overrun for civil works.
3.5 Quiality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory overall. The assessnment was based on: (i) the consistency of project
objectives with China's priorities for the sector; (ii) attention given during project preparation to lessons of
experience, including the past performance of the implementing agencies; (iii) the importance given to
following Bank policy, particularly those related to environmental, resettlement, and road-safety aspects;
and (iv) technology transfer and quality assurance. As with most Bank-financed projects of that period, the
performance indicators were not explicitly developed (no baseline and benchmark figures established); they
were retrofitted in the project later, however, during project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite some delay in implementation, the project objeclives were substantially met, and the achievement of
the project objectives is assessed as satisfactory.
A. Support the continuing development of road infrastructure
The physical components -- construction of five high-grade highways and the upgrading of a highway -
have been achieved. The congestion along the project-targeted corridors was relieved, and accessibility to
important archeological and cultural sites improved greatly. However, the economic return of one of the
highways, the THH, is much lower than anticipated at appraisal because the traffic volumes are much
lower than expected and the construction costs much higher. Three highways, WTE, LXH and LTWMH,
have a lower economic return than expected because of cost overruns. FJTH has achieved the economic
return as expected.
-3 -



B. Assist in aleviating poverty in poor areas
The RIPA component -- improvement and new construction of about 3,900 km of rural roads -- has
enhanced the economic development in poor rural areas. The gross output value of agriculture and industry
(GOVAI) per capita in the affected counties increased from Y 1,770 in 1992 to Y 2,730 in 2002
(approximately a 35 percent increase).
C. Promote development of institutional capabilities
The capacity of highway sector institutions has improved. Through overseas training and study tours and
participation in studies and supervision during project implementation, the SPTD's staff received
satisfactory exposure to new concepts and incentives to leam new practices and technical approaches. The
findings of the Xian Bypass Study were useful and were incorporated into the Asian Development Bank
(ADB)-funded Xian Urban Development Project. The findings of the highway maintenance study also were
found to be useful and helped the province modernize its maintenance management and operation.
D. Increase the safety of road transport
The road safety component had six subcomponents, including a pilot program of blackspot improvements.
The road safety program raised awareness of the importance of road safety and contributed to its
improvement. However, much remains to be done so that measures to reduce traffic accidents are
implemented in a sustainable manner.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Construction of five high-grade highways (US$304.0 million, Staff Appraisal Report ISARI;
US$364.4 million, Implementation Completion Report [ICRI)
This component is rated as satisfactory overall. Field inspection at completion showed that the construction
quality of the five high-grade highways is above average. Finishing details, including landscaping and
environmental improvement along the routes, received adequate attention.
WTE (US$105.3 million, SAR; US$97.8 million, ICR). The WTE opened to traffic on October 1, 1999.
The easternmost 6.1 km section connecting Shaanxi and Henan provinces, which was considered critical
for achieving the full economic benefits of the project, was completed and opened to traffic on December
19, 2001. The delay in completion was due to the delay in project implementation on the Henan side.
Buildings for toll plazas at six interchanges were completed at the same time that civil works were
completed (October 1, 1999). However, rest areas and administration offices were completed later, in
December 2002. The original designs for telecommunications and toll collection systems for WTE were
completed in 1995. SPTD, however, taking into consideration the recent development of technology for
these systems, decided to integrate these systems into the provincial high-grade highway network as one
comprehensive system, and designs were revised. The installation of telecommunications and tolling
systems commenced in October 2002 and will be completed by August 2003.
THH (US$149.6 million, SAR; US$196.6 million, ICR). THH included construction of a 73.6 km
four-lane highway between Tongchuan and Huangling and the doubling of the existing two-lane highway
between Yaoxian and Tongchuan (18.4 km). Civil works for THH commenced in March 1998 and were
completed in April 2001, when the highway was opened to traffic. Building works, including four toll
stations and two administration offices, also were completed in April 2001. Two parking areas (Zhifong
and Yijun) and a service area (Huang ling) were completed in October 2001. The installation of lights and
ventilation systems in tunnels was included in the original civil works contracts and was completed when
- 4 -



civil works were completed. The installation of telecommunications, tolling, and monitoring systems will
commence in June 2003 and will be completed in June 2004.
LXH (US$30.4 million, SAR; US$41.9 million, ICR). LXH opened to traffic in June 1999. The building
works included the Lantian toll station, Helongkou maintenance office, and Muhuguan tunnel management
office; all were completed by June 1999.
LTWMH (US$2.3 million, SAR; US$4.1 million, ICR). LTWMH was completed in March 1998 but was
not opened to traffic until October 1999. The installation of toll collection and lighting systems, which was
not completed until September 1999, delayed the opening of the highway. The telecommunications and
tolling systems are covered under the contract for WTE and also commenced in October 2002 to be
completed by August 2003.
FJTH (US$16.4 million, SAR; US$24.0 million, ICR). The highway was opened to traffic in April 1999.
Additional works, including overpass bridges, were completed by end-April 2000. Building works,
including two toll stations at both ends of FJTH, commenced in August 1998 and were completed in April
1999. Works for telecommunications and toll collection systems commenced in August 2000 and were
completed by April 2001.
B. Upgrading of XSH (US$13.7 million, SAR; US$ 12.7 million, ICR)
The upgrading of XSH to an access-controlled expressway originally included 26 subprojects. Twenty-four
of these were completed by December 1998, and Bank funding for two components (Jinhe interchange and
telecommunications) was dropped. Construction of the Jinhe interchange commenced in November 2001
and was completed in November 2002. Works for telecommunications will be carried out together with
E&M works for THH.
C. Construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of three linking roads (costs included in the main
high-grade highway component)
Because these roads were short, they were included under the contracts of the related sections of the
high-grade highways. These roads were completed at the same time that the main carriageways were
completed.
D. Construction supervision of high-grade highways (US$103 million, SAR; US$11.5 million, ICR)
The construction supervision of the high-g,rade highways was satisfactory. It was carried out by a joint
supervision team of local engineers and international consulting engineers. The joint supervision team
approach, with international consulting engineering firns playing a catalytic role, proved effective in
improving quality and helped the local counterparts appreciate the importance of quality control and
assurance.
E. RIPA (US$65.1 million, SAR; US$111.9 million, ICR)
The RIPA component consisted of the improvement and new construction bf 31 roa(d systems in 32
counties with a total length of 3,919 km. The general assessment is that the improvement of rural roads has
significantly improved access to remote areas and expanded growth opportunities in poor areas of the
province. The impact of this component was rated as highly satisfactory by local officials, who stressed
that the communities served by the roads have seen their living standards improve and access to education
and health and social services enhanced.
-5 -



F. Provision of equipment (US$15.8 million, SAR; US$13.7 million, ICR)
Equipment required for the operation and maintenance of the high-grade highways, construction quality
control, highway research, environmental monitoring, maintenance of the existing highway network,
institutional strengthening, and equipment for highway safety were procured satisfactorily. All the
equipment purchased under the project has been fully utilized.
G. Road safety (US$1.3 million, SAR; US$6.2 million, ICR)
The five-area approach that the road safety component adopted (institutional set-up, training, study,
equipment, and blackspot improvement program) was implemented satisfactorily. The accident analysis
study was completed by December 2001. An accident analysis computer program was completed and
installed by July 2001. The highway safety audits and implementation report were completed by July 2001.
The program is being implemented gradually by the Shaanxi High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau
(SHGHAB) and the HAB. The blackspot remedial program, consisting of civil works, signs and markings
at 15 locations, was completed by December 2001. The driver training study was completed in 1998 and
has been implemented fully. The final report of an independent evaluation of the implementation of the
traffic safety component was completed in November 2002, and it is confinned that the road safety
component was completed satisfactorily.
H. Institutional strengthening and training (US$ 2.4 million, SAR; US$ 2.1 million, ICR)
Training. The overseas and domestic training programs were completed satisfactorily. The training
program proved to be a very effective tool in transferring technology and management know-how and gave
staff exposure to new concepts and modem construction procedures. A total of 3,162 persons received
2,782 person-months of domestic training. One hundred six persons received 106 person-months of training
abroad, and 45 persons participated in the study tour abroad (for 30 person-months). The training covered
a wide range of subjects related to planning, design, supervision management and operation of highways,
environmental monitoring, financial management, and road safety. On-the-job training and technology
transfer were provided during the construction period by the foreign supervision engineers.
Xian Bypass Study. The study was completed in July 1997. It investigated the various altemative
aligmnents and recommended the preferred alternative. The findings of the study served as a basis for the
development of the second Xian Ring Road, which is now under construction.
Highway Maintenance Study. This study, covering the organization of highway maintenance,
mechanization of highway maintenance operations, improved collection and analysis of traffic volume data,
and a pavement management system, was completed in February 2001, with assistance from an Australian
consulting firm. The study made recommendations for improving maintenance methods and techniques in
the province. Some of the recommendations have been implemented and have contributed to the
introduction of market mechanisms in highway maintenance.
Additional technical studies. At SPTD's request, the following four additional teclnical studies were
conducted during project implementation:
* Loess embankment treatment by dynamic compaction
* Management system for high-grade highway construction projects
* Comprehensive treatment for landslides
* Stability of high slopes in loess and rock conditions and their treatment measures.
All four studies were completed in June 2002. They helped SPTD enhance its technical capabilities and
design of highways in mountainous terrain.
- 6 -



I. Safeguard policy
Environmental protection. Major environnmental impacts of this project include noise and air pollution
during construction and operation. Impacts also includecd the alteration of hydrological regimes, soil erosion
and its impacts on the local ecology, impacts on cultural relics, and the problems associated with the
haulage of construction materials during construction. During construction, mitigating measures were
implemented for air, noise, and water pollution and soil erosion. Considerable efforts were made to protect
the environment and minimize social disruption and accidents during the haulage of construction materials,
as agreed in the Environmental Action Plan (EAP).
Because highway construction for the THH, which is in a mountainous area, involved many cutting
sections, slope protection and the disposal of excavated soil were of serious concemn for SPTD and the local
communities. Four kinds of grasses were chosen carefully through an on-site experiment of 15,000 square
meters and were planted along the highway alignment. The huge amount of soil that was excavated was
used to create 1,000 mu of land for local farmers' use. No unforeseen adverse environmental problem
arose. Monitoring of air and water quality, noise, lead content of soil, and crops and herbage according to
the EAP was carried out regularly. The latest monitoring report confinned that the noise levels in the
residential areas were lower than the standards required both during the day and at night; air quality did not
worsen and that it met standards; and the highways did not cause any significant negative impact on water
in rivers along the highways.
The protection of cultural heritage was handled well. For example, during the subgrade excavation along
WTE, cultural relics of the Old Stone Age were found. The contractor, in accordance with the EAP and
local regulations, suspended construction immediately and informed the relevant cultural relics authority of
this discovery. Construction was resumed after the authority preserved the relics.
Land acquisition and resettlement. The six high-grade highways (including XSH) had to meet land
acquisition and resettlement requirements, for which ten external monitoring reports were submitted to the
Bank. The final monitoring report states that the land acquired exceeded the estimated figures in the
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) by 9.5 percent, the floor space of demolished houses exceeded estimates
by 13 percent, and the total resettlement cost exceeded the estimate by 1 percent. The resettlement
assessment undertaken in 2002 found that despite minor issues with reduced compensation payments, the
livelihood of all the project-affected people have been r estored or improved. The compensation rates that
had been reduced were later adjusted to take account of the Bank's comments.
The 152 segments of rural roads, a total of 3,919 kn, are scattered in 249 townships in 32 counties in
Shaanxi Province. Although no monitoring was done during implementation, a resettlement assessment was
undertaken by an independent monitor in 2002. The results indicated that minor adverse impacts on the
project-affected people have been rectified and the benefits of the RIPA program were appreciated by the
rural population, including those adversely affected.
All resettlement objectives -- restoration or improvement of income, livelihood, and productivity of the
affected people -- have been met. All activities in the RAP, including the rehabilitation program, have been
completed. The Banks resettlement policies were followed during resettlement implementation and the task
team was satisfied with the outcome of the resettlement assessment. The impacts of the high-grade
highways and RIPA are summarized in the following table.



Major Items               High-Grade Highways            RIPA
Planned       Actual      Planned    Actual
Land acquisition (mu)                   14,818         16,229     5,806      4,767
House demolition (sq. m)               59,955          67,531    24,848     23,316
Project-affected people                17,730*         14,226     3,780      3,040
Total resettlement cost (Y million)    394.63          399.65     30.62      26.51
*The number of project-affected people was estimated on the high side on the basis of 1.08 mu per capita
before land acquisition in the project area, while the land-holding capacity after land acquisition is now 1.35
mu per capita.
4.3 Net Present Valte/Economic rate of return:
The economic evaluation comprised two components: the high-grade highways (six subcomponents,
including XSH) and RIPA (152 subcomponents carried out in four phases). The economic evaluation
covers all subcomponents as well as the entire project. The detailed economic analysis is in Annex 3.
The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the high-grade highways is estimated at 13.1 percent,
compared to the SAR estimate of 16.0 percent; the net present value (NPV), at a discount rate of 12
percent, is estimated at Y 408.2 million. The recalculated EIRR and NPV are lower than anticipated at
appraisal mainly because of substantial increases in project costs and lower traffic for one of the six roads
than projected in the SAR. The results are summarized in the following table.
EIRR (in %) AND NPV (12%, Y million) OF HGH
SAR                ICR
EIRR    NPV       EIRR     NPV
1. Weinan-Tongguan Expressway         16.7    --        15.6   465.5
2. Tongchuan - Huangling Highway      16 3     --        8 7   (515 2)
3. Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Highway     14.3    --        12.6     25.9
4. Lintong - Warriors Museum Highway  14 7     --       13 0      5.2
5. Famensi - Tangyu Highway           12 6     --       18.4    197 5
6. Xian - Sanyuan Highway              --     --        290     168 1
Total                  16.0    --        13.1    408.2
The EIRR for RIPA is estimated at 16.7 percent compared to the SAR estimate of 15.0 percent, and the
NPV, at a discount rate of 12 percent, is estimated to be Y 531.6 million. The EIRR stated in the SAR
covered only phase 1 of the program, while the EIRR for the ICR covers all four phases. The results are
summarized in the following table.
EIRR AND NPV OF RIPA
EIRR (in %)          NPV (12%, Y million)
SAR        ICR           SAR          ICR
Phase 1      15.0      16.2           --          34.3
Phase2       --        15.1           --         218.0
Phase 3      --        24.7           --         502.8
Phase 4      --         9.2                      (36.4)
Total        -        16.7           -           531.6
The EIRR for the entire project (high-grade highways and RIPA) is estimated at 14.1 percent, compared
with 15.8 percent estimated in the SAR. The NPV is Y 939.8 million. The following tables summarizes the
results.



EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y billion) Total Project
SAR                ICR
EIRR    NPV        EIRR    NPV
HGH        16.0    --        13.1    408.2
RIPA       15.0    --        16.7    531.6
Total    15.8    -          14.1    939.8
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial evaluation of the project comprises three sections. Section 1 assesses the revenue-earning
entity (high-grade highways, tolled roads); Section 2 assesses the non-revenue-earning entity (RIPA,
non-tolled roads), and Section 3 assesses the financial capacity of SPTD to sustain highway activities. The
detailed financial analysis is in Annex 3. There was no financial evaluation in the SAR.
For the revenue-earning entity, the results of the financial evaluation show that the FIRR for the high-grade
highways, which constitute about 62 percent of the total project investment, is expected to be 3.7 percent.
The NPV (at a 5.0 percent discount rate) would be Y 696.9 million.
For the non-revenue-earning entities (i.e., RIPA -- about 38 percent of total project investment), the
financial evaluation, given the nature of financial risks on those investments, focuses on the availability of
sufficient counterpart funds and the operating expenses. All the indicators show that the financial risks are
modest.
4.5 Institutional developnment impact:
The overall institutional development impact was positive. A significant transfer of klowledge and
technology took place during project implementation. Significant numbers of staff were trained through
foreign and domestic studies and tours. Local engineers, with foreign experts, supervised the construction
of high-grade highways using the FIDIC (Intemational Federation of Consulting Engineers) contractual
approach. This implementation arrangement helped raise the quality of the civil works and enabled the
transfer of know-how. Experience with competitive bidcling was enhanced through the use of contracting
firms. The findings and recommendations of the highway maintenance study promote the introduction of
market mechanisms into highway maintenance operations, primarily through maintenance by contract, in
Shaanxi and enhance the mechanization of maintenance operations to improve the quality and efficiency of
maintenance work.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of governmentt or implementing agencv:
Adverse climate conditions. In 1998, exceptional flooding caused serious damage to RIPA roads in
southern Shaanxi. This was especially serious in the five counties of Shang Lou Prelecture. In Dang Fang
County, 2,000 mm of rain fell in 6 hours -- a world record. About 42 km of roads partially disappeared,
with nothing left of the alignment. Damage to the RIPA road systems was estimated at about Y 166
million. The Bank agreed to allocate additional sums of US$5.3 million in 1999 and US$7.0 million in
2000 for rehabilitation, repairs and reinforcement.
Landslide-prone areas. At the design stage, it was foreseen that construction in the mountainous sections
for THH would be extremely difficult because of the many long tunnels and long bridges and a viaduct.
When construction commenced, the proposed alignment was discovered to traverse two landslide-prone
-9-



areas. Thus, substantial changes to the design of protection works were made. The Bank provided no
objection to the variations due to geological conditions that could not reasonably have been expected to be
foreseen according to FIDIC Clause 12.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to governnzent countrol:
Coordination between SPTD and traffic police. Outcomes for the road safety component were mixed.
The expected reduction in traffic accidents subsequent to the opening of the two-lane Class 2 highways
(FJTH and LXH) did not materialize. However, accidents on the divided four-lane highways (THH and
WTE) were reduced by about half. Improving road safety requires coordinated action in engineering,
education, and enforcement. The Provincial Communication Departnent can work only on what falls under
its responsibility - the engineering aspects. With the guidance of higher levels of goverrunent, good
cooperation between the Provincial Communication Departnent and the traffic police, who are in charge of
enforcement and education, needs to be established.
Coordination between Shaanxi and Henan Provinces. The completion of construction of the
Yangjin-Baijiazhui connection in Henan Province, originally scheduled for end-1999, was delayed.
Therefore, although WTE opened to traffic on October 1, 1999, the connection with the Henan section was
deferred until December 2001.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agentcy control:
Insufficient geotechnical investigation and inadequate design. A huge number of major design changes
and variations were made, particularly in the mountainous sections with adverse geological conditions,
which contributed to cost overruns. The main reasons for these design changes and variations are: (i)
insufficient geotechnical investigations and boring tests at the design stage; (ii) insufficient and inaccurate
detailed topographical surveys; and (iii) inadequate designs based on the inaccurate infonnation and data.
Delay in implementation of THH. Commencement of the THH project was delayed by eight months
because of the late approval of the bid evaluation and the late completion of resettlement activities. In spite
of the remarkable volume of earthworks and number of long tunnels, SPTD tried to complete the project by
the original target date (December 31, 2000). However, because of landslides during construction, SPTD
succeeded in shortening the construction period by only three months. THH opened to traffic on April 29,
2001. Because withdrawals from the loan were not expected to be completed by the original closing date,
the closing date was extended by one year to December 31, 2002.
Most E&M works deleted from Bank financing. The Bank loan originally covered E&M works for
WTE, THH, LXH, and XSH. However, during implementation the Bank and SPTD agreed that the Bank
would not finance the E&M work component, except for those for FJTH, for the following reasons: (i)
SPTD decided to integrate the telecommunications and tolling system for WTE into one comprehensive
system for the provincial high-grade highway network and the timing of procurement did not fit SPTD's
time frame; (ii) because the cost overruns for civil works for THH and XSH were substantial, SPTD
preferred that the Bank finance the cost overruns rather than E&M works, which could not be completed by
the loan closing date; and (iii) SPTD could not afford to spend two years to procure and install the E&M
works for LXH. The monitoring system in a tunnel was installed after the civil works were completed.
Lower compensation rates. As discussed in section 4.2, lower compensation rates were paid to farmers
for acquired land than agreed to in the RAP. The Bank requested SPTD to correct the noncompliance with
the RAP. SPTD accepted the Bank's recommendations and the Bank agreed with the revised compensation
rates and SPTD's follow-up actions.
- 10 -



Two implementing agencies. The Bank recommended early during implementation that SPTD assign one
chief engineer to the entire project to preserve uniformity in supervision procedures and enhance the
efficiency of supervision services, as well as to ease the management of foreign experts, and speed and
quality of reporting to the Bank. However, SHGHAB was in charge of THH and XSH, and Project
Execution Office (PEO) was in charge of four other high-grade highways. During the supervision missions,
each office separately submitted a summary progress report on its own responsibility, and weak
coordination between these two agencies was observed.
5.4 Costs andfintanicing:
At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$5:56.5 million (including contingencies of US$90.5
million), of which US$210.0 million equivalent was from the Bank loan. The total actual cost of the project
is estimated at US$ 574.0 million. The civil works for the five high-grade highways, including E&M work
and buildings, were estimated to cost US$304.0 million at appraisal, whereas the actual cost is
approximately US$364.4 million -- an increase of about 20 percent. Because of the substantial increase in
the cost of civil works, and the expansion of the RIPA component, the total actual cost of the project
increased by 23 percent over the estimated cost at appraisal without contingencies.
Substantial cost overruns in civil works for the five high-grade highways were incurrecl because of adverse
geological and geographical conditions in mountainous areas. However, it is understood that if more
detailed geotechnical investigations (including boring tests for tunnels) and detailed topographical surveys
had been conducted, the design changes could have been minimized. Consequently, the expected Bank
financing ratio of 37.7 percent at appraisal was reduced to 36.6 percent at completion.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is likely to be sustainable when the achievements made under each of the components are
considered, and sustainability is enhanced by the continued efforts of SPTD.
*   The completion of five high-grade highways has supported the development of road infrastructure
to relieve congestion, improve access to important archeological and cultural sites, and improve the
efficiency of road transport in the province. The quality of the civil works of the five highways was
satisfactory;
*   The RIPA component greatly contributed to alleviating poverty in the poor areas. The criteria,
screening, and selection process for the RIPA program will be used by the local authorities as a
reference for future programs;
*   The Highway Maintenance Study has led to a remarkable transfer of technology to local staff. The
study provided important input for the introduction of market mechanisms in highway maintenance
operations, especially through maintenance by contract; and
*   Under a pilot program of blackspot improvements, 15 locations were improved. Blackspot
improvement will become routine work for the highway authority. The procedures established for
identifying and analyzing blackspots, the criteria for selecting improvement measures, and
implementation programming will be good for SPTD's future programs. However, efforts must be
pursued in pedestrian and driver education and traffic enforcement, which recluire more
coordination between PCD and the traffic police.
-11 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The five high-grade highways were opened to traffic on the following dates:
WTE            October 1999
THH            April 2001
LXH            June 1999
LTWMH          October 1999
FJTH           April 1999
The operation and maintenance of these highways have been generally satisfactory except for the slower
than expected increase in traffic on LXH and THH.
Under the Driver Training Study, completed in December 1998, senior- and middle-level driver training
courses were developed in cooperation with the Shaanxi Provincial Traffic Training School and the
Shaanxi Provincial Skills Training School. These courses have become popular in China and are used in
other provinces such as Anhui, Fujian, and Shanxi. More than 10,000 drivers have taken these courses
since June 1999.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
At the identification stage, the task team ensured that the project objectives and scope were consistent with
both the government's priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy. In particular, the sector issues
addressed under the project were selected from among the priorities identified in a Bank sector strategy
report, Highway Development and Management Issues, Options, and Strategies (February 1994).
Bank assistance in project preparation was highly satisfactory. The Bank assigned a highly qualified team
to the project with an appropriate skill mix, including experts in areas of engineering, environment,
resettlement, road safety, highway maintenance, procurement, institutional development, training, and other
fields of specialization. The preparation of the project served to transfer teclnical knowledge to the Chinese
counterparts.
Appraisal was satisfactory. The SAR assessment of the Government's commitment to the project and of the
implementing agencies' capacity during negotiations was on the mark. The economic analysis indicated that
it would be economically feasible to construct five highways as proposed and to operate them as toll roads,
with the exceptions of LTWMH and FJTH, with lower traffic growth. The main risks were identified
correctly: (i) a delay in completing the connection between Shaanxi and Henan provinces; (ii) a delay in
completing highways as a consequence of design changes; and (iii) nonrealization of traffic projections,
with less diversion to the new highways from existing roads. Although a comprehensive monitoring plan for
project objectives and implementation was established, indicators to measure these (baseline and
benchmark figures) were not developed during project preparation.
7.2 Supervision:
During the first four years after project launch in June 1996, the task manager changed four times, and the
continuity of staff was not maintained. However, Bank supervision performance during implementation
was consistent and satisfactory. The project had a very ambitious scope. Every time the task team
supervised the project, it had to recruit consultants to supervise the RIPA project and look after the
- 12 -



technical studies and the road safety component. Bank involvement was critical to the technical studies, for
which staff provided useful advice in improving their quality. Resettlement and environment staff provided
specialized reviews during the critical phases of the project.
The task team showed responsiveness and flexibility in approving needed design changes and
modifications. During the construction of the high-grade highways, many variation orders were issued. The
task team regularly invited a construction expert to participate in missions. It reviewed the proposed design
changes and variations and helped the client divide them into three categories -- provisional sum, day work,
and variations.
7.3 Overall Bank perjbormance:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The supervision team paid adequate attention to project
compliance with Bank policies on resettlement and environment. The flexibility of Bank supervision staff
helped to enrich the quality of the project by allowing the desired variations.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation was highly satisfactory. Both the central government and the implementing
agencies were highly committed to the project from the start. Their commitment was evidenced in their
well-documented preparation work for this very complex project. Recognizing the importance of sector
reforn, SPTD cooperated well with foreign assistance to develop the RIPA, highway maintenance, and
road safety components.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The central government supported the project throughout its implementation. SDPC and the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) supported the inclusion of a very challenging RIPA component of about 3,900 km
to alleviate poverty in the province. The RIPA component made remarkable achievements, especially
considering that the central government was reluctant to borrow from the Bank for a component that did
not raise revenue. MOC helped implement capacity building measures by coordinating training activities,
particularly the overseas training and study tours.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall project management was satisfactory. SPTD swiftly adapted the project to changing circumstances
and suggested changes accordingly. THH, one of the five high-grade highways, was implemented by
SHGHAB, and the other four highways by PEO. The coordination between the two implementing agencies
could have been improved with stronger leadership from the management of SPTD. The most noteworthy
achievement of this project was the timely completion of the 3,900-km RIPA component.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory. Both beneficiaries and the central government
showed their commitment to the project and followed through to ensure its suiccessful implementation and
operation.
- 13 -



8. Lessons Learned
A. Complexity of project scope
The major project components included five high-grade highways (totalling 240 km) in five locations; the
upgrading of a 32 km class 1 highway; the improvement and new construction of about 3,900 km rural
roads; a road safety program with six subcomponents; and institutional strengthening and training
consisting of two technical studies (Xian Bypass Study and Highway Maintenance Study) and a training
program. The project tried to address all the key transport sector issues in China. During preparation phase
in 1994 and 1995, SPTD was keen to develop the proposed components, but soon it was overwhelmed with
other projects funded by ADB, Japan Bank for International Cooperation, Kuwait Fund, and other financial
institutions. The agency was overstretched in its capacity to implement various projects and experienced
severe shortage of qualified staff. Most of the technical studies and software components were entrusted to
outside consulting firms and hence did not help to strengthen the institutional capacity of SPTD. Policy
reforms remained focused on specific subjects, and were scaled up for a broader impact.
B. Success of RIPA program
The RIPA program demonstrated positive contribution towards poverty alleviation and in providing a basic
(all-weather) road access for social services and markets. A report prepared by SPTD and Shanglao
Prefecture Communications Bureau described the lessons learned from the implementation of the RIPA
component and documented its social and economic benefits, as sumunarized below:
Social Beneflt             1995     2001 (at completion)
Regular bus service to 200 townships   81 %           100 M.
Road accessibility to 2,858 villages   72 %           95 '%,
Average annual per capita income       Y 450         Y 1,066
Rate of timely accessible health service  40 %        85 %
Rate of entrance to middle school      45 %           81 "M,
Other provincial govemment agencies, however, have refrained from borrowing for RIPA-like components
in succeeding Bank projects because no dedicated revenue source for loan repayment can easily be
identified, unlike for toll roads. The Bank continues to support road development in low-income areas
under future lending and non-lending services , but is should be recognized that a RIPA-type component
demands extensive supervision. The supervising of almost four thousand kilometers of rural roads spread
over 32 counties was a difficult task. Procurement for these road works was through 218 contracts
representing national competitive bidding procedures (33), small works (96), and force account (89).
Signed contracts were post-reviewed except for two contracts for each procurement method at the initial
stage of implementation.
C. Number of design changes and variations
The technical complexity of highway construction and operation was underestimated. This component
experienced substantial cost overruns. Design changes and variations could have been avoided or
minimized if designs had been based on more accurate topographic maps and results of geotechnical
investigations and boring tests during the project preparation. Because of cost increases for civil works (as
well as the delayed procurement for E&M works), a large share of the loan was used to cover civil works
- 14-



components than was planned. As a result, Bank funds intended for the proposed E&M works were
diverted to WTE and THH construction..
D. Monitoring indicators
During appraisal, a number of monitoring indices for implementation progress and project objectives were
established for seven project components. However, these indicators were not suppoited by baseline and/or
benchmark numbers. During project implementation, the task team discussed with SPTD the indicators that
could be easily measured and sustained, and established a new set of indicators.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inzplenzenting agency:
A. General
1.     This report summarizes the implementation experience of the Second Shaanxi Highway Project
partly financed by an IBRD Loan.
B. Project description
2.     Project objectives are to:
a.  Support continuing development of road infrastructure to relieve congestion, improve access
to important archeological and tourist sites, facilitate mobility and increase the efficiency of
road transport in the interest of stimulating economic activity in Shaanxi.
b.  Assist in the implementation of policies to alleviate poverty in the pooIr areas of the province;
c.  Promote development of institutional capabilities of SPTD, through training and other means;
and
d.  Increase the safety of road transport.
3.     The scope of the project includes:
a.  Construction of five high-grade highways comprising:
i.  A 78.1 km four-lane expressway between Weinan and Tongguan (WTE);
ii.  A 73. 6 km four-lane Class I highway between Tongchuan and Huangling (THH) and
doubling of the existing two-lane Class I highway between Yaoxian and Tongchuan
(18.4 km);
iii. A 48.3 km two-lane Class II auto-only highway connecting Lantian and Xiaoshangyuan
(LXH);
iv. A 5.9 km two-lane Class II auto-only highway coinecting Lintong and the Terra Cotta
Warriors Museum (LTWMH); and
v.  A 34.8 km two-lane Class II auto-only highway between Fameii Buddhist Temple and
Jiangzhuang; and between Jiangzlhuang and Tangyu (FJTH).
b.  Upgrading of Xian-Sanyuan Class I highway (XSH) through providing access control, and
installing traffic safety devices, etc.;
- 15-



c.  Improvement and new construction of about 3,900 km of rural roads to help alleviate poverty
(RIPA) in poor counties in Shaanxi;
d.  Provision of equipment for:
i.  Control of construction quality and for monitoring of the environment;
ii.  Operation and maintenance of the high-grade highways;
iii. Maintenance of the Shaanxi provincial highway network; and
iv. Institutional strengthening of SPTD and related institutions and the traffic police.
e.  A road safety component to help reduce accidents on Shaanxi's highways; and
f.  Institutional strengthening, training and two studies (Xian Bypass and highway maintenance
studies).
C. Achievement of the objectives
4.     The project has attained all major objectives through successful implementation of the project
components:
a.  Five high-grade highways with a total length of 259 km and three linking roads with a total
length of 8.2 km were satisfactorily completed. The number of domestic tourists who visited
the Terra Cotta Warriors Museum increased from 1,738,000 in 1992 to 2,942,000 in 2001,
while the intemational tourists increased from 357,000 in 1992 to 1,795,000 in 2001. Thus,
the project has basically reached expected targets. The construction according to FIDIC
conditions was undertaken in 1985 when the XSH, the first World Bank-financed highway
project in Shaanxi was constructed. This construction management has been expanded and
adopted for other highway projects in Shaanxi. This became common practice in management
of highway construction in Shaanxi.
b.  The upgrading of the XSH was satisfactorily completed, which resulted in a remarkable
decrease in traffic accidents from 29 times in 1995 with the casualty of 23 persons and the
economic loss of Y 128,000 to 16 times in 2000 with the casualty of 13 persons and the
economic loss of Y 63,000.
c.  The RIPA program with a total length of 3,919 km has been satisfactorily completed. The
infrastructure in the poor area appears to be obviously improved and the social and economic
benefits were enhanced.
d.  The intemational construction supervision services totaled 162.11 person-months and local
supervision services totaled 12,432 person-months. By jointly working with foreign experts,
local engineers' awareness of construction quality was enhanced.
e.  Environmental monitoring was undertaken 60 times in total during the construction period
(twice a month), and 30 times during the operation period (once a month). The assessment of
enviromnental aspects has been rated the project satisfactory.
- 16 -



f.  The implementation of subprojects under the road safety study has been satisfactorily
completed. The outcomes of the subprojects such as driver training, improvement of
blackspots, preparation of a road safety manual, development of software dealing with traffic
accidents management and analysis contributed greatly to reducing the traffic accidents on the
upgraded and newly constructed roads. The software on traffic accidents management and
analysis developed became standard in Henan, Xinjiang, and Jiangxi.
g.  A total of 17 overseas training and study tours courses totaling 131.2 person-months were
implemented. Through overseas study/training, the local managerial and technical staff gained
experience in expressway planning, design, construction, financing, financial auditing, and
maintenance management.
h.  The procurement of equipment for a central laboratory and highway operation and
maintenance for the related agencies was successfully completed. With this equipment, the
mechanized maintenance of the expressways has been improved and the capacity of checking
and testing was enhanced.
i.  The study on Xian Bypass was completed by the end of 1997. The outcomes of the study
contributed a lot to the route selection of the Xian Bypass and promoted the implementation
of the bypass project.
j. The study of highway maintenance was successfully completed. The outcomes of the study
played a very important role in development of modem highway maintenance methods, the
acceleration of the mechanized maintenance, the improved data collection and analysis of
traffic volume, development of pavement management system, and the reformn of the highway
maintenance system.
D. Project formulation and preparation
5.     By April 5, 1995, SDPC and Shaanxi Provincial Planning Commission approved the project
proposal for the Second Shaanxi Highway Project. By October 28, 1996, SDPC and MOC approved a
prefeasibility study for the project.
6.     Starting with the Bank's identification mission in October 1994, the World Bank was involved in
the preparation of the project. In March/April 1994, the World Bank preparation mission reviewed the
feasibility study reports, environmental evaluation reports, and the regional traffic anid econiomic
information.
7.     In July 1995, the Bank's appraisal mission reviewed and discussed additional documents provided
during the preappraisal mission. Experts funded by the Italian Trust Fund were also invited to review the
designs and bidding documents.
8.    . In January 1996, the loan was negotiated in Washington. The Loan Agreement and the Project
Agreement for the Second Shaanxi Highway Project for US$210 million were signed on April 17, 1996.
E. Project implementation
9.     The loan became effective on July 16, 1996, and the experience gained during the implementation
of the project is summarized below by component.
- 17 -



10.    High-grade highways and linking roads. The construction of total 259 km high-grade highway
was implemented using 17 international competitive bidding (ICB) civil works contracts and the
construction of three linking roads was included in corresponding contracts. Construction of high-grade
highways commenced in March 1997, except that of THH (commenced in March 1998) and was completed
by October 1999 except THH (completed in April 2001). During the construction, the employer paid much
attention to important nodes and quality control. The employer, together with the designer and foreign and
local engineers carried out construction supervision and approved variation orders including the
replacement of the embankment material from the loess to the sand gravel; lime earth treatment for the
upper course of the sub grade; anchorage works to stabilize side slopes of the THH and LXH; the design
change from at-grade intersection to grade separations, additional underpasses, slide treatment works and
drainage works to the FJTH. In addition, efforts were made to replace the back-filling materials at
abutment of all bridges, culverts and underpasses.
11.    XSH. The upgrading works of a total of 32 km of highway was divided into 26 contract sections,
of which 24 sections commenced in October 1997 and were completed by the end of 1998. Because of
change of design concept, two contracts including an interchange and telecommunications system were not
implemented together with other 24 contracts. SPTD decided to finance these contracts by domestic funds.
Construction of an interchange started in November 2001 and completed in November 2002. Installation of
telecommunication system commenced in August 2002 and will be completed in October 2003.
12.    RIPA. The RIPA program consists of 31 road systems with 152 road sections, divided into 218
contracts located in 32 counties. Works started in October 1996 and were completed in October 2000. The
total length covered under RIPA was 3,919 km with an investnent of Y 645.96 million. In 1998 and 1999,
Shaanxi province was stricken by severe flooding, and some sections of completed roads were washed
away. The Bank approved additional financing for rehabilitation of the damaged roads.
13.    Equipment procurement The equipment procurement was implemented in two stages: the first
stage started in 1996 and was completed in 1998 with total costs of US$8.31 million (of which US$1.44
million was used for imported equipment). The second stage started in December 2000 and was completed
by March 2002. The cost of procurement totaled US$4.058 million. The equipment procured was for
high-grade highways operation and maintenance.
14.    Ventilation and illumination system for tunnels. THH has seven tunnels, and the longest one is
1,700 m. LXH has six tunnels, and the longest one is 1,670 m. Supply and installation of ventilation and
illumination system were included in the contracts for civil works, and were completed at the same time
that the civil works were completed.
15.    E&M work. The original design for telecommunications and the toll system were completed in
1995. However, considering the technical development in this field, SPTD decided to combine the E&M
systems for high-grade highways as a complete comprehensive system. Original designs were revised.
Because of the delay of revision of design and the bidding procedure, it was expected that the E&M works
would not be completed by the loan closing date. SPTD decided in 1999 that the E&M works of the project
(excluding FJTH) were locally financed. Installation of telecomununications systems for WTE commenced
in October 2002 and will be completed by August 2003. Upon approval by the Bank, the
telecommunications and toll system for FJTH was procured through direct shopping.
- 18 -



16.    Construction supervision. Italconsult provided a total 162.1 person-months input for construction
supervision, including 4 person-months of training service.
17.    Staff training. SPTD and MOC conducted a total 131.2 person-months of overseas training and
study tours with a total cost of US$900,000. The training subjects involved project management,
construction supervision, traffic engineering, environrment. protection, highway planning, maintenance of
high-grade highway, and traffic safety. SPTD also organized 2,782 person-months of domestic training
during the project implementation. The training enriched staff with modem management knowledge on
design, construction, operation, and maintenance for high-grade highways.
18.    Environment monitoring and training. Environmental protection was a key aspect of the project
implementation. The project involved 11 person-months oversees training. The employer entrusted Shaanxi
Provincial and Xi'an Municipal Monitoring Stations with conducting quarterly environmental monitoring
for each subproject.
19.    Land acquisition and resettlement. Land acquisition and resettlement were completed
satisfactorily. In accordance with the RAP, external monitoring was executed by the Shaanxi Provincial
Academy of Social Sciences. The RAP was followed as planned, and living standards and income of people
affected were both improved and increased. Under the six high-grade highways, a total of 16,229 mu land
was acquired, affecting directly 2,947 households covering 14,226 people, in which 503 households were
removed and 2,143 population was resettled. A total of 39 enterprises were affected (no removal occurred).
The total compensation for land acquisition and resettlement reached Y 399.6 million, a Y 5 million
increase compared with the originally estimated Y 394.6 million in RAP, or an increase of 1.0 percent.
Under the RIPA program, a total of 4,767 mu land was acquired, about 18 percent less than the estimated
at appraisal. The number of people affected was 3,040, about 20 percent less than estimated at appraisal.
The total costs for land acquisition and resettlement was Y 26.51 million, about Y 4 million less than
estimated.
F. Operation of high-grade highways and RIPA program
20.    Although the traffic volume was not as expected on some highways, the operation of high-grade
highways is generally satisfactory. Traffic accidents on the divided highways (WTE and THH) were
substantially reduced.
a.  WTE: WTE was opened to traffic in October 1999. The annual average daily traffic
(AADT) in 2000 reached 9,999 medium truck equivalent (MTE), and 10,114 MTE in 2001,
and is estimated to be 11,438 MTE in 2002. The toll revenue in 2000 was Y 58.59 million,
while that of 2001 stood at Y 58.98 million.
b.  THH: THH was opened to traffic in April 2001. The AADT in 2001 reached 3,159 MTE,
and in 2002 is estimated to reach 4,000 MTE. The toll revenue in 2001 was Y 29.96 million.
c.  LXH: LXH was opened to traffic in June 1999, with the AADT of 2,231 MTE in 1999.
AADT increased to 3,423 MTE in 2000,3,623 MTE in 2001, and 3,393 MTE in 2002. Toll
revenue was Y 11.75 million in 1999, 29.46 million in 2000, and 30.61 million in 2001.
d.  LTWMH: LTWMH was opened to traffic in October 1999. The AADT reached 1,896 MTE
in 2000, and 2,394 MTE in 2001 and is estimated at 2,528 MTE in 2002. Toll revenue was Y
27.61 million in 2000, and Y 26.87 million in 2001.
- 19-



e.  FJTH: FJTH was opened to traffic in April 1999. The AADT reached 2,172 MTE in 1999,
2,620 MTE in 2000, and 2,863 MTE in 2001 and is estimated at 3,168 MTE in 2002. Toll
revenue was Y 24.05 million in 2000, and Y 24.94 million in 2001.
f   XSH: The upgrading works were completed in October 1998. Traffic safety was enhanced
and traffic conditions were improved. The AADT reached 14,158 MTE in 1999, 16,871
MTE in 2000, and 17,887 MTE in 2001. The AADT in 2002 is estimated at 18,500 MTE.
Toll revenue was Y 69.53 million in 2000 and Y 65.68 million in 2001.
21.    The RIPA program significantly contributed to improving access to the remote areas and
expanding growth opportunities in poor areas in Shaanxi. The local officials and people confirmed that
living standards in communities served by rural roads have been substantially improved and they appreciate
the improved access to education, health, and social services. Since these newly improved roads are
all-weather, much less maintenance works are required.
G. Works by contractors and consultants
22.    Civil works. The civil works of five high-grade highway were divided into 17 contracts and
procured through ICB procedures. Contractors implemented the construction according to the contracts
condition, specifications and the design/drawings. Their works were in general satisfactory. Through efforts
of the employer, the engineer and the contractors, all five high-grade highways were completed and opened
to traffic on due date, with good quality, meeting requirements in the specifications and the contract
agreement. Construction quality of the highways passed the government standards.
23.    Consultant supervision by consultants. The international consultant firn, ItalConsult. S.P.A.
fielded 7 consultants with 162.11 person-months for construction supervision of the high-grade highways.
The consultants together with local engineers paid frequent site visits to ensure the works quality and
progress of the project. They also reviewed payment orders and variation orders and prepared supervision
reports. The finn also carried out domestic training for 75 local engineers, and overseas training for 30
local engineers. Local supervision teams were recruited through bidding among firms with sound
qualifications and good reputations. About 296 local supervision engineers were involved in construction
supervision services for five high-grade highways. All these supervision engineers carried out all-round
management and control for quality, progress, measurement, and payment based on FIDIC conditions.
H. Works by implementation agency
24.    Project preparation and implementation arrangement. Taking into account the complexity of
the project components and the number of subcomponents involved, SPTD formally formed the Project
Execution Office financed by the World Bank under SPTD in January 1996. PEO consisted of several
departments such as the engineering management, finance and planning, equipment procurement, land
acquisition and resettlement, and comprehensive administration and was responsible for bidding,
examination of major variations and claims, land acquisition and resettlement, payment according to the
chief engineer's measurement, reporting to the World Bank, and monitoring the works of the contractor.
Designs of all highways under the project were made by Shaanxi Highway Survey and Design Institute.
During the construction phase, representatives of the design institute were fielded to be responsible for
clarifications of drawing and variations.
- 20 -



25.    Environmental Impact Assessment. Shaanxi Provincial Scientific Institute for Environmental
Protection and Xi'an Highway Transportation University conducted an environunental impact assessme,nt
for each highway according to the state environmental assessment regulations and envirornental protection
method. These regulations and methods required that environmental protection be implemented through
design, construction, and operation phases. hI 1994/1995 the PEO submitted three times the proposed
environmental impact assessment reports and the environmental action plan (EAP) for all six high-grade
highways to the World Bank. In December 1995, the Bank confirmed the EAP. The environmental impact
assessment and EAP of RIPA were submitted to the Bank in October 1995 and cleared by the Bank. The
Employer paid much attention to environmental protection at the designing phase, in the aspects of
alignment selection, road crossing, bridge and culvert, drainage, slope protection, and greening work. At the
construction phase, contractors were requested to properly manage environmental protection, particularly
on waste yard, drainage works, planting, and greening work. The total greening area reached 1,999,700
square meters.
I. Main factors affecting the project
26.    Inaccurate geological investigation and higher cost. Because of the poor geological investigation
at the design stage, numerous unexpected slope collapses and landslides occurred during the construction of
THH, especially at 19 spots, which cost an extra Y 110 million for treatment.
27.    Unfavorable weather conditions. Heavy flooding happened in 1998 and 1999 and exerted serious
damage to the already built RIPA roads in southern Shaanxi. The disaster brought forth serious damage in
five counties, where 42 km of roads washed out completely. Damage resulting from the flood reached Y
166 million. The Bank agreed to finance additional US$5.3 million in 1999 and US$7 million in 2000 for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of works washed out by floods.
28.    Inadequate designs and higher cost. LXH was the first high-grade highway through heavy
mountainous areas in the province. Because of lack of design experience for mountainous highways, the
side slope treatment was not properly designed, so that geological faults often occurred during construction.
To ensure the highway safety during the operation period, additional protection works were undertaken,
which caused costs.
J. Works by the Bank
29.    Preparation of the project. From March 1993 to July 1995, the Bank dispatched four field
missions to Shaanxi to assist in preparing the proposed project. In February 1996, the Bank approved the
project. The appraisal report analyzed the background information and supported the proposed scope of the
project. The Bank reviewed the RAP, EAP, designs and bidding documents, procurement plans, and a
training program.
30.    Project implementation. After the loan agreement became effective in July 1996, the Bank
dispatched two missions a year to supervise the project and monitor the progress on each project
component. The missions were generally satisfied with the perfonnance of SPTD.
31.    Cooperation between the implementing agency and the Bank. Cooperation between the
implementing agency and the Bank was well done. The Bank helped the Employer deal withl the variation
orders and claims raised. The Bank agreed with the increase of side (cut) slope protection works and
reinforcement works, the addition of rehabilitation works under RIPA, and the loan relocation. Under the
-21 -



guidance of Bank staff from the Bank headquarters and its Beijing office, the project was completed
satisfactory to the Bank.
K Planning
32.    At present, the Chinese government is implementing the Great Western Development Strategy to
expedite development of the mid and western parts of the country. One of the most significant tasks is to
expedite especially the construction of infrastructure and highway transportation. SPTD has developed a
plan to expand the highway network in the province covering trunk highways, branch highways, and rural
roads, and connecting with those in surrounding provinces and regions. By 2010, the highway mileage of
the province shall reach 52,000 kIn, in which expressways shall be 3,010 km. The class 1 highway shall be
178 km, the class 2 highway shall be 7,300 km. With the completion of the provincial highway network,
the "one-day-driving transportation circle" shall be formed to link Xi'an with Taiyuan, Beijing, Zhengzhou,
Wuhan, Chongqing, Chengdu, Lanzhou, Yinchuan, Boatou, and other central cities. Over 70 percent of
counties in the province shall be connected with expressways, and each county will be within five hours
driving to reach major cities in the province.
33.    In 2002, SPTD started to implement the tolling system with one toll card applicable to the whole
expressway network in the province. Four highways, including WTE, THH, FJTH, and LTWMH, shall
first be equipped with such tolling system in 2003.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/prihate sector):
10. Additional Information
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome i Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
High-Grade Highways:                  Estimate at appraisal                As of December 2002
1. Congeston on existing roads reduoed -
average daily traffic (ADT) on high-grade
highways:
FJTH (34.8 km)                      3,000 veh/day                          3,000 veh/day
LXH (48.3 km)                       3,600                                  3,300
THH (73.6 km)                       7,200                                  3,800
WTE (78.1 km)                       8,200                                 11,000
ADT on existing parallel roads:
FJTH corridor                       1,600 veh/day                           800 veh/day
LXH                                   700                                   900
THH                                 3,000                                  3,000
WTE                                 3,500                                  1,500
2. Economic activities promoted:
GOVAI Per Capita in affected counties
increased:
FJTH corridor                         Y  5,671                              Y 5,735
LXH                                      3,195                                3,299
THH                                      5,217                                5,422
WTE                                      4,487                                4,503
3. Road safety improved: Fatalities/injures
caused by accidents reduced:
FJTH corridor                       10 per 10,000 veh.                    26 per 10,000 veh
LXH                                 12                                    16
THH                                 17                                     9
WTE                                 29                                    12
RIPA:
1. ADT increased:
1 st package                        250 veh/day                           490 veh/day
2nd package                         290                                   260
3rd package                         280                                   340
4th package                         390                                   310
2. GOVAI per capita in affected counties
increased:
1 st package                           Y 865                                Y 993
2nd package                              845                                  974
3rd package                              847                                  923
4th package                              855                                   949
3. Number of closed days reduced:
1st package                         7 days                                5 days
2nd package                         8                                     8
3rd package                         6                                     9
4th package.                        6                                    |
Institutional capacity strengthened:
Training program successfully completed:  2,633                            2,913
person-months
Note: During the implementation of the project, the Bank and SPTD agreed that indicators to measure the achievement of the project
objectives would focus more on direct and easily measurable and sustainable ones. This table covers only major indicators.
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Estimate at Appraisal
1. Five high-grade highways completed:
FJTH (34.8 km)                     November 1998 (100%)                   April 1999 (100%)
LTWMH (5.9 km)                     October 1997 (100%)                    March 1999 (100%)
LXH (48.3 km)                      December 1998 (100%)                   June 1999 (100%)
1 HH (73.6 km)                      December 2000 (100%)                   Apnl 2001 (100%)
WTE (78.1 km)                       December 1999 (100%)                  October 1999 (100%)
2. 32 km of Xian-Sanyuan Highway upgraded December 1997 (100%)                March 2000 (100%)
3.4,100 km of rural roads improved or newly December 2000 (100%)              October 2000 (100%)
constructed
4. Pilot blackspot program completed   December 2000 (100%)                   December 2001 (100%)
5. Planned training program completed  June 2001 (100%)                       December 2001 (100%)
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost by Component     Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Apria
US$ million  US$ million   Appraisal
High-grade highways
Civil works               282.8         344.6         121.9
E&M supply and installation  8.5        9.3           109.4
Buildings                 12.7          10.5          82.7
Xian-Sanyuan highway             13.7          12.7         92.7
RIPA                             65.1         111.9         171.9
Highway safety                   1.3          6.2           476.9
Subtotal               384.1        495.3         129.0
Supervision                      10.3         11.5          111.7
Equipment                        15.8          13.7         86.7
Training                         1.2           1.4          116.7
Studies                          1.2          0.7           58.3
Contingencies                    90.5         -
Land acquisition                 53.4         51.5          96.4
Project Total          556.5        574.0         103.1
Percent of total                 100.0
- 25 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal/Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Cost by Component      ICB       NCB      Other/a    NBF/b     Project
________  Cost
High-grade highways and linking
Civil works                   345.5       15.7                         361.2
(143.2)     (5.7)                        (148.9)
E&M supply and installation     11.0                                     11.0
(8.8)                                    (8.8)
Xian-Sanyuan Highway                       4.3      12.2                 16.5
(1.9)     (5.3)                (7.2)
RIPA                                         39.7      39.7                 79.4
(14.7)    (14.8)               (29.5)
Traffic accidents (black spots)                          1.6                 1.6
(0.0)               (0.0)
Equipment                           8.5                 4.1        5.1      17.7
(5.9)               (3.2)      (0.0)     (9. 1)
Consultants and training/C
Supervision of construction                         12.9                 12.9
(4.7)               (4.7)
Training                                             1.4                  1.4
(1.1)               (1.1)
Studies                                              1.4                  1.4
(0.7)               (0.7)
Land acquisition and resettlement                                 53.4      53.4
(0.0)      (0.0)
365.0       59.7      73.3      58.5     556.5
Total                          (157.9)     (22.3)    (29.8)     (0.0)   (210.0)
/a Other includes force account, international shopping, and limited international bidding, and consultants
and training.
/b NBF means not Bank-financed.
/c Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Usc of Consultants.
- 26 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Cost by Component                                          Total
ICB      NCB    Other/a   NBF/b    Project
Cost
High-grade Highways and Linking
Civil works                   347.9    3.9                 3.3     355.1
(151.7)   (1.7)              (0.0)    (153.4)
E&M supply and installation                       0.9      8.4       9.3
(0.7)               (0.7)
Xian-Sanyuan Highway                     4.7      8.0                12.7
(2.1)    (3.5)               (5.6)
RIPA                                        35.8     76.1               111.9
(1:3.2)  (28.2)              (41.4)
Traffic accidents (blackspots)                        0.0      6.4        6.2
(0.0)               (0.0)
Equipment                           3.2               2.3      8.2       13.7
(3.2)             (2.3)    (0.0)      (5.5)
Consultants and training/C
Supervision of construction                       2.3      9.2       11.5
(2.3)    (0.0)      (2.3)
Training                                          0.9      0.5        1.4
(0.9)    (0.0)      (0.9)
Studies                                           0.2      0.5        0.7
(0.2)    (0.0)      (0.2)
Land acquisition and resettlement                             51.5       51.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
351.1     44.4     90.7     87.8      574.0
Total                   (t54.9)    (170)    (38.1)    (0.0)   (210.0)
/a Other include force account, international shopping and limited international bidding, and consultants and
training.
/b NBF means not Bank-financed.
/c Selection of consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Usc of Consultants.
- 27-



Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
: ,. -fP 5bl~:Estin~aten.    iActuallLatest Estimnate P-iercentag of App
Component;..                                                            F *:.,* - ;  o A, raisal.
~~en  ank,Sfhaanxi "C'e'iral Bank- Shaa'nii :C-entral  k
High-grade highways
Civil works        40.8  118.6  123.4   86.2  106.7  151.7  211.3   90.0  122.9
E&M works           1.7           6.8    8.6           0.7  505.9          10.3
Buildings           7.1           5.6    8.8           1.7  123.9          30.4
Xian-Sanyuan         7.7           6.0    7.1           5.6   92.2          93.3
highway
RIPA                15.2   26.0   23.9   39.2   31.3   41.4  257.9  120.4  173.2
Highway safety       1.3                  6.2
Subtotal       73.8  144.6  165.7  156.1  138.0  201.0  211.5  139.0  121.3
Supervision          6.6           3.7    9.2           2.3  139.4          62.2
Equipment            7.5           8.3    8.2           5.5  109.3          66.3
Training             0.3           0.9    0.5           0.9   166.7        100.0
Studies              0.6           0.6    0.5           0.2   83.3          33.3
Contingencies       59.7          30.8
Land acquisition    53.4                 51.5                 96.4
Project Total   201.9  144.6  210.0  226.0  138.1  210.0  111.9   95.5    100
Percent of total    36.3   26.0   37.7   39.4   24.1   36.6
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
1.     The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two components:
a. construction of five high-grade highways and upgrading a highway, totaling 291 km in Shaanxi
province, and
b. construction and/or improvement of 152 rural roads and bridges in the poor counties of Shaanxi,
totaling about 3,919 km, under the Road Improvement in Poor Areas (RIPA) program.
2.     The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR
and is summarized as follows:
a. capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2002 prices and are
included in the cost stream;
b. the benefits, also reflected in December 2002 prices, consist of savings in vehicle operating costs
(VOC), travel time savings, reduced traffic congestion on existing roads, and enhanced road safety;
c. a project life of 20 years has been assumed, and the capital investment periocl for all components
was from 1995 to 2001, depending on the construction phases; and
d. for the costs for rural roads under RIPA, the additional costs required for reconstruction of
damaged sections due to severe floods incurred in 1998 and 1999 are included.
3.     During project implementation, some project components were modified. The economic analysis
reflects the final implementation outcomes of the project.
4.     This annex comprises four parts: the economic evaluation of high-grade highways; the economic
evaluation of RIPA; the overall economic evaluation of the project, including the probabilistic risk analysis;
and the financial evaluation of the project.
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF HIGH-GRADE HIGHWAYS
5.     The high-grade highways consist of six roads for economic evaluation.
Length (kim)  Length (km)  Opening
Existing Roads  HGH          Date
1.  Weinan - Tongguan Expressway       87.00         78.10     Oct. 1999
2.  Tongchuan- Huangling Hwy            97.00        91.97     Apr 2001
3.  Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy          51.20        48.30     Jun. 1999
4.  Lintong -Warriors Museum Hwy         6.30         6.02     Oct. 1999
5.  Famensi - Tangyu Hwy                40.90        34.80     Apr. 1999
6.  Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                  32.00        32.00.    Dec. 1998
Total                 314.40        291.19
-29 -



Corridor Trafflc
6.     The first newly constructed highway was opened to traffic in April 1999 and the last one was
opened in April 2001. The traffic volume of six highways for 1999-2001 and its distribution among the
existing and new highways are shown in Table 1.
7.     LXH and FJTH ware opened to traffic in June and April 1999, respectively. The actual corridor
traffic of these highways in 1999 was much higher than estimated at appraisal. The diversion rates from the
existing roads to the new highways were 49 percent and 67 percent, respectively. The actual corridor traffic
increased greatly in 2000 -- 80 percent and 38 percent higher than the estimates. The diversion rates also
increased to 63 percent and 73 percent, respectively. Even in 2001, the actual corridor traffic of these
highways was still much higher than the estimates, with higher diversion rates as well.
8.     WTE and LTWMH were opened to traffic in October 1999. The actual corridor traffic of these
highways in 2000 was 69 percent and 182 percent higher than the estimates. However, the diversion rate on
WTE was lower than expected (66 percent against 70 percent). The corridor traffic of LTWMH tripled in
2001, but with a lower diversion rate.
9.     THH was opened to traffic in April 2001. The actual corridor traffic during the remaining eight
months in 2001 was much lower than expected (35 percent lower) with a lower diversion rate as well. The
lower corridor traffic is considered to be due to the fact that the inmnediate northem section of THH was
under construction.
Traffic Projection
10.    The increase of traffic on a new expressway, particularly when it is operated as a toll facility, is
gradual in the initial operational years and then the diversion accelerates. The average traffic growth rates
(during 1999-2002) on six highways were between 7 and 23 percent. Despite the increasing diversion
factor ratio and fast traffic growth rates in the initial operational years, the long-term traffic growth rates
on the new highways were estimated to be slightly lower than the SAR's forecast in general. The traffic
forecast for the six highways is summarized in the following table.
- 30 -



TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR NEW HIGHWAYS (in AADT)
Weinan - TonaRuan Expresswav  Tongchuan - Huaneline Hwv  Lantian -Xiaoshanovupn Hwv
Total        MTE            Total       MTE              Total         MTE
SAR
1999                        -             -            --                            -
2000           -           6,256          -           6,583             --          2,606
2001           -           6,782          -           6,961             --          2,810
2002          --           7,353          -           7,360             --          3,030
2010          --          14,036          -          11,498             --          5,533
2020           -          26,065          -          17,656             --          9,890
Avcrage growth p.a.
2000-2020                   7.4%                       5.1%                          6.9%
ICR
1999         12,667        9,691          -                           4,024         2,231
2000         13,174        9,999         3,867         -               4,334         3,423
2001         13,174       10,114         3,867        3,159            4,334         3,632
2002         14,761       11,438         4,773        4,000            4,130         3,393
2010         25,264       19,577         9,310        7,802            7,491         6,154
2020         43,291       33,546        18,815       15,767           14,429        11,854
Avcragc growth p.a.
2000-2020      6.1%         6.2%           8.7/o         8.8%/_I        6.2%          6.4%
/_1: Average annual growth rate during 2001-2020.
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR NEW HIGHWAYS (in AADT)
Lintona - Warriors Museum Hwy        Famcrns - Tangvu Hwy       Xian - Sanvuan Hwy
Total           MTE             Total       MTE           Total        MTE
1999           -               -                           --
2000           --             1,969             --        1,581           --          --
2001           -              2,086             -         1.725
2002           -              2,210             -         1,883
2010           -              3,700             --        3,794          --           --
2020           --             8,019             -         6,767          --            -
Avcrage growth p.a.
2000-2020        -              7.3%             --        7.5%            --           -
ICR
1999           -                -             3,230       2,172         18,847      14,158
2000          3,045           2,394           3,895       2,620         21,893       16,871
2001          3,330           2,526           4,228       2,863         21,741       17,887
2002          3,619           2,761           4,642       3,168         22,983       18,500
2010          6,433           4,908           8,789       5,998         48.634      39,148
2020         12,574           9,593           17,095     11,666        1(08,986      87,728
Avcrage growth p.a.
2000-2020      7.3%             7.2%            7.7%       7.8%           8.4%         8.6%
Sources: SPTD and the Bank staff.
11.     Actual traffic data were used for 1999-2001, and for subsequent years, the following growth rates
were assumed:
a. the normal traffic growth rates for new highways were estimated to be within a range of between 5
to 10 percent during 2002-2010, depending on the type of vehicle and road. Growth rates during
2010-2020 were assumed to be in the range of between 3.5 and 8.5 percent; and
b. it was assumed that there would be no generated traffic.
-31 -



Economic Costs
12.     Financial construction costs were converted to economic costs by applying shadow prices for each
of the input items. The total economic cost of six highways at the end of project implementation in constant
December 2002 prices was 20.8 percent higher than the SAR's estimate.
Economic Cost Comparison (Y million)
ICR/ SAR
SAR/i         ICR        (in%)
1. Weinan - Tongguan Expressway           1,159.30    1,464.14    26.3%
2. Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy              1,645.95    1,990.64    20.9%
3. Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy              334.91      431.00     28.7%
4. Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy            25.97       44.99     73.2%
5. Famensi - Tangyu Hwy                     180.56     251.27     39.2%
6. Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                       150.35      43.08     -71.3%
Total                     3,497.04    4,225.12    20.8%
/_1. The April 1995 prices (in SAR) were updated to December 2002 pnces.
Economic Benefits
13.     Project benefits were estimated by using the VOC equation that was developed in the Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-lI). The economic analysis includes the benefits derived
from: (a) VOC savings on the new highways (summarized in the following tables); (b) time savings through
relieved congestion on the existing roads; and (c) lower accident costs. The VOC savings includes the net
VOC savings of the vehicles using the new highways. The time savings include the benefits resulting from
lowered congestion on existing roads. The value of passenger time savings was estimated at Y 2.0 per
passenger-hour, on the basis of updated values in a report on the feasibility study methodology for
highways in China (Australian Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March 1996). The same source was
used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of roads.
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Yuan per km, December 2002 prices)
Good      -          Fair-        -     Poor
Flat   Hill  Mount. Fiat   Hill  Mount.  Flat  Hill Mount.
Car             0.788  0823   0.849  0.825  0.857  0881  1.067  1.099  1 123
Medium bus      1.130  1.312  1.470  1.629  1.866  2.058  2.147  2.354  2.546
Large bus      2.004  2.444  2.835  3.045  3 667  4 178  3 689 4.289  4 800
Small truck    0919    1.149  1.321  0.974  1 190  1.352  1.190  1.379  1 568
Medium truck    1.068  1 316  1.564  1.097  1 348  I 577  1 326  1.577  1 828
Large truck     1.522  1.865  2.208  1.620  1.968  2 276  1.927 2.276  2.604
Tractor/trailer  2.206  2.909  3.517  2.332  3.035  3 627  2.776  3.442  4.053
- 32 -



Example of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
(Yuan per 1,000 veh.-kn, December 2002 prices)
Medium   Large   Small  Medium    Large  Trailer/
-                      Car    bus     bus    Truck   truck    truck  container
New Hi0hwavs:
Fuel                         325      383    714     575      630     651      840
Tires                         59       57     182     94      195     620     1,150
Maintenance                  339      345    419     680      567     602      680
Crew                          26      26      26      26       26      26       26
Depreciation                  45       19     85     233       59     III      231
Subtotal             774     927    1.835   1.321    1 564   2 208   2.517
Time value of passengers      75      500   1,000
Total               849   1I470    2.835   1,321   1.564   2.208    3I.7
Existine Roads:
Fuel                         425      518    840     700      743     840     1,(50
Tires                         63       64    208      101     221     680     1,265
Maintenance                  305      383    466     756      630     669      756
Crew                          60       71     71      71       71      71       71
Depreciation                  41      21      94     258       66     124      257
Subtotal                   252    [.213  ;L2      .156a    182    2.04     4.053
Time value of passengers     171    1,333   2,667
Total             1.123 .          4.800   1.568    1.828  2.604    4,053
Sources: SPTD and the Bank staff.
Economic Evaluation
14.      The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the high-grade highways was estimated at 13.1
percent, which is lower than the 16 percent estimated in the SAR. The lower EIRR is primarily due to
much lower traffic volume on the Tongchuan-Huangling Highway and a substantial cost overrun. EIRRs
and net present values (NPV) are summarized in the following table.
EIRR (in %) and NPV {12%, Y million)
SAR                    ICR
EIRR     NPV         EIRR       NPV
l. Weinan - Tongguan Expressway           16.7      --         15.6      465.5
2.Tongchuan-HuanglingHwy                  16.3                  8.7     (515.2)
3. Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy             14.3      --         12.6       25.9
4. Lintong- Warriors Museum Hwy           14.7      --          13.0       5.2
5. Famensi - Tangyu Hwy                   12.6      --         18.4      197.5
6. Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                      --       --         29.0      168.1
Total                     16.0      --         13.1      408.2
Sensitivity Analysis
15.      The EIRRs with different scenarios show that the changes in assumptions to be made in the
evaluation could alter the yield on the investment. Because operation and maintenance costs of the
high-grade highways are.relatively small in the investment, any variation in these costs would have
minimum discernible impact on EIRR. The impact of changes in traffic volume was analyzed under two
traffic growth scenarios. The results of the sensitivity test show that the reduction of passenger time
savings by 50 percent has the greatest impact while the reduction of road congestion has the least impact on
the EIRR.
- 33 -



SENSITIVITY TEST
EIRR (in %)   NPV(12%, Y million)
VOC savings reduced by5%              11.2            (268.3)
Passenger time savings reduced by 50%  10.6           (485.0)
Congestion savings reduced to zero    12.9             339.3
Total benefits reduced by 15%          11.            (297.2)
Scenario Analysis
16.    Besides the normal traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have also been
considered: a lower traffic growth projection (25 percent lower than normal traffic) and a higher traffic
growth projection (25 percent higher than normal traffic growth). The traffic growth and average annual
growth rate under these two scenarios are as follows:
EXPRESSWAY TRAFFIC FORECAST SCENARIOS
High Growth Rate    Low Growth Rate
Average growth rate p.a.  7.9% - 10.6%        4.3% - 6.8%
17.    The overall EIRRs for the different traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the following table.
It shows that the overall EIRR for a higher traffic growth rate is 15.0 percent and for a lower traffic growth
rate 11.3 percent.
TRAFFIC GROWTH RATE SCENARIO TEST
NPV (12%, Y
EIRR (in%)      million)
High traffic growth rate scenario     15.0         1,211.4
Low traffic growth rate scenario      11.3        (236.8)
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF RIPA
Background and Traffic
18.    In the SAR, 4,068 km of rural roads was to be implemented in phases. The SAR specified that the
first phase would cover five roads (for 321 kin). During implementation, the RIPA was carried out in four
phases with 152 subcomponents covering the rural roads and bridges. The RIPA program commenced in
October 1996 and was completed in December 2000.
RIPA PRPGRAM
SAR                                ICR
Length (kn) Subcomponent   Length (km)  Subcomponent  Completion Date
Phase 1     321          5             319           8        March 1998
Phase 2      --          --           2,105         89       December 1998
Phase 3      --          --           1,081         36       December 1999
Phase 4      --          --            414           19      December 2000
Total     4068                                     152
Sources: The SAR and SPTD
19.    The main work under RIPA was repairing the existing roads and bridges in the poorest areas of
- 34 -



Shaanxi province, particularly in the central and northeni parts of the province. Because all the RIPA
subcomponents were in the same region, the economic development and traffic patterns were very similar.
Based on traffic performance, traffic growth rates were assumed to be 5.0 percent per year for motor
vehicles and 3.5 percent for tractors for 2002-2010, to be reduced by 1 percent for the next 10 years
beyond 2010. In the SAR, the vehicle traffic growth rate was assumed to be 7.0-10 percent per year
between 1995 and 2015 for all types of vehicles.
Economic Costs
20.    Financial costs were converted to economic costs using a methodology similar to that applied to the
high-grade highways. All input items were evaluated in constant December 2002 economic prices. The
overall economic cost is about 96 percent of the financial cost. During the project implementation, the
project area was hit by a very severe flood disaster. The disaster destroyed not only most of the newly built
roads and bridges, but also damaged the road bed, bridge piers, and the foundation of earth work. The
repair work started in 1999, and the repair costs were even higher than the original budget for the project.
All these repair costs were included in the economic evaluation. It is estimated that about two-thirds of total
RIPA costs were for repair work.
21.    Because of the major repair works, the total actual economic cost of RIPA at December 2002
constant prices was about 4.55 times higher than the SAR's estimate.,
RIPA COST (Y million, December 2002 prices)
SAR (A)          ICR (B)      (B)/(A) in %
Phase 1         108.53            148.62        36.9%
Phase 2           --            1,420.99         --
Phase 3           --              730.78         --
Phase 4           --              267.25         --
Total         462.80 Li        2,567.64      +454.8%
LI. The April 1995 prices (in SAR) were updated to December 2002 prices.
Economic Benefits
22.    The economic benefits of RIPA were derived mainly from VOC savings due to shorter distances (if
applicable), nonnal traffic, and generated traffic.
23.    As a result of the project, the road classifications of all 152 subcomponents were upgraded. The
better surface pavement reduced.VOC and yielded the major portion of the project benefits. Generated
traffic was assumed to be 5 percent of normal traffic. In addition, the better paved roads and bridges
increased vehicle speed and reduced congestion. These benefits were quantified also as a part of operating
cost savings.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
24.    The EIRRs of the four phases range from 9.2 percent to 24.7 percent. The overall EIRR for the
RIPA is 16.7 percent. If there had been no flood disaster, the EIRR of the RIPA could have been as high as
47.6 percent (ranging from 29.7 percent to 55.9 percent).
- 35 -



EIRR AND NPV OF RIPA
EIRR (in %)         NPV (12%, Y million)
SAR      ICR           SAR         ICR
Phase 1     15.0     16.2          --          34.3
Phase2      --       15.1          --         218.0
Phase 3     --       24.7          --         502.8
Phase 4     --        9.2          --        (36.4)
Total      --       16.7          --         531.6
25.     The risks considered for sensitivity analysis are: (a) slower than projected growth of traffic, (b) no
generated traffic, and (c) fewer than expected benefits. The results of the sensitivity test show that the
reduction of total benefits by 25 percent has the greatest impact, while no generated traffic has the least
impact on the EIRR.
SENSITIVITY TEST FOR RIPA                     --
EIRR (in %)  NPV(12%, Y million)
Slower than projected growth of traffic (-25%)  15.7      390.0
No generated traffic                      16.4            502.3
Reduction of total benefit (-25%o         12.3             31.1
THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall EIRR
26.    The overall EIRR of the entire project (including high-grade highways and RIPA) is 14.1 percent,
and the NPV (12 percent) is about Y 896.0 million. In the SAR, the EIRR for the entire project was
estimated to be 15.8 percent.
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million)
SAR               ICR
EIRR   NPV        EIRR     NPV
HGH          16.0   --         13.1   408.2
RIPA         15.0   --         16.7    531.6
Total     15.8    =         14.1    896.0
Project Risks
27.    The overall EIRR of the project is economically justifiable despite the high repair costs for the
RIPA due to the natural disaster. The lower EIRR for the high-grade highways was mainly due to cost
overruns on most of the highways and less traffic demand on the high-grade highway that constitutes about
31.6 percent of the total length and 47.1 percent of the total cost of the high-grade highways. It is suggested
that the project should have had better cost estimates for traffic origin-destination and construction during
the feasibility study stage.
- 36 -



Probabilistic Risk Analysis
28.     To determine the degree of uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte
Carlo techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at
random between set limits, and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. The Monte
Carlo simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing
these distributions, it is possible to assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or
probabilistic risk analysis). The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision
variable and on the likelihood of each value within this range.
29.    For the RIPA, the sum of capital costs constitutes only about 38 percent of the total capital
investment. In view of the higher EIRR and lower capital investment of the RIPA, the probabilistic risk
analysis for the project focused on the construction of the high-grade highways. The most uncertain factors
associated with the economic evaluation of high-grade highways were identified as the traffic growth rate
and the value of VOC. The results of the probabilistic risk analysis for the project show that the EIRR for
the most likely scenario is 13.7 percent. The worst-case scenario of the analysis is 9.2 percent and for the
best-case scenario, 18.5 percent. The standard error of the mean is 0.3 percent. The results of the Monte
Carlo test and probabilistic analyses (Appendix 1) are summarized in the following table.
Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Most likely  Standard error
Range of EIRR    EIRR       of the mean
1. Weinan - Tongguan Expressway    11.4% - 21.5%    16.5%        0.3%
2. Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy        7.5% - 16.5%    11.6%        0.3%
3. Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy      10.7% - 20.0%    15.2%        0.3%
4. Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy   11.0% - 20.9%    15.7%        0.3%
5. Famensi - Tangyu Hwy            17.7% - 19.1%    18.4%        0 0%
6. Xian - Sanyuan Hwy              27.8% - 30.4%    29.0%        0.1%'Y
Total                 9.2% - 18.5%    13.7%        0.3%
FINANCIAL EVALUATION
30.    The financial evaluation of the project comprises three sections: an assessment of the
revenue-earning entity (the high-grade highways), focusing on consolidated financial statements; an
assessment of the non-revenue-earning RIPA, focusing on financial risk in terms of construction, operation,
and maintenance; and an assessment of the financial capa.city of SPTD to sustain highway activities,
focusing on the adequacy of the funding allocations in the provincial road development plan. For the
high-grade highways, the financing structure consists of the Bank loan (34 percent) and grant capital (66
percent). The financial cost of capital was assumed to be 5 percent for both sources. The SAR had no
financial evaluation for the project.
FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF TOLL HIGHWAYS
31.    Operating entities have been established by SPTI) to operate high-grade highways. The entities are
responsible for the day-to-day management, operation, maintenance, and development of the highways,
including the repayment of the loan. The toll charges are strictly controlled by the provincial government.
The toll charges were assumed to be increased once (15 percent) every five years (or an average of 2.8
percent per year).
- 37 -



Financial Assessment
32.     Tolls. The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size (small vehicle, medium vehicle, large vehicle
and extra large vehicle) and distance traveled. The current toll charges for the six highways are different
and listed in the following table.
Toll Charges (Yuan/ Vehicle km)
Small   Medium   Large   Extra-
vehicle  vehicle  vehicle  large
1. Weinan - Tongguan Expressway    0.431    0.689    0.819   1.121
2. Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy        0.338    0.540   0.675   0.946
3. Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy       0.293    0.440   0.733   1.026
4. Lintong - The Warriors Museum Hwy  0.625  1.250   1.875   2.500
5. Famensi - Tangyu Hwy             0.294    0.441   0.588   0.735
6. Xian - Sanyuan Hwy               0.412    0.619   0.825   1.031
33.     Operations. The operating costs of the high-grade highways can be divided into working costs
(wages and benefits; maintenance; operating materials and supplies; administration; others) and
depreciation. All other expenses, including interest payments on the loan, are also taken into account in the
calculation of the profitability of high-grade highways.
34.     Profitability. The high-grade highways will generate enough revenue over the project life.
However, lower profits may take place in 2002-2004. The main reason is that repayment of the Bank loan
starts in 2002 and it will create financial pressure on the high-grade highways. In addition, because of the
low toll growth assumptions, the rate of return on average net fixed assets for the early years of operation
is low. It is anticipated that a negative profit may take place in 2009 because major maintenance work is
planned in that year (see Table 2.1.)
35.     Cash flow. The low toll growth assumption may cause lower profit, but it will not affect the cash
flow of the high-grade highways. This is because of the large sum of depreciation reserves. In 2002 , for
example, the total depreciation reserve (Y 124.13 million) contributed about 86.1 percent of the total
financial obligations (Y 144.15 million), or equivalent to 6.5 times of total working costs in that year. The
strong internal cash generation will be able to provide sufficient funds to support the operations, loan
repayments, and even major maintenance expenditures. On the basis of the revenue forecast, it is estimated
that the high-grade highways will not need any external cash injection over the life of the project (see Table
2.2).
36.     Leverage and Liquidity. The low profit in the early years of operation will not affect the financial
leverage of the high-grade highways because of the high proportion of equity (government contributions
weighted at about 66 percent of the total project cost), which will support a healthy debt-to-equity ratio and
debt-to-capital ratio (the financial leverage of the company) throughout the life of the project. Because of
the strong cash flow status, except for 1999, the current ratio will be in the sound range of 2.9 and higher
(to avoid short-term solvency problems, the current ratio should be at least 1.0) (see Table 2.3). The major
assumptions for financial evaluations are shown in Table 2.4.
- 38 -



Financial Internal Rate of Return
37.     Based on the current financial status, the high-grade highways may not need any external financial
assistance. However, the low profit margin produces a negative impact on the financial internal rate of
return (FIRR). The result of the financial evaluation for the high-grade highways shows that the FIRR for
the high-grade highways will be 3.7 percent with an NPV (5 percent) of Y 696.9 million.
Scenario Analysis
38.    The financial sensitivity analysis tested two scenarios: the higher traffic growth rate and the lower
traffic growth rate for the high-grade highways. The results for the traffic growth scenarios are shown in
the following table.
FINANCIAL SCENARIO ANALYSIS
FIRR (in %)  NPV (Y million, 5.0%)
Higher Traffic Growth Rate (+25)   5.8             492.7
Lower Traffic Growth Rate (-25%)    1.2          -1,641.4
Project Risks
39.    SPTD completed the project on time within the acceptable range of cost overruns. The field visit
confirmed that SPTD can provide quality services to road users while maintaining the roads in good
condition. The only remaining tangible risks are the unforeseeable mixed factors (or degree of uncertainty)
that will affect the results of the financial evaluation. This will be discussed in the on probabilistic risk
analysis.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis (Financial Simulation)
40.     To determine the degree of financial uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using
Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. The three most uncertain factors that may affect the financial
evaluation have been identified as traffic growth rate, the growth rate of toll charges, and the growth rate of
total working costs. The risk analysis revealed that the most likely FIRR would be 3.5 percent, while the
worst and the best FIRR would be 0.8 percent and 5.9 percent, respectively. Details are in Appendix 2 and
summarized in the following table.
Financial Sensitivity and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Financial Simulation and Risk Analysis
Range of      Most Likely     Std. Error of
FIRR / NPV     FIRR / NPV       The Mean
FIRR (in %)                0.8 - 5.9       3.5              0.2
NPV (5.0%, Yuan million)  - 1,943 - 429    - 854           82.6
FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF RIPA
41.     All the 152 subcomponents under RIPA are toll-free roads. The financial evaluation of these
non-revenue-earning entities focuses on the SPTD's capacity to minirnize financial risks, i.e., the lack of
counterpart funds for construction and repairs, including iuture operating expenses for the project roads
and bridges.
- 39-



42.     SPTD's budget (actual and forecast) shows that the investment and maintenance expenditures for
the RIPA constitute only a small fraction of SPTD's fund flow. Therefore, the fiscal impact is minimal.
Based on the SPTD plan, capital investment in RIPA is less than 6.0 percent of the total
annual SPTD revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure of RIPA is less than 9.0 percent
of the total maintenance expenditure of SPTD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a low
financial risk regarding construction and maintenance of the project roads and bridges. Details are shown in
Table 3 and summarized in the following table.
SPTD: Investments, Revenue and Maintenance Expenditures (Y million)
2000     2001      2002     2003    2004     2005
Investmcnts and Rcvcnuc:
RIPA Investmcnts (a)            443 05    506.45   521.59        -       -        -
Total SPTD Revenuc (b)          8,614.31  11,727.97  13,840.19  15,296.0  17,602.0  19,803.0
Ratios (a)/(b)                    5.1%     43%      38%       0.0%    0.0%     0.0%
Maintenance Expenditures
RIPA (c)                         34.69     40 18    41 43    40.28    41.72   41 99
Total SPTD Maintenancc Expcnditure (d)  525.00  464.17  488 90  483 0  511 ()  525.0
Ratios (c)/(d)                    6.6%     8.7%      8.5%     8.3%    8.2%     8.0%
FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF SPTD
43.     SPTD has provided its financing plan on total revenue and expenditures for the Ninth Five-Year
Plan (1996-2000) and the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005). According to the Shaanxi highway
development plan, SPTD has acquired sufficient funds to finance yearly increases in the length of the
provincial road network and has allocated resources for the maintenance of the existing road network. In
addition, a moderate self-financing ratio (34.7 percent for the tenth Five-Year Plan) will ensure the
implementation of the highway development plan. The sources of highway revenue and expenditures for
1996-2005 are shown in Table 3.
44.     To avoid a capital squeeze effect (i.e., limited annual capital resources forcing an emphasis on new
road construction and reduced maintenance on existing roads), SPTD has given special attention to road
maintenance. As for the sustainability of road maintenance with the resources allocated to it, the average
yearly increase in maintenance expenditures during the Ninth Five Year Plan (6.9 percent) exceeded the
growth of the road network (2.4 percent), which means an increase in average maintenanice expenditure per
kilometer.
SPCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
Road Maintenance Expenditures (in %)
9th FYP       10th FYP
(1996 - 2000)  (2001 - 2005)
Average annual increase in the road network          2.4            2 0
Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures   6.9           1.I
-40 -



Table 1: NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (1999-2001)
Existing Roads       New Hioliwawi        Total Traffic       Diversion
Total      MTE        Total    MTE       Total      MTE        Faictor (DF)
(1)                 (2)                  (3)      (4) (2) / (3)
1999   SAR
Weinan - Tongguan Expressway               --        --          -        --        --       5,872          -
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                             --         -        --        --       6,477
Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy                  -        _           _                  ..       2,632
Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy              .                     _        .--
Famenst - Tangyu Hwy                       --        --          -        --        --       2,650
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                         .-                                                               -
ICR
Weinan - Tongguan Expressway             12,228     10,159     11,980    9,691    24,2018    19,850         49%
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                 6,158      5,151       -         -       6,158      5,151         -
Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy                2,546      2,333      2,640    2,231     5,186     4,564          49%
Lintong - Wamors Museum Hwy               3,425     2,693        -         -       3,425     2,693          -
Famensi -Tangyu Hwy                       1,184      1,083      3,230    2,172     4.414 .   3,255          67%
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy/lI                      -          .        18,847   14,158     18,847    14,158        10t0%
Ratos (ICR/SAR)
Weinan - Tongguan Expressway               --        -.          -        -.                 338% /
Tongehuan - Huangling Hwy                  --        --          -        --        --        80%
Liintian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy                           ..         ..                          1 73%
Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy              .-        ..          _                   .         -
Famensi - Tangyu Hwy                       ..        1.          -        --        --       I23%            -
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                         ..                                                                -
2000   SAR
Weinan - Tongguan Expressway               --       2,738        -       6,256      --       8,994         70%
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                  --       2,865        -       6,583       --      9,448          70%
Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy                 --        386         -       2,606      --       2,992         R7%
Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy              --         -          -       1,969      --       1,969
Famensi -Tangyu Hwy                        --       1,028        -       1,581      --       2,009         61%
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                         --         -          -                             -             -
ICR
Weinan - Tongguan Expressway             6,648      5,242      12,667    9.999     19.315    15,241         66%
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                7,267      5,964        -        --        7,267     5,964         0%
Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy               2,357      1,968       4,024    3,423     6,381     5,391          63%
Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy            4,029      3,167       3,045    2,394     7,1074     5,561         43%
Famensi -Tangyu Hwy                       1,171      992        3,895    2,621)    5,066      3,612         73%
Xian- Sanyuan Hwy/LI                       -          -        21,893   16,871    21,893     16,871        100%
Ratios (ICR/SAR)
Weinan-Tongguan Expressway                 --       191%         -       160P/o     --       169P/n          -
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                           208%         -        (1%       --        63%
Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy                 --       510%         -       131%       --       18(n            -
Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy              --                    -        --                 282%
Famenst -Tangyu Hwy                        --        96%         -       166%       --       138%
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                                    -- .       _        .
-41-



Table 1: Continue
Exisfina Roads       New Hiuhwaw          Total Traffic       Diversion
Total      MTE        Total    MTE       Total      MTE        Factor (DF)
(t)                 (2)                 (3)       (4) =(2) / (3)
200!1 SAR
Weinan - Tongguan Expressway               -        2,883        -       6,782       --      9,665          70%
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                  --       2,993        -       6,961               9,954          70h
Lanfan-Xiaoshangyuan Hwy                   --        412         -       2,810               3,222         87%
Lintong - Warriors Museum Hwy              --         -          -       2,097               2,097           -
Famensi -Tangyu Hwy                                 1,088        -       1,725               2,813         61%
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                                    -          -                   --        -             -
15B
Weinan-Tongguan Expresway                 1.617     1,386      13,174   10,114     14,791    11,500         88%
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                 3,995     3,300       3,867    3,159      7,862     6,459         49%
Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy                 732        604       4,334    3,632     5,066      4,236         86%
Lintong- Warriors Museum Hwy             4,343      3,416       3,330    2,526      7,673     5,942         43%
Famensi - Tangyu Hwy                      1,336      899        4,228    2,863     5,564     3,762          76%
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy /I                       -                  21,741   17,887    21,741     17,887        100%
Rasdos (ICR/SARC
Weinan - Tongguan Expressway               --        48%         -       1491Y%     --       1191Y           -
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy                  --       110%         -        45%        --       65%            -
Lantian-Xtaoshangyuan Hwy                  --       147%         -       129%       --       131%            -
Lintong - Warriors Muaeum Hwy                                    -       120%        --      283%            -
Famensi-TangyuHwy                          --        83%         -       166%       --       134%            -
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy                                    -          -        -_                   _             -
/1: Upgrading of the existing road.
Sources: SAR and SPTD.
-42 -



Table 2.1: Income Statement- Consolidated
(Y million, year ending 31 December)
1999   2000    2001    2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007   2008     2009
Traffic (mIllion veh-km)       162.71  332.93  383.10  408.45 443.36 481.46  522.88  568.00  617.16  670.74  729.09
Revenue
Tolls                         * 80.97  203.60  208.25  225.57 243.92 263.90  327.83  354.71  383.88  415.53  449.85
Othcrs                            -    0.22    0.18       -     -      -       -       -       -       -    -
Total                          80.97  203.82  208.43  225.57 243.92 263 90  327.83  354.71  38388  415 53  449.85
Oneratdna Taxes
Busincss tax                   0.63     1.54   1.61    1.53   1.64   1 77   2.19    2.36    2.55    2.74  2.96
Citytax                         0.04   0.11    0.11    0.11   0.11  0.12    0.15    0.17    0.18    0.19   0.21
Education lcvy                  0.02   0.05    0.05    0.05   0.05  0.05    0.07    0.07    0.08    0.08  0.09
Total               0269    17      1.77    L69    180   1 94    241     2 60    281    301    3.26
NetRevenue                     80.28  202.12  206.66  223.88 242.12 261.96  325.42  352.11  381.07  412.52  446.59
Oneradine Costs
Wagesandbcnefits               2.19   25.69    6.07    6.62   7.08  7.44    7.81    8.20    8.61    9.04    9.49
Maintcnance                     1.67   2.29    3.42    3.58   4.01  4.21    4.42    4.64    4.87    5.12  385.74
Operatingmatcrialsandsupplies  0.17    0.39    0.33    0.39   0.41  0.43    0.46    0.48    0.50    0.53    0.55
Administration & management    2.45   25.44    7.85    8.07   8.96  9.41    9.88   10.37   10.89   11.44   12.01
Others                         0.18    0.15    0.26    0.44   0.46  049     0.51    0.54    0.56    0.59    0.62
Totalworkingcosts               6.66  53.96   17.93   19.10  20.93  21.98  23.08   2423    25.44   26.72  408.42
Deprociation          15.82   63.94  121.89  124.13 124.44 124.78  125.13  125.51  125.90  126.30  194.90
Total operating costs         22.48   117.90  139.82  143.23 145.37 146.76  148.21  149.74  15134  153.02  603.32
Oneralne Proflt                 57.80  84.22   66.84   80.65  96.75 115.20  177.21  202.37  229.73  259.50 (156.73)
Financialchargcs:  IBRD            -       -       -   74.58  71.06  67.34  63.44   59.38   55.08   50.57  45.84
Local Bank                                -      -     -       -       -       -       -    -
Othcr income (expenses)           -       -       -   (0.36) (0.36) (0.38)  (0.36)  (0.34)  (0.35)  (0.34)  (0.34)
Proflt BeforeTaxes/I           57.80   84.22   66.84    5.71  25.33  47.48  113.41  142.65  174.30  208.59 (202.91)
Incomc tax                        -       -       -              -             -       -               -    -
NetProfitAfterTaxes            57g0    84.22   66.84    5.71  25.33  47.48  113.41  142.65  174.30  208.59 (202.91)
Rate of Retum on Avcrage Net
Fixed Assets                   25.2    7.0     2.4    0.2     0.7    1.3    3.1     3.8     4.6     5.4    (5.0)
/1: The tax cxcmpted.
/2: Actual: before 2001; Bcst estimates: 2002; Forecast: 2003 thereaftcr.
-43 -



Table 2.2: Sources and Applications of Funds- Consolidated
(Y million, year ending 31 December)
1996    1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004    2005   2006   2007   2008    2009   2010
Sources:
Nct profits             -       -      -  57.80   8422   6684    571    25 33  4748  11341   14265  174,30  20859 (20291)  358.05
Dcpreciation            -       -     -   15.82  6394   121.89  12413  124.44  12478  125 13  12551  12590  126.30  194.90  127.17
Statc contribution  28 27   70 11 249.68  215 54  194 64  18.76     -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -
Provincial
contribution       131,00  302.85 677.08  443 99  524 79  50.41
Borrowing. IBRD         -  282 59 376.20  524 47  261.37  63.89     -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Local
Others       -      -          -      -       -      -      -       -         -       -      -      -       -      -
Total        15927   655.5 1302.96 1257.62 1128,96  321.79  129.84  149 77  17226  238 54  26816  300.20  33489  (8LQL) 48522
Applications:
Capital
expenditurc        159.27  65555 1302.96 118720  98923  153.76  3188    3348   3515   3691   3876    40)70  42.74  38574   47.12
Other cxpcnditure              -              -      -          -      -       -      -      -       -          -      -       -
Loan rcpaymcnt.
IBRD              -       -      -      -      -       -  6957    73109  7681   8071    8477   89(17  9358    98.31  10327
Local                                                            -       -      -      -       -      -          -       -
Changc w/ capital       -       -      -  68.93  10042  13209    7.09  (1.56)  (1 15)  (3671  (I 52)  (I 66)  (176)  (1.91)  (6.18)
Total        159.27    655.55 130296 1256.13 108965  28585  108.54  10501  11081  113.95  12201  128,11  134.56  482.14  144.21
NetFunds Flow                              1.49 12  . 31594     2I3     4476   6145   124.59  146.15 .  17209  20033 (49015  34.L01
Opcn balancc                                -    1.49  40.80   76 74  98 04  142.8(0  204 25  328 84  474 99  647 07  847.41  357 26
Closing balancc             )              49   40 80  76.74   98 04  142 80  2M4.25  328 84  474.99  647 07  847 41  357 26  698 27
D/S Cover                                 -      -       -     1.87   2.05    2.24   2.96   3.16    3.37   3.58   (0.08)  4.70
- 44 -



Table 2.3: Balance Sheet- Consolidated
(Y million, year ending 31 December)
1999   2000    2001   2002    200)3   2004   2005    2006   2007    2008   2009
Assets:
Fixcd Asscts
At cost                 458.50 1934.46 3589.47 3621.35 3654.83 3689 98 3726.89 3765.65 3806.35 3849.09 4234.83
Lcss: Dcprociation        15.82  63.94  185.83  309.96  434.40  559.18  684 31  809.82  935.72 1062.02 1256.92
Nct fixod asscts  442.68 1870.52 3403.64 3311.39 322043 3 130.80 3042.58 2955.83 2870 63 2787.07 2977.91
Currcnt Assets
Invcntory                 0.26    0.79   0.82    0.88    0.94   1.01    i 26    1.36   1.46    1.58   1.71
Rccoivablc                1.14    1.92    5.92   4.81    5 21   5.62    7.00   7.58    8 19    8.87   960
Cash                      1.49   40.80   76.74  98.04  142.80  204.25  328.84  474 99  647 07  847.41  357.26
Subtotal           2.89   43.51  83.48  103.73  148.95  210.88  337 10  483.93  656.72  857.86  368.57
Othcr Asscts               11.70   6.39   10.28   4.29    4.50    4 73   4.97    5.22    i.48   5.75    6 04
Total Assets       45727 1920.42 3497.40 3419.41 3373.L8 3346.41 3384.65 3444.98 3532.8  3650.68 3352 52
Liabillties & Equity
State funds- Equity       244.76 1093.97 1964.40 1962.18 1987.72 2035.43 2149.08 2291.98 2466.53 2675.40 2472.78
L/T loans: IBRD           195.48  811.31 1508.52 1438.95 1365.86 1289.05 1208 34 1123.57 1034 50  940.92  842.61
Local                -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -
Subtotal          195.48  811.31 1508.52 1438.95 136586 1289.05 1208.34 1123.57 1034.50  94092  842.61
CurrcntLiabilitics         17.03   15.14  24.48   18.28  20.30   21.93   27.23  29.43   31.80  34.36   37.13
Othor Liabilitics              -      -       -      -               -      -       -       -      -
Total Liabilities & Equity  457.27 192042 3497.40 3419.41 3373.88 334641 1384.65 3444.98 353283 365068 335252
Debt: capital ratio       44.4   42.6    43.4   42.3    40.7    38.8   36.0    32.9    29.5   26.0    25.4
Debtt equity ratio       46/54   43/57  44/56   43/57   41/59  39/61   37/63  33/67   30/70   27/73  26/74
Current ratio             0.2     2.9    3.4     5.7     7.3    9.6    12.4    16.4    20.7   25.0    9.9
-45 -



Table 2.4: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1. Normal Traffic (AADT):
Medium      Large       Small     Medium      Large     Tractor
bus        bus       truck        truck     truck     -Trailer    Total
Wcmnan - Tongguan Expressway
4,684        1,261     1,689        456       3,416       367        107      11,980
5,446        1,466     1,186        651       2,782      1,027       109      12,667
6,242        1,680     1,237        271       3,108       515        121      13,174
6,760        1,820     1,400        450       3,400       818        113      14,761
12,512       2,901      2,231        717       5,419      1,304       180      25,264
23,487       4,505      3,465       1,113      8,416      2,025       280      43,291
Tongchuan - Huangling Hwy
1,476         398       120         175        1,259       379        60       3,867
1,626         437       150         230        1,750       500        80       4,773
3,485         809       278         426        3,239       925        148       9,310
7,880        1,519      522         800        6,080      1,736      278       18,815
Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy
826         223        156         164       1,090       173         8        2,640
1,212         326       221         289        1,684      281         1 1      4,024
1,416         381       259         360        1,602      303         13       4,334
1,482         399       300         365       1,302       275          7       4,130
2,953         686       515          627       2,237       473         -        7,491
6,677        1,172      880        1,071       3,821       808         -       14,429
Famensi - Tangyu Hwy
2,122         571        68         171         259        32         7        3,230
2,558         689        82        207          312        40          7       3,895
2,740         738       105        260          331        43         1 1      4,228
2,962         797       114        294          381        79         15       4,642
5,902        1,369      196        505          655       136        26        8,789
12,164       2,338       335        863        1,119       232        44       17,095
Xian - Sanyuan Hwy
9,484        2,554     1,223       1,851      3,252        378       105       18,847
10,132        2,728     1,135       5,771      1,749        29(0       88      21,893
7,822        2,106     1,243       9,199        932        324       115       21,741
9,100        2,450     1,300       8,000       1,600       400       133       22,983
20,971        4,882     2,590      15,941      3,188        797       265       48,634
51,971       10,062     5,338      32,855      6,571       1,643      546      108,986
Operating Taxes (only apply to Lantian -Xiaoshangyuan Hwy)
Busincss Tax                       5% of total revenue.
7% of business tax.
Education lcvy                     3% of business tax.
Operating Cost:                         Increase 5 % pa.
Wages and benefits:             0.0232 million Yuan per km.
Maintenancc                     0.0125 million Yuan per km.
Fuel and matenals               0.0014 million Yuan per km.
Administration                  0.0283 million Yuan per km.
0.0016 million Yuan per km.
Depreciation                        30 years straight-line method.
0%
The IBRD          5.00% on 20 year matunties, LIBOR USS based singie currency
including 5 years grace pcriod:
Capital maintenance (million Yuan/lkn)     Routine (annual)   Major (/10 year)
(Increasc 5 % pa.)                            0.07              0.91
- 46 -



Table 3.1: Shaanxi: Highway Revenue and Expenditure (Ninth Five-Year Plan)
(Y million)
1996       1997       1998      1999    2000     Total
Rcvcnue
I   Roadmaintenancefee                    1,153.26   1,211.58  1,298.00  1,294.67 1,340.00 6,297.51
2   Toll revenue                            363.10     449.07    517.14    774.23  820.01  2,923.55
3   Surcharge on passenger tickets          72.17       86.71    118.02    210.60  378.27   865.77
4   Surehargeon freighttickets               94.02     112.36    154.38    275.51  495.03  1,131.30
5   Financial allocation                        -          -                41.00  118.00   159.00
6   MOC subsidy                             40.00      110.00    305.00    340.00  250.00  1,045.00
7   Statc (SDPC) subsidy                    150.00    :260.00    472.00    467.00  400.00  1,749.00
8   Bank loans                              56.00       50.00     75.00     65.00   93.00   339.00
9   Fund-raised by enterpnse               239.00      924.00  2,867.00  3,488.00 3,992.00 11,510.00
10 Othcr funds                              31.00     201.00     471.00    217.00  72800  1,648.00
Total                                 2,19855    3,404.72  6,277.54   7.173.01 8.614.31 27,668.13
Expenditure:
I   New construction and rehabilitation   1,305.00   2,107.00  4,969.00  5,853.00 7,000.00 21,234.00
2   Tax                                     64.92       58.38     65.24     61.44   61.25   311.23
3   Traffic safety supervision              44.06       39.33     45.07     45.50   45.85   219.81
4   Major maintenancc                       101.33     157.42    170.81    158.77  180.39   768.72
5   Mcdiummaintcnance                       81.15      114.12    120.33    102.42  123.36   541.38
6   Routinemaintenancc                      89.50      121.04    157.24     78.45   87.72   533.95
7   Administration and study                54.47       67.36     77.57    116.13  123.00   438.53
8   Rcpaymentofinterestandprinciple        458.12      740.07    672.28    757.30  992.74  3,620.51
Total                                 2,198.55   3,404.72   6,277.54  7.173.01 8614.31 27,668.13
Total Road Network (cm) -(a)                    40,200     41,202     42,303    43,212  44,225  211,142
Average annual increase                           --      2.5%      27%        2.1%    2.3%    2.4%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b)/ l  271.98  392.58   448.38    339.64  391.47  1,844.05
Averageunitmaint.cxpenditurcCOOOY/km)-(b)/(a)     6.77       9.53      10.60      7.86    8.85     8.73
Average annual increase                          --      40.8%      11.2%    -25.8%   12.6%    6.90%
1 : Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
Actual: 2001; best cstimate: 2002, forecast: 2003 thcreaftcr.
- 47 -



Table 3.2: Shaanxi: Highway Revenue and Expenditure (Tenth Five-Year Plan)
(Y million)
2001      2002     2003     2004      2005     Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                 1,15326    1,420.00  1,506.00  1,59600  1,692.00  1,79300
2 Toll rcvcnuc                           917.15   1,044.19  1,300.00  2,300 00  2,900 00  8,461.34
3 Surchargc on passcngcr tickets          72.17     86 71   822 21    820.00   820.00    820.00
4 Surchargc on frcight tickets            94.02    112.36  1,078.61  1,080.00  1,080.00  1,080.00
5 Financial allocation                        -    200.00   200.00    200.00   200.00    200.00
6 MOC subsidy                            800.00    800.00   800 00    800 00   800.00   4,000 00
7 Statc (SDPC) subsidy                   150.00    900.00  1,200.00  1,500.0()  1,600.00  1,800.00
8 Bank loans                              90.00     90.00   10 00     110 00   110.00    500.00
9 Fund-raiscd by cntcrpnsc               239.00   4,000.00  4,300 00  4,600 00  5,000.00  5,500.00
10 Othcr funds                           1,500.00  2,800.00  3,300.00  4,000.00  4,600.00  16.20000
Total                                 11.727979 13840 19 15,296.00  17,602.0 19,803 00  78,26916
Expcnditurc:
I New construction and rehabilitation   1,305.00  2,10700  9,010.00  1 1,070.0(0 12,492 00  14,618.00
2 Tax                                     69.93     77.66    78 00     79 00    81.00    385.59
3 Traffic safcty supervision              44.06     46.30    47.00     48.00    49.00     50 00
4Major maintcnancc                       101.33    201.31   21240     214.00   22700     231.00
5 Mcdium maintcnancc                      8115     150.71   158.00     15600   165.00     174.00
6Routinc maintenance                      89.50    112.15    118.50    11300    119.00    120.00
7Administration and study                 5447     137.57   156.63    195.00   345.00    435.00
8 Rcpayment of interest and principlc    458 12    740.07  2,000.00  2,000 00  2,000.00  2,000 00
Total                                 11,727.97  13.840 19 15,296 00  17,602.0  19,803.00  78,269.16
Total Road Nctwork (km) -(a)                    45,273    46,250   47,000    48,000   49,000    235,523
Average annual incrcase                        2.4%      22%       1.6%     2 1%     2.1%      20%
Total maintenancc expcnditurc (million Yuan)-(b)/LI  464.17  488.90  48300    51100   525.00   2,472.07
Avcrage unit maint. cxpenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  10.25  10 57   10.28     10 65    10.71     10.50
Avcrage annual increasc                        15.8%     3.1%     -2.8%     3.6%     06%        1 1%
/_I. Sum of major, medium and routine maintenancc.
Actual: 2001; best estimate: 2002, forecast- 2003 thereafter.
-48-



APPENnlX 1
EIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Summary:
Display Range is from -5.0% to 40.0% (EIRR in %)
Entirc Range is from -0.9% to 53.3% (EIRR in %)
After 937 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.3%
Statistics:                            Value       Pereentiles:
Trials                             937
Mean                             14.7%                            Pcrcentile  (EIRR in 0/6)
Median                           13.7%                                  0%          -0.9,b
Mode                                -                  10%h                         4.00%46
Standard Deviation               8.6%        Low Scenario              200/o        7.1 %
Variance                         0.7%                                  30%          9.2%
Skewncss                          0.72       Most Likely               40%         11.8%
Kurtosis                          3.64          -         -            500/        13.7%
Cocff. of Variability             0.58       High Scenario             60%         15.9%/D
Rangc Minimum                    -0.9%                                 700%        18 5%.
Range Maximum                   53.3%                                  800%        21.5%
Range Width                     54.2%                                  900h        26.1%
Mean Std. Error                 0.28%                                  100%        53.3%
Forecast: Total 6 Main Highways
937 Trials                        Frequency Chart                          8 Outliers
030                           . ......                                  28
e.      |............                                                    214
0151
07_                 0'Z    '''''''          ''.'''''''.              ,
.5O%           6 3%           17 5%          28 8%          40 0%
(EIRR c, %)
Value of the VOC                                   Traffic growth
Triangular distribution with parameters:           Normal distribution with parametcrs:
Minimum               90.0%                        Mcan                    100.0%
Likeliest            100.0%                        Standard Dcv.            10.0%
Maximum              110.0%                        Selected rangc is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%             Mean value in simuilation was 100 1%
Mean value in simulation was 100.2%
- 49 -



APPENDIX 2
FIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Summary:
Display Range is from -12.5% to 17.5% (in %)
Entire Range is from -15.6% to 17.6% (in %/6)
Aftcr 968 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.2%
Statistics:                           Valuc       Pcrcentilcs:
Trials                            968
Mcan                             3.1%                          Pcrecntilc    fjn %)
Median                           3.5%                                0%      -15.6%
Modc                               --                               100/0    -3 5%
Standard Deviation               5 1%       Low Scenario            200/%    -0.8%
Variancc                         0.3%                               30%/o      0.8%
Skewness                         -0.56      Most Likely             40%       2.3%
Kurtosis                          3.70                              50%       3.5%
Cocff. of Variability             1.65      High Sccnario           60%       4.6%
Range Minimum                  -15.6%                               700/%      5.9%
Range Maximum                   17.6%                               80%       7.3%
Range Width                     33.2%                               90%/u      9.1%
Mean Std. Error                 0.16%                              100%       17.6%
Forecast: EIRR
968 Trials                     Frequency Chart                      10 Outliers
034                                                                33
026                                 ..                                  1     i 1111 -24 75
Cl   017                                                                16   5
.125%         -6.0%          25%           10 0%         175%
(in %)
Assumptidons
Traffic Growth Rate                               Toll Charges
Normal distribution with parameters:              Normal distribution with paramctcrs:
Mean                    100.0%                    Mcan                 100.0%
Standard Dev.            10.0%                    Standard Dcv          10.0%
Sciected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity     Selected rangc is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean valuc in simulation was 99.9%                Mean valuc in simulation was 99 6%
Total Working Cost
Triangular distribution with parametcrs:
Minimum                  90.0%
Likelicst               100.0%
Maximum                 110.0%
Sclected rangc is from 90.00/% to I 10.00/o
Mcan valuc in simulation was 100.00/o
- 50 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty       Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Iniplementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/23/1994               5   TASK MANAGER (1),
ENGINEERING (1),
INSI'ITUTIONAL
STREINGTHENING AND
TRAINING (IST) (1),
ENVIRONMENT (1),
RESETTLEMENT (I)
04/01/1995                8   TASIC MANAGER (1),
ENGINEERING (1), IST (1),
ENVIRONMENT (1),
RESETTLEMENT (1), RIPA
(1), SAFETY(I), OPER
OFFICER (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/10/1995                9   TASK MANAGER (1),
ENGINEERING (1), [ST
(1), ECONOMIST(l),
ENVIRONMENT (1),
RESETTLEMENT (1),
RIPA (1), SAFETY (1),
OPER. OFFICER (1)
01/29/1996                5   TASK MANAGER (1),
ENGINEERING (1),
ECONOMIST (1), LAWYER
(1), DISBURSEMENT (1)
Supervision
07/04/1996                3   OPER OFFICER, RMC (1);         S            S
ENGR/PROCU/ECONOMICS
(1); EINVIRONMENT (1)
08/08/1997                3   ENGR/ECONOMICS (1);            S            S
PROCUREMENT (1);
DISB3URSEMENT (I)
07/27/1998                5   FORMER TASK MANAGER            S            S
(I); IPROCUREMENT (1); NEW
ENGINEER (I); OPERATION
ASSISTANT (I); CONS/SPN
OF FLURAL RDS (I)
03/29/1999                3   TASK MANAGER (I);              S            S
HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
CONS/SPN OF RURAL RDS (1)
10/24/1999                2  TTL (1); TRAFFIC SYSTEMS        S            S
EXPERT (1)
10/24/1999                2   HIGHWAY ENGINEER (I);          S            S
-51 -



RIPA ENGINEER (1)
04/27/2000                 3  TASK MANAGER (1); SR.            S           5
HWY ENGINEER (2)
09/16/2000                 5  TASK MANAGER (1); ENV.           S           S
ENGINEER (I); E & M
EXPERT (1); HIGHWAY
MAIN./SAFETY (1); RIPA
CONSULTANT (1)
03/15/2001                 3  TASK MANAGER (I); HWY            S            S
ENGINEER (I); HWY
MAINTENANCE/SAFETY (I)
11/08/2001                3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S           5
HWY ENGINEER (I); HWY
MAINTENANCE/SAFETY (1)
04/10/2002                 4  TASK TEAM LEADER (I);            S            5
HWY ENGINEER (I); HWY
MAINTENANCE/SAFETY (I);
PROCUREMENT (I)
09/14/2002                 4  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S
HWY ENGINEER (I);
DISBURSEMENT
(1 );ECONOMIC
ANALYSIS(I); RESETTLEMEN
T (I)
ICR
11/13/2002                1    HWY ENGINEER                    S            5
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            41.6                     145.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                 37.9                     101.7
Supervision                           92.4                     366.4
ICR                                    3.5                      13.9
Total                                175.4                     627.5
- 52 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
2 Macro policies                         OH    OSUOM      ON    O NA
0 Sector Policies                        OH    O SUO M    ON    O NA
0 Physical                               OH, OSUOM        ON    O NA
0 Financial                              OH    O SUOM     ON    O NA
2 Institutional Development              O H   0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           O H   O SU O M   O N   O NA
Social
M Poverty Reduction                * H  O SU O M    O N   O NA
M Gender                           O H   C) SU O M  O N   * NA
N Other (Please specify)           O H   O SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
Resettlement
Z Private sector development             0 H   C) SU 0 M  0 N   0 NA
E Public sector management               0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
FII Other (Please specify)               O H   C) SU O M  O N   O NA
- 53 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            *HS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                        OHS OS        Ou    OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
F Preparation                                        *HS OS        OU    O HU
Z Government implementation performance              0 HS O S      0 U   0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                  O HS O s      0 u   0 HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS        0 U   O HU
- 54 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, February 5, 1996.
The World Bank, Loan Agreement, Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project Between The People's
Republic of China and Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development, April 17, 1996
Shaanxi Provincial Transportation Department, Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project,
Environmental Assessment Summary, September 1995.
Shaanxi Provincial Transportation Department, Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project,
Resettlement Completion Report, September 2002.
Shaanxi Provincial Transportation Department, Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, Monitoring
Indicators for 2001, September 2002.
- 55 -






MAP SECTION






RUSSIAN   ''10                        109 
.  v.  - ,.-?pFEDERATI              .  p                T           ,
*     dMONGOSA    !               p oe,,nonooy                              '
4;                        HUBEI                   03
-.- l-hi  ol  Ze  \  8 - ,J  .....  -.: .  . .  .  .  xi. ng4/ 
=   P 0R.  ,-_38                     (-P                <    ,Xi,t        2
H-g
106         lwy-ch-on  -.
CHINA                  Din gb-,on
SHAANXI HIGHWAY PROJECT                            S;/  h
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
-     PROPOSED PROJECT (COMPLETED) /  '.. )
_ EXISTING HIGH GRADE HIGHWAY                 '37-
NATIONAL ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS          ,                                Toncho  SHA NXI
RAILROADS    C
I-I-I NAVIGABLE RIVERS
- .-'RIVERS 
AIRPORTS
0  SELECTED TOWNS  S                           G..gqI
PROVINCE CAPITAL
-  '-PREECTURE BOUNDARIES
- *-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES G
34,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y
U~_,, ToCHnndo
-~~~ 35                             t     X               H   e
J {"- _ j KiaLinbig (! 9 !HENAN
- 3A -(              9  f /_>Tabi     v  ~    7   r  1  \/
Zh.                        III a
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Y   Xi.. >  '-5 > N=zen  izhn  v c  <| -         3
/~~~~~~/ \ ~~~~~~~~~~Beibc .,;;<
f od 5 X >> 1 \, d - P ~~~~HUBEI
S    i                    SIYUN. Xi$-f-                       Lc\( i o=nn
s/   <2   <  8          /    \ 4 \  -  _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  Zhenpin  0q  25  50  7  32- 
T. r Ched  (t63p j7                                                    loER 
W       ~~~~~             ~~1 07-  T. N-h.lg  1 08-  109-    5I I 0-  






IBRD 270A8
6,X  L   X                    R _@     S     / U                                                                          K       \S         JE?           RUSSIAN FEDERATION
A                                                                                           B           USA
L.stoHg                 ~~~LANTIAN-XIAOSHANGYUAN                                                                                        SOH
T~~~NOCOHO ~~~~~~HIGHWAY AND LINK WITH                                                                                               PHAOXIN                       7'VIOJ.N
TERRA-COTTA WARRIORS MUSEUM
MONGOLIA
XIANX                      /1                          4anSC      UG FT  1SE^e0  |  |IOHEV1VS         zh0091,o                                              -. $OVO I  1,0_ _5 ,IL/ ETER
PROVINCE                         -   -
)  y  \  2  J                   t     9   |    \>-AJnhub                    <                    /              <      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SHANHU  . .   ..
Yll9ZNU0n9   ZhoOgI.opIogll=P>                 \         GGLoon,        WEINAN-TONGGUAN EXPRESSWAY
ShllLlzhLzlv-<\ Wongshwon >                                                     / lX  X  O S 10 IIS K LOMETEF5 n 1 51CHUAN N ~~~~~~~~~~~0  10  5  LOETE'
Looq                                                                                                                                      SIYN A RIP            -  _    '-;
HAANXI PROV      -C 
C H I NNlge                          oIe oA                                                                                                                        D-  - 
SHAANXI         C1HIGH      AY        PROJECT                                                                                                                                      N ,go  oen  opg~SI Zr EJI MNC L
PROPOSED HIGHWAYS                      Y.d                                                                                                            NINGXIA l  j 01  / 39
-------' LINKING ROADS                                    /h.
t@ NTERCHANGES                                          Pfn
-C- TOLL STATIONS                                                                                                                -o                                                       SHANXI
-3     EXISTING INTERCHANGE
   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                    GANSU
*   PROVINCE CAPITAL                                         _O 1000 15000 KlloMErEEs                                                                                   ,,
* NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                              S          s
-      NATIONAL ROADS
    EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION         /          /                                                                                                                                     a
OTHER MAJOR ROADS                                                                 ~                                                                      o    oIE
RAILROADS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                       1)
INTERNATIONAL bOUNDARIES                                       ;                     /0 OOh
VhobondorIe.eeooIo,d0Jommos,,onoondoo 0hn ,,,isn,Vsrm ,sfn  /I\                                             S,\  ongloahel                                GI,;I        H,,.. f  __
A.- wo ,nhopd. no-ply on IHp,, d ITIWorIdHonGk Go-p                                                                       TONGCHUAN-HUANGLING                       -            N      _    R
OMy1Od OTN.Oe  00e      , -n0 ,oOIVo,ooVeodO-Se-.,  PAMENObJIAN ZHANGTANGYU                                                   CLASS I HIGHWAY                    SICUANHUBEI
OO OSC NOO0LNSUS,h o-doOe-                           CLASS 11 AUTO-ONLY HIGHWAY                           Tonoo     /             5 0      IS OOIOOETERS
0     5    10  IS KILOMETERS                               Teosongehon
OCTOBER 1995



