Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3986 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 17, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3986 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
The Project will be carried out by Shaanxi Province (Shaanxi) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Shaanxi the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Shaanxi;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"First Year RIPA Environmental Action Plans" means the Environmental 
Action Plan for New Road Construction Projects in System No. 46 of the RIPA and the 
Environmental Action Plan for Road Upgrading Projects in System Nos. 4, 9, 36 and 41 
of the RIPA, each dated August 1995, in respect of RIPA (as hereinafter defined) 
Sub-projects included in the work plan for the first year of implementation of Part B 
of the Project, setting out environmental protection measures as well as
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said 
measures;
(b)
"First Year RIPA Resettlement Action Plans" means the Resettlement Action 
Plan for Road No.9 under RIPA and the Resettlement Action Plan for Road No.  10 under 
RIPA, each dated August 1995, in respect of RIPA Sub-projects included in the work 
plan for the first year of implementation of Part B of
the Project, setting out procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and 
compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance 
with said plans;
(c)
"High-grade Highways" means the highways, including the respective 
related facilities, to be constructed or upgraded under Part A of the Project;
(d)
"High-grade Highway EAPs" means, collectively, the environmental action 
plans for the High-grade Highways, including the respective linking roads, which set 
out environmental protection measures as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said
measures, dated September 1995 (Environmental Action Plans for each of Parts A (1) 
(a), (b) and (c) and Part A (2) of the Project) and August 1995 (Environmental Action 
Plans for each of Parts A (1) (d) and (e) of the Project), and "High-grade Highway 
EAP" means any one of the High-grade Highway EAPs;
(e)
"High-grade Highway RAPs" means, collectively, the resettlement action 
plans for the High-grade Highways, including the respective linking roads, which set 
out the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well 
as reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan, dated 
August 1995 (Resettlement Action Plans for each of Parts A (1) (a), (b), (c), (d) and 
(e) of the Project) and December 1995 (Resettlement Action Plan for Part A (2) of the 
Project), and "High-grade Highway RAP" means any one of the High-grade Highway RAPs;
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Shaanxi of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"RIPA" means Shaanxi's Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation Program 
to rehabilitate, upgrade and construct road systems in selected counties in Shaanxi in 
order to provide the rural population of such counties better access to the main 
provincial highways;
(h)
"RIPA Sub-project" means a rural road project covering a number of road 
segments selected for financing under Part B of the Project in accordance with Part B 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"SHGHAB" means the Shaanxi High-grade Highway Administration Bureau, an 
agency of the Shaanxi Provincial Government, and any successor thereto;
(j)
"SPHAB" means the Shaanxi Province Highway Administration Bureau, an 
agency of the Shaanxi Provincial Government, and any successor thereto;
(k)
"PTD" means the Shaanxi Province Transport Department, a department of 
the Shaanxi Provincial Government, and any successor thereto; and
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred and ten million dollars ($210,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
Page  4
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Shaanxi to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Shaanxi therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shaanxi to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Shaanxi on 
the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Shaanxi shall be the 
equivalent in 
dollars (determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account or payment out of 
the Special Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan;
(ii)
Shaanxi shall repay the principal amount so made available to it 
over a period of 
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period 
of five (5) years; and
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge: (A) interest on the principal amount so 
made available 
and withdrawn and remaining unpaid from time 
to time at a rate equal to the rate of 
interest applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and (B) a 
commitment charge on the principal amount so made available 
and not withdrawn  from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)  shall be carried out by 
Shaanxi pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related  
withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all actions, 
including the provisions of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate for the construction of the connection between Yangjia and Baijiazhai 
in Henan Province in accordance with standards and specifications acceptable to the 
Bank, such construction to be completed no later than December 31, 1999, or such other 
date as the Bank may establish, in accordance with the construction schedule of the 
High-grade Highway between Weinan and Tongguan in Shaanxi Province under Part A (1) of 
the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shaanxi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shaanxi will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Shaanxi and is legally
binding upon Shaanxi in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC  CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64l45 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Page  7
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category                     Dollars)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works
    (a) under Part A (1)        129,000,000      44%
        of the Project
    (b) under Part A (2)          6,000,000      44%
        of the Project
    (c) under Part B             23,900,000      37%
        of the Project
(2) Supply and installation       6,800,000      80%
    of electronic, electric and
    mechanical equipment
    under Part A of the Project
(3) Goods                         8,300,000      100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost) and
                                                 75% of local expendi-
                                                 tures for other items
                                                 procured locally
(4) Consultants' services        5,200,000       100%
    and training
(5) Unallocated                 30,800,000
                               ___________
     TOTAL                     210,000,000
                               ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
 
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1995 may be made in respect 
of Categories (1)(b) and (4) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000; and
(b)
no withdrawals under Category 1(c) shall be made in respect of payments 
made for expenditures for any RIPA Sub-project until such Sub-project has been 
Page  8
approved by the Bank in accordance with Part B of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for works under Parts A and B of the Project under contracts not 
exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent;
(b)
goods, including supply and installation of electronic, electric and 
mechanical equipment under Part A of the Project, under contracts not exceeding 
$250,000 equivalent;
(c)
for consultants' services under contracts with firms or individuals not 
exceeding $100,000 and $ 50,000 equivalent, respectively; and
(d)
for training;
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the continuing development of 
road infrastructure in Shaanxi in order to stimulate economic activity; (b) to assist 
in the implementation of Shaanxi's poverty alleviation strategy for the poorer 
counties by the provision of better road access; (c) to increase the safety of road 
transport; and (d) to improve highway sector institutional capacity in Shaanxi.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Construction, Upgrading and Maintenance of High-grade Highways
 
(1)
Construction of  five high-grade highways in Shaanxi Province consisting of:  
(a) a four-lane expressway of about 78 kilometers (km) between Weinan and Tongguan; 
(b) a four-lane Class I  highway of about 73 km between Tongchuan and Huangling and 
doubling of the existing 18 km two-lane Class II highway
between Yaoxian and Tongchuan; (c) a two-lane Class II auto only  highway of about 48 
km between Lantian and Xiaoshangyuan; (d) a two-lane Class II auto only highway of 
about 6 km between Lintong and the Terra Cotta Warriors Museum; and (e) a two-lane 
Class II auto only highway of about 35 km between the Famen
Buddhist Temple and Tangyu; including the supply and installation of electrical, 
electronic and mechanical equipment for toll collections, traffic monitoring, 
telecommunications and lighting; the construction of management and maintenance 
buildings, parking and service areas; and the upgrading and
construction of about 8 km of linking roads at interchanges.
(2)
Upgrading of a Class I highway of about 32 km between Xian and Sanyuan in 
Shaanxi Province, including provision of full control of access, installation of 
traffic safety devices and installation of a telecommunication system.
(3)
Provision of equipment for operation and maintenance of the High-grade Highways.
 
Part B:
Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation
 
Improvement and new construction of about 4,100 km of rural road segments under 
Shaanxi's Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation Program in order to provide the 
rural population of poorer counties better access to the main provincial highways.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening and Training
 
(1)
Development of staff capabilities of SPTD, SHGHAB and SPHAB and their respective 
affiliated institutions, including the Shaanxi Provincial Traffic School, the Shaanxi 
Provincial Traffic Technical School, SPTD's Staff Training Center, the Shaanxi 
Page  9
Provincial Highway Research Institute, the Shaanxi
Provincial Highway Survey Design Institute and other institutions acceptable to the 
Bank, through intensive training in the areas of  highway planning and analysis; 
high-grade highway design, construction supervision and operations; project 
implementation management; highway maintenance; traffic
engineering and traffic safety; and highway investment planning.
(2)
Strengthening of technical capabilities of SPTD, SHGHAB and SPHAB through the 
provision of equipment to support training activities, highway research, construction 
supervision activities, environmental protection monitoring, routine maintenance and 
heavy repair of roads other than High-grade
Highways.
(3)
Carrying out of:  (a) a study of the alternative alignments of the Xian 
East-West Bypass, and (b) a study of road maintenance.
Part D:
Road Safety Program
 
Implementation of a program for road safety improvement consisting of: (a) 
improvement of traffic safety coordination among the different responsible 
institutions, (b) enhancement of capacity to report and analyze  traffic accidents, 
(c) a pilot accident black spot improvement program, and (d) an evaluation of the 
driver training system, through the provision of technical assistance and training, 
including equipment required therefor.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
November 15, 2001                             
4,420,000
May 15, 2002                                  
4,550,000
November 15, 2002                             
4,685,000
May 15, 2003                                  
4,825,000
November 15, 2003                             
4,970,000
May 15, 2004                                  
5,120,000
November 15, 2004                             
5,275,000
May 15, 2005                                  
5,430,000
November 15, 2005                             
5,595,000
May 15, 2006                                  
5,760,000
November 15, 2006                             
5,935,000
May 15, 2007                                  
6,110,000
November 15, 2007                             
6,295,000
May 15, 2008                                  
6,485,000
November 15, 2008                             
6,680,000
May 15, 2009                                  
6,875,000
November 15, 2009                             
7,085,000
May 15, 2010                                  
7,295,000
November 15, 2010                             
7,515,000
May 15, 2011                                  
7,740,000
November 15, 2011                             
7,970,000
May 15, 2012                                  
8,210,000
November 15, 2012                             
8,455,000
May 15, 2013                                  
8,710,000
November 13, 2013                             
8,970,000
May 15, 2014                                  
9,240,000
November 15, 2014                             
9,515,000
May 15, 2015                                  
9,800,000
November 15, 2015                            
      10,095,000
May 15, 2016                                 
      10,390,000
 
Page  10
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4)  
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$17,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $50,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  11
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
