Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3986 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHAANXI PROVINCE
Dated April 17, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3986 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHAANXI PROVINCE (Shaanxi).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to two hundred and ten million dollars ($210,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Shaanxi agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS Shaanxi, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shaanxi declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shaanxi shall otherwise agree, Shaanxi shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  (a) Shaanxi shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Shaanxi shall:
(i)
prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and Shaanxi, 
a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Shaanxi on said 
plan.
 
Section 2.04.(a) Shaanxi shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Shaanxi shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Shaanxi of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shaanxi shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Shaanxi responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Shaanxi shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  3
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shaanxi 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Shaanxi thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Shaanxi:
Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department
Xincheng
Xian 710004
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
2201 Xian
700259 SPTD CN
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shaanxi may be 
taken or executed by Governor or Vice Governor of Shaanxi or such other person or 
persons as Governor or Vice Governor of Shaanxi shall designate in writing, and  
Shaanxi shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHAANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix  2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.42 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  5
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, may be procured for up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000 
equivalent under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Part C, works for Parts A and B of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $59,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works and Force Account
 
(a)
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereunder, works for Part B of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $23,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
(b)
For RIPA Sub-projects located in mountainous or remote areas, works under 
Part B of the Project which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, 
and estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per assignment, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $15,900,000 equivalent, may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
(c)
Works under Part A(2) of the Project and  for black spot improvement 
under Part D of the Project, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, and estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per assignment, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,800,000 equivalent, may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with 
the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract:  (a) for works under Parts A and B of the Project 
estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more; and (b) for goods estimated to cost 
more than $250,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (i) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising  the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Parts A and B of the Project: Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement .
 
1.
In respect of Part A of the Project, Shaanxi shall:
 
(a)
carry out each High-grade Highway EAP and each High-grade Highway RAP in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in paragraph (a) 
above to the Bank for its prior approval.
2.
In respect of Part B of the Project,
 
(a)
Shaanxi declares its commitment to the Bank's policies on (i) protection 
of the environment, and (ii) resettlement and compensation for persons whose standard 
of living or whose right, title or interest to house, land or other assets are 
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, by implementation of the Project.
(b)
To this end, Shaanxi shall: (i) prior to commencing construction on a 
RIPA Sub-project, furnish to the Bank an environmental action plan and resettlement 
action plan for such RIPA Sub-project satisfactory to the Bank, prepared in accordance 
with the basic policies, planning principles and institutional arrangements applied in 
the First Year RIPA EAPs and First Year RIPA RAPs; and (ii) thereafter, carry out such 
environmental action plan and resettlement action plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and
(c)
For any RIPA Sub-project which involves new road construction, 
substantial widening, or land acquisition or special areas such as national parks, 
Page  7
natural reserves and areas of significant cultural heritage, Shaanxi shall furnish to 
the Bank an environmental impact assessment satisfactory to
the Bank in addition to the environmental action plan referred to in paragraph (b) 
above.
3.
Shaanxi shall, in respect of Parts A and B of the Project:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the High-grade Highway EAPs and RAPs, and the environmental action 
plans and resettlement action plans in respect of the RIPA Sub-projects; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) an annual environmental monitoring report during the construction phase 
and for each of the first three (3) years following completion of construction; (ii) 
by March 31 and September 30 of each year starting September 30, 1996, internal 
monitoring reports prepared by appropriate agencies of Shaanxi, and by June 30 and 
December 31 of each year starting December 31, 1996, external monitoring reports 
prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank, regarding the implementation 
and impact of the resettlement activities during the previous six months.
B.
Part B of the Project: RIPA Sub-projects
 
1.
Shaanxi shall select each RIPA Sub-project on the basis of technical and 
socio-economic criteria acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Shaanxi shall prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval, by June 30 of 
each year, an annual work plan and budget for the following year, such annual work 
plan to nclude, inter alia:  (a) all RIPA Sub-projects proposed for the year; (b) an 
economic and social benefit analysis using indicators acceptable to the Bank; (c) an 
implementation and supervision schedule; (d) a maintenance plan; and (e)
environmental action plans and resettlement action plans in respect of all the 
proposed RIPA Sub-projects as described in paragraph 2(b) of Part A of this Schedule, 
all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
C.
Part C of the Project: Institutional Strengthening and Training
 
1.
Shaanxi shall: (a) carry out the training under Part C (1) of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and (b) to that end, 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, by June 30 of each year commencing in 
1996, a rolling two-year training implementation schedule.
2.
Shaanxi shall: (a) maintain a review panel satisfactory to the Bank to guide a 
study  of the Xian East-West Bypass and provide comments on the results and 
recommendations of said study; (b) by August 31, 1997 complete such study in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish
the study to said panel and the Bank for review; and (c) take appropriate steps to 
implement the recommendations of such study, taking into account the comments of  said 
review panel and the Bank.
3.
Shaanxi shall: (a) by June 30, 1996 establish a Leading Group to guide a study 
on highway maintenance and provide comments on the results and recommendations of said 
study; (b) by December 31, 1998 complete said study in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish the
study together with the comments of said Leading Group to the Bank for review; and (c) 
take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of said study, taking into 
consideration the comments thereon of said Leading Group and  the Bank.
4.
Shaanxi shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by April 30 of 
each year commencing in 1997 until 2003, an annual highway maintenance report which 
shall (a) indicate the length and condition of each class of road; (b) establish 
targets for the following year, including an estimate
of the required physical works and the costs thereof; and (c) measure  the results and 
the actual expenditures of the past year against the targets and the budgeted funds 
therefor.
5. 
Shaanxi shall, by June 30, 1999, furnish to the Bank for its review and 
Page  8
comments, an analysis and recommendation of the structure of toll-rates on the 
High-grade Highways taking into consideration the results of studies on toll-rates 
structures conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the 
experience with toll-rates on major roads in Shaanxi and other parts of China.
D.
Part D of the Project:  Road Safety Program
 
1.
Shaanxi shall maintain: (a) a Leading Group, which shall include representatives 
from SPTD and  from the provincial agency responsible for traffic safety, for traffic 
safety coordination, policy-making and planning, with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) a Traffic Safety Unit within SPTD, with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, to serve as the secretariat for said Leading 
Group and to carry  out the pilot black spot improvement program described in 
paragraph 2(a) below.
2.
Shaanxi shall, pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (a) by 
December 31, 2000 complete a black spot identification and improvement program; (b) by 
December 31, 1998 complete a study of the driver training system; and (c) by December 
31, 2001 have an expert acceptable to the Bank prepare an evaluation of its Road 
Safety Program according to indicators acceptable to the Bank.
E.
Reporting and Monitoring
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, Shaanxi shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank 
and submit to the Bank: (a) a monthly report of  the progress of works for the 
High-grade Highways; (b) a quarterly report of the progress of implementation of all 
components of the Project; and (c) by March 31 of each year commencing in 1997 and 
ending three (3) years after completion of the Project, an annual monitoring report in 
a form satisfactory to the Bank covering all components of the Project and assessing 
the extent to which various implementation and development objectives have been 
obtained in the course of Project execution and operation.
