Doiunlt of
The World Bank
FOR OrFICIAL USE ONLY
RepqotN 12550
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2283-IN)
NOVEMBER 22. 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12550
Type: PCR
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II (India)
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwbe be disclosed without World Oank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES AND ABBREVIATIONS
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs, 1     Paise 100
Runee (Rs.)/USS Exchance Rates and CPI (Yearly Averages)
Consumer Price Index
Fiscal Year          Runees/USS                FY80/81=100
FY83 'Project
appraisal &
approval)          10.10 /I
FY84                    11.36
FY85                    12.37                  133.3
FY86                    12.61                  141.2
FY87                    12.96                  148.0
FY88                    13.92                  163.2
PY89                    16.23                  176.3
FY90                    17.50                  190.6
FY91                    22.74                  216.3
FY92                    26.20                  237.0 (estimate)
/a Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report
were made at Rs 9.5/US$.
Government of India and
National Thermal Power Corporation
Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31
neasures and gouivalents
I ToO (t)                =  1 metric ton-l,000 kg.=2,200 lbs.
1 Kilovolt (kV)          =  1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (JcA) -  1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Kilowatt-hour   (kVh)  *  1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour   (MWh) *  1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigadatt-hour   (GWh)  5  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CEA         Central Electricity Authority
DESU        Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
GOI         Government of India
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
IDA         International Development Association
MOU         Memoranda of Understanding
NHPC        National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NPTC        National Power Transmission Corporation
NT2C        National Thermal Power Corporation
POWERMRID   Power Grid Corporation of India
ROR         Rate of Return
SEBs        State Electricity Boards



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngto D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-Gue:al
Operations Evaluatton
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ANP THE PRESIDENT
December 10, 1993
SUBJECTs    ProJect Completion Report on India
Central Power Transmission Proiect (Loan 2283-IN)
Attached in the 'Project Completion Report on India - Central Power
Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Region. Part 1I
-as provided by the Borrower.
The US$250.7 million loan iacreased the capacity of the transmission
grid feeding power from the National Thermal Power Company (NTPC) to the regional
power companies. The Bank approved a revision in the project scope which waa
fully justified under the original project objectives. Almost half of the losn
amount was canceled (US$119.2 million) partly because of foreign currency
savings. There were three extensions and the project was not fully completed at
loan closing.
All the project objectives were substantially obtained albeit with
substantial delays.   The re-estimated economic rate of return is 112 (not
directly comparable with the initial figure because of the change in scope). NIPC
maintained its good financial health but its performance in bill collection has
prompted the Bank to insist on very strong remedial actions by the Goverrment
with respect to the least responsive State Electricity Boards.  The project
strengthened NTPC's transmission planning and project management capacity. The
know how thus acquired was transferred to POWERORID, the recently created
national transmission company.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its
sustainability as likely, and its institutional impact as substantial. The PCR
gives a thorough account of project preparation and implementation which was
mostly uneventful except for the initial delays. No audit is planned.
Ti documnt has a restricted distributio and way be used by recipients only in the performsace of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed without World ank authorizatiou.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
- S~~LOAN 2283-IN).
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .....       .................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............                                      ii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity.                                           1
Project Background ................................         1
Project objectives and Description.                         3
Project Design and Organization.                            4
Project Implementation .S
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation               10
Physical Results .10
NTPC's Financial Performance ..1
Compliance with Loan Covenants .15
Sustainabil4.ty and Internal Economic
Rate of Return .15
Bank Performance .                                         15
Borrower Performance .16
Performance of Consultants and Contractors .17
Project Relationship .18
Project Documentation and Data ....................        18
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... .......    19
PART III  STATISTICAL SUMMARY ...............................          23
ANNEXES
1 Description of the Original Project ......... ........            33
2      Description of the Revised Project .34
3      Availability of Transmission Lines an
Substations in 1992 .35
4.1 Income Statements .36
4.2  Sources and Application of Funds .37
4.3    Balance Sheets ......................................        38
This document has a rcstricted disribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2283-IN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Central Power
Transmiseion Project, for which Loan 2283-IN in the amount of US$250.7 million
was approved on May 19, 1983.  The loan was made to India, acting by its
President, for on-lending to the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC).
The original loan closing date of Marcn 31, 1989, was extended three times and
the loan was closed on March 31, 1992. On December 5, 1991, an amount of
US$S0 million of savings arising mainly because of exchange rate variations
were cancelled from the loan account. Disbursements were completed on
September 8, 1992, and the undisbursed balance of US$69.2 million was
cancelled. Thus, total disbursemants under the loan amounted to US$131.5
million.
On August 16, 1991, the management of the project (operation and
maintenance of the assets in service and implementation of those still under
construction) was transferred from NTPC to the National Power Transmission
Corporation Ltd. (NPTC), the newly established utility responsible for
transmission and grid operations, under a Management Contract signed between
the two Corporations. NPTC was later named Power Grid Corporation of India
Ltd. (POWERGRID). On January 8, 1993, an Ordinance providing for all the
rights, titles and other interests related to the transmission systems of NTPC
and two other centrally-owned utilities', to be transferred to POWERGRID,
with effect from April 1, 1992, was promulgated by the i.re:ident of India.  At
the time of preparation of this PCR, the Bank was in the process of finalizing
the modifications on the Development Credit, Loan and Project Agreements to
formalize the transfer of the Bink loans and IDA credits from NTPC and NHPC to
POWERGRID retroactively with effect from April 1, 1992. With regard to Loan
2283-IN, assets and liabilities for about US$3.4 million remained with NTPC
and assets and liabilities for about US$128.1 million have been transferred to
POWERGRID. The amounts will be finalized after accounts between NTPC and
POWERGRID are settled.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy Operations Division of the
Country Department II (India) of the South Asia Regional Office, and by NTPC
and POWERGRID. The former prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts
I and III of the PCR, while the implementing agencies prepared Part II, and
provided all the supporting data.
Preparation of Parts I and III of the PCR was based on information
in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, and material
on the project in Bank files and that provided by NTPC and POWERGRID. The
preparation was also based c- discussions with some of the Bank staff who were
involved with the project and the officials of the Government of India (GO!),
NTPC, POWERGRID and the project beneficiaries (i.e., State Electricity Boards)
during a PCR mission to India in February 1993.
-   1  National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC) and North-Eastern Electric
Power Corporation (NBEPoO).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(WOAN 2283-Ix)
Evaluation Summarv
Obiectivqs
The two main objectives of the project were: (a) to support 001's
strategy to extend and improve power supply through the establishment of
centrally owned regional grids and intra-regional connections leading to the
promotion of a national grid; and (b) to improve, in the long run, the
operational, institutional and financial performance of the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs), by assisting in the development of a financially sound, and
technically and institutionally competent centrally-owned power utility which
would serve as a model to SEBs (Part I, para. 3.1).
Xmplementat*on ExDerience
NTPC (and, since August 1991, POWERGRID) successfully implemented
the project. Implementation of the project components financed under the loan
was really begun in April 1987, almost four years from Board approval.  The
delay was mostly due to NTPC's decision not to proceed with the implementation
of the 400 kV transmission lines and substations in the Southern Region (major
portion of the Project) until firm agreements were reached with the State
Electricity Boards in the Southern Region on the cost recovery arrangements
for the transmission facilities to be built under the project. In the
meantime, the planning was r-dified by GO and subsequently the description of
the project was amended twice. At appraisal, all the project components were
scheduled to be commissioned by March 1988. At the time the Bank closed the
loan on March 31, 1992, the project was not completed. Supplies and works
amounting 'o US$23.2 million remained - these expenditures are being funded
under Loan 3577-IN, anid are expected to be completed during FY94 (Part I,
paras. 5.2 and 5.10).
Results
Overall the project achieved its physical objectives, albeit with
substantial delays. The project has been the first major component in the
establishment of centrally owned regional grids and intra-regional
connections. The power transmission capacity in the Southern Region has been
increased in a manner which helps optimal utilization of the installed thermal
and hydro capacities in this region and permits for exchanges between the
Southern and Western Regions. The interconnection between the Northern and
the Western Regions is currently used for limited exchanges of power between
the two regions and helps the stability of the systems (Part X, para. 7.1).
The project contributed in making NTPC an efficient utility, but
did not, however, contribute towards the longer-term objective of improving - -
the operational, institutional and financial performance of SEBs (Part I,
7.1).



- iii -
NTPC's financial rate of return an historically valued net fixed
assets declined from a high 17* in FY86 and FY87 to 15%-in FY92 against the
covenanted rate of return of 9.5%.  Because of the changes agreed by the
parties on the project description, it is not possible to make a reasonable
comparison between the internal economic rate of return (IBRR) of the original
and revised project scopes. The IERR for the project ar implemented was
estimated at II% (Part I, paras. 8.1 and 10.2).
Sustainabilitv
The project is sustainable, even though at present its components
are not yet being fully utilized. Sustainability is certainly assured for the
future, as the facilities built under the project are integral components of
the transmission system development program in India (Part I, para. 10.1).
Insufficient generation and transmission tariffs and an unchecked
increase of NTPCs and POWERGRXD's accounts receivable could endanger such
sustainability. The Bank, GOI, NTPC and POWERGEID have been taking actions to
avoid such occurrence.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Major findings are as follows:
a) The project was not completely finalized when the Bank approved it - the
first transmission line equipment contract was awarded in March 88, four
years ten months from the date of approval by the Bank. Furthermore the
specific conditions for effectiveness had to be modified. The long
delay in the start-up of project implementation, and the consequent
project revision, are attributed partly to the Bank not verifying that
there was full agreement and understanding on the part of the SEBs to
pay NTPC for the transmission charges.  NTPC's unwillingness to begin
work before all contracts with the Southern Region SEBs were signed was
not appreciated sufficiently. Therefore, the Bank approved this Loan
prematurely (Part I, paras. 5.1 and 5.2);
b) Once implementation got under way, NTPC implemented the project
successfully, with only minor problems and delays (Part I, para. 5.3);
c) The Bank's agreement on the "revised" project (para. 3.3) which was
determined to require some three additional years for its completion,
gave GOI and NTPC the perception that the loan would be extended until
the completion of the project; therefore, the Bank's decision not to
extend for a fourth time the closing date of the loan came as a surprise
to GOI and NTPC (Part I, para. 5.4);
d) The project contributed to the enhancement of NTPC's (later POWERGEID'.)
expertise in the area of high voltage transmission, created employment
of local labor and helped to the development of local manufacturing
industry (Part I, paras. 5.5 and 5.6);
e) The average time taken from bid opening to the award of the contract
(including Bank acceptance of She proposed award) was generally less
than nine months. In an effort to speed up procurement, standard
bidding documents will in futvre be used by NTPC and PC ERGRID.



- iv -
They would also give further emphasis to finishing promptly the payments
for the contracts, so that the closing dates of new loan(s) would not
need to be extended (*art I, para. 5.7);
f)  By the t_me the Loan was closed India had repaid almost half of the loan
amount utilized (Part I, para. 5.101;
g) The area where NTPC's performance fell considerably short of
e%pectations was in bill recovery. Maintaining a specific level of
accounts receivables was not a condition of this loan and it was only
introduced in 1985 under Loan 2555-IN for the Rihand Power Transmission
Project. Substantial arrears by SEEs affected NTPCs financial position
adversely (Part I. paras. 8.2 and 12.2);
h) GO! interventions through the central appropriations helped NTPC
resolve, albeit for limited periods, its accounts receivable problem.
These interventions aimed at having NTPC operate efficiently, thus keep
the electric energy supply at an adequate level. It is doubtful that
0OI's actions have led to SEBs improving their operational efficiency
and their billing and collection procedures and practices. What is
equally important, but so far received little attention, is the need for
energy conservation on the customer side through adoption of appropriate
tariffs and tariff structure at SEBs and through end-use efficiencies
(Part 1, para. 8.4);
i) The SAM adopted the conventional rate of return (ROR) on average
historic fixed assets in operation as the sole covenant for NTPC's
financial performance. This performance indicator is less appropriate
for a fast growing utility where the utility's major concern is to
ensure the availability of adequate funds for investment. Furthermore,
when the revenues collected are substantially lower than the revenues
accrued (due to the large accounts receivable), the financial
performance indicators such as ROR, operating ratio, etc., are less
meaningful (Part I, para. 8.6);
j) A more appropriate covenant would have been a cash generation covenant,
e.g. "contribution towards investment" which would have also highlighted
the deterioration in NTPC's performance (Part $, para. 8.6); and
k) Bank's position (only partially shared by GO!) is that the electricity
industry provides a service which has to be fully paid through user-
charges. The perception of the State Governments and SEBe, perhaps for
political reasons, is that provision of electricity is partly a social
service. The transfer of funds to NTPC through central appropriations
is but another subsidy (whether it comes from GOS or from SEB), and not
a direct payment through tariffs (Part I, para. 12.4).



Major lessons learned from this project are -summarized below:
a)  As a precondition for further Bank loans, more emphasis should be given
to improving the commercial arrangements between NTPC and its clients.
However, this has proved to be difficult to achieve in practice unless
the financial performance of the SEBs i8 improved (Part I, para. 12.4);
b) To enable NIPC to operate on a purely commercial basis, GOI should allow
NTPC to sell to other customers the allocated shares of the SEBs which
do not comply with their agreements with NTPC. In cases where technical
reallocation (by limiting availability of power to a particular SEB)
cannot be implemented, commercial reallocation can be done. This can be
done by limiting allocations to a defaulting SER and charging a stiff
penalty for drawals exceeding the reduced allocation (Part I, para.
12.4); and -
c)  As a result of the changes in the overall economic policy environment
within which WMPC is operating, its financial policies need orientation.
Under the circumstances, it would be appropriate to change the existing
rate of return covenant into a self financing ratio covenant, because it
would not only provide a better monitoring mechanism for NTPC's
financial performance, but also provide better support to NTPC towards
meeting its development challenges tPart I, para. 8.6).
The lessons drawn from this and previous projects implemented by NTPC
have been used in the preparation, appraisal and negotiations of the NTPC
Power Generation Project, which was approved on June 29, 1993:
a) GOI has adopted new investment and commercial policies and electricity
tariffs allowing NTPC to shut-off or restrict power supply if its
clients are in default with their bulk supply agreements. These
policies are designed to introduce better commercial discipline at SEEs,
along with improving NTPC's own operational and financial performance,
including improving revenue collection (para. 12.3);
b) NTPC has agreed with the Bank on an internal cash generation covenant
(para. 8.6);
c) GO: established POWERGRID to: (i) improve the efficiency in power
transmission and systems oper~__ons, through an extensive restructuring
of the transmission sector; and (ii) complement its policy initiatives
to encourage private generation and competition in power generation
(para. 2.6); and
d) The Bank and NTPC agreed on standard bidding documents whose use would
curtail the procurement period (para. 5.7).
The last two points were also taken into account under Loan 3577-IN for
the POWRGRID System Development Project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL POWNER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
{LOAN 2283-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BAKK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Protect Identity
Name                      Central Power Transmission
Loan No                   L Loan 2283-IN
RVP Unit       .          South Asia Region
Country                 : India
Sector                    Energy
Sub-sector              : Power
2. Prolect Backaround
2.1         In India, the responsibility for electricity supply is shared
constitutionally between the Government of India (GOI) and the states. In
addition, India is one of the few developing countries with a vibrant, if
small, private sector presence in public power supply. At independence;
private utilities and licensed local authorities, located in urban areas,
provided about 80* of public electricity supply. GOI opted to embark on an
ambitious electrification program to support the development of power-
intensive industries for a rapid industrial development and expansion of
irrigation. The Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 (the Act) created the state
electricity boards (SEBs) and entrusted the state governments and the boards
with primary responsibility for public power supply. The coordination of
SEBs' activities within the national power development policy, and the
formulation of longer-term plans for power development is the responsibility
of Central Electricity Authority (CEA), established in 195o.
2.2         Between 1960 and 1980, power demand grew twice as fast as the
economy, and the generating capacity increased almost five-fold from about
5,600 MW to about 32,000 MW. Yet, for the entire period the country faced
power shortages, frequent power interruptions, wide variations in system
frequency, and large drops in voltage at the consumer level because SEzs could
not fulfill their responsibilities. Though set up as autonomous bodies, SMUs
have been under the stringent control of their state governments in vital
matters such as changes to tariffs and tariff structure, with the result that
they have not developed commercial and financial disciplines, and their
financial performance generally has been poor, to the extent of depending on
the state governments for operational subsidies.
2.3         In mid-1970s, GOI reoriented its strategy in order to supplement
efforts of SEBs in increasing installed capacity and establishing high voltage
transmission networks. Emphasis was put on: (a) acceleratizg the development
of the hydro power potential and large coal-fired power plants both at pithead
and in the proximity of load centers; (b)-improving the efficiency of thermal
power plants and reducing loses in the tranmission and distribution



-2-
networks; (c) expanding the rural electrification program; and (d}
strengthening the organizational and management capabilities of the SEBs.
2.4         GOI established in 1975 two power generating companies, the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydroelectric Power
Corporation (NHPC) to construct and operate large thermal and hydro power
stations and associated transmission systems. The rapid increase in
generation necessitated to expand the transmission networks and also to
increase the voltage level to handle the transfer of large blocks of power
from generating stations to load centers. Simultaneously, for the first time
a need was felt for power planning and development on a regional basis to
ensure the optimum utilization of natural resources which are rather unevenly
distributed over the country and also for enhancing the reliability and
security of the power transmission systems. The country was divided into five
contiguous regions (Northern, North Eastern, Eastern, Western and Southern)
with a view to build regional integrated grids.  Regional Electricity Boards
(REBS were established to integrate the operations of each grid through
regional load dispatch centers and to improve collaboration among the SEEs.
2.5         By the time the Central -ower Transmission Project was appraised
in October 1982, IDA/Bank had financti under nine operations implemented by
NTPC, 6,800 MM of pithead coal-fired :hermal power plants (TPPs) in four sites
(Singrauli, Korba, Ru-agundam and Farakka) and associated trausmission lines
to evacuate the power generated at these power stations into the networks
owned and operated by SEBs. The project was the 31st Bank/IDA operation in
the sector, and tenth operation with NTPC. As in the previous NTPC projects,
India, acting by its President, was the borrower and NTPC the implementing
agency. The project was developed from studies conducted by CRA with
assistance by Teshmont Inc. consultants from Canada.
2.6         In 1989, G01 established the National Power Transmission
Corporation Ltd. (NPTC) to improve the efficiency in power transmission and
systems operations, through an extensive restructuring of the transmission
sector, and complement its policy initiatives to encourage private generation
and competition in power generation. On August 16, 1991, the management of
the transmission assets (operation and maintenance of the assets in service
and implementation of those still under construction) of NTPC, including the
Project, was transferred to NPTC, under a Management Contract signed between
the two Corporations. Subsequently, two other GOI-owned utilities (NHPC and
the North-Eastern Electric Power eorporation - NEEPCO) which had transmission
lines and substations in operation or under construction, signed similar
management contracts with NPTC. NPTC was later named Power Grid Corporation
of India Ltd. (POWERGRID). On January 8, 1993, an Ordinance providing for all
the rights, titles and other interests related to the transmission systems of
NTPC, NHPC and NEEPCO, to be transferred to POWRMGRID, with effect fram April
1, 1992, was promulgated by the President of India. The Bank supports the
establishment and development of POWERGRID under the US$350 million Loan No.
3577-IN for the POWERGRID System revelopment Project, approved on March 23,
1993. At the time of preparation o. this PCR, the Bank was working on the
finalization of the modifications on the Development Credit, Loan and Project
Agreements to formalize the transfer of the Bank loans and IDA credits from
NTPC and NHPC to POWERGRID, retroactively with effect from April 1, 1992.
With regard to Loan 2283-ZN. assets and liabilities for about US$3.4 million
remained with NTPC and assets and liabilities for about US$128.12 million have
been transferred to POWERGRID. The amounts will be finalized after accounts
between NTPC and POWERGRID are settled.



3. Progect Obiectives and Descriittion
3.1         Proiect Ob1ectives.  The primary objective of the project w*as to
support GOI's strategy to extend and improve power supply through the
establishment if centrally owned regional grids and intra-reg:onal corAections
leading to the promotion of a national grid. To attain this objective, the
pro3ect provided for:
(a)  an increased capacity of power transmission system from NTPCs
Ramagundam TTP in the Southern Region, in order to ensure optimal
utilization from the installed thermal and hydro capacities in
this region;
(b) a strong power transmission tie between the predominantly hydro-
based Southern Region and the predominantly thermal-based Western
Region; and
(c)   an asynchronous ir.er-tie between the Northern and the Western
Regions in order to permit larger exchanges of power between the
two regions to meet the growing system demands while ensuring
stability of the systems.
As in the previous Bank-financed projects with NTPC, another objective was to
improve, in the long run, the operational, institutional and financial
performance of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs), by assisting in the
development.of a financially sound, and technically and institutionally
competent centrally-owned power utility which would serve as a model to SEMs.
3.2         OriQinal Proiect Descrintion.  The project, as approved by the
Board on May 19, 1983, is detailed in Annex 1 and comprised:
(a)   construction of 548 km of double circuit and 564 km of single
circuit 400 kV transmission lines;
(b)   construction of three new and extension of five 400/220 kV
substations associated with the lines mentioned in (a);
(c)   construction of a 2x250 MW capacity "back-to-back", high voltage
direct current (WSDC) substation at Vindhyachal TPP to provide an
asynchronous interconnection between the Northern and the Weetern
Regions;
(d)   technical services, for detailed equipment and system engineering
and construction supervision of the HVDC back-to-back
interconnection;
(e)   installation of metering, instrumentation and communication
facilities; and
(f) installation of power line carrier communication equipment for
voice transmission, line protection and data transmission on each
400 kv transmission line.
3.3         Revised ProJect Description.  After the loan and project
agreements were signed, GOI obtained financing for the HVDC back-to-back



-4
station from Sweden.  The Bank welcomed this co-financing and at 301's
request, agreed, on January 23, 1985, to reallocate loan funds and thus amend
the project description. In 1984, the construction of two large thermal power
plant projects (Manguru and Vijayawada projects) to be built in the Southern
Region were deferred beyond the Seventh Plan. In addition, CEA and NTPC
wanted to avoid forest land and ensure optimum utilization of the facilities
with respect to the revised demand and supply scenarioa2. After protracted
discussions between the Southern Region SEBs and NTPC, and with the
involvement of CEA, a new transmission system configuration was proposed.
Therefore, the project components to be built in the Southern Region (major
portion of Parts a and b of the project - para. 3.2) underwent major revision.
The proposed changes were found by the Bank technically acceptable and
justifiable on the basis of the long-term development of the Southern Region.
The Bank thus agreed on the new scheme on November 16, 1986. However, 001
finalized the scheme only in August 1987. The final project description is
detailed in Annex 2 and summarized as follows:
(a) construction of 164 km of double circuit and 1,229 km of single
circuit transmission lines; and
(b)   construction of four new and extension of seven 400/220 kV
substations, and of one new switching station associated with the
lines mentioned in (a).
Parts (c)-(f) of the project were not amended.  The new project description
was still within the overall objectives of the project as originally approved
by the Board. Thus the Management considered that the approval of the Board
for the said changes was not necessary.
4. Pro, ect Desion and Organization
4.1         Prolect Desian.  Uhlike the previous Bank operations with NTPC,
where the loans were made for the constructzion of power generation plants and
for the associated transmission lines to evacuate the power generated, this
project was solely to strengthen the transmission system. NTPC had already
acquired adequate experience in the area of 400 kV transmission line and
substation design and engineering during the construction of the transmission
lines and substations associated with the Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and
2      Changes in the supply scenario came from GOI's decision to delay
the Manguru and Vijayawada power projects beyond the Seventh
Plan, due to environmental, resettlement and rehabilitation
problems (for the IEanguru project) and lack of financial
resources. Changes in the demand scenario came from higher
priority being allocated to small scale industry and to rural
electrification. The Ramagundam-Manguru-Vijaywada transmission
line was re-routed via Khammam to minimize the passage through the
forests, where manguru is located. The Vijaywada-Nellore-Red
Hills (near Madras) coastal transmission line was discarded
because of the severe cyclonic conditions in that area, which
would have placed a high risk of damage to the envisaged coastal
line.



-5s-             -
Farakka power plant projects.  The. basic and detailed engineering work for
the 400 kV transmission lines and substations was carried out by NTPC in-
house. The detailed engineering of the HVDC back-to-back transmission link
component was carried out by NTPC in cooperation with ABS, Sweden, the
equipment supplier. NTPC carried out the preparation of specifications,
bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and construction supervision of all
the components of the project. To ensure smooth implementation, the execution
of the project required co-ordination with a number of major agencies
including beneficiary SEBs. This coordination was not always without problems
(para. 5.2).
4.2         Prgiect Orcanization4.  At the time of appraisal, NTPC had
already adopted its current three-tier organizational structure at corporate,
regional and project levels. The Corporation is headed by a Chairman and
Managing Director (CMD), who is assisted by five full time functional
directors, namely, Director (Projects), Director (Operations), Director
(Technical), Director (Finance) and Director (Personnel). At the Corporate
Office, corporate planning and central procurement functions are headed by
Executive Directors reporting to the CMD. For the purpose of the
administration and execution of work at the sites, the Corporation is divided
into five regions (Northern, western, Eastern, Southern and National Capital
Regions) with headquarters at present located at Allahabad, Nagpur, Patna,
Hyderabad and Delhi, respectively. These regions are under the control of
Regional Executive Directors who are responsible for the implementation,
operation and maintenance of power plants in their respective regions. Each
power plant is headed by a General Manager$. The structure has shown the
advantage of optimizing the span of control of the CMD and provided for the
decentralization of line responsibility while retaining centralized systems in
areas such as long-term planning, basic engineering, procurement of critical
equipment and spares, quality assurance, co-ordination with the World Bank and
other financing agencies and inspection. Various parts of the Project were
located in the Northern, Western and Southern regions and were managed by the
-respective regional offices.
5. Project Implementation
5.1         Loan Effectiveness. Loan 2283-IN was approved on May 19, 1983;
the Loan and Project Agreements were signed on June 8, 1983. It was expected
that the loan would be declared effective by September 9, 1983. Signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOt and NTPC, satisfactory to the Bank, and
of bulk supply contracts between NTPC and the SEBs for the sale of electricity
from the Bank financed Singrauli and Korba power plants, were conditions for
loan effectiveness. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement was provided on time.
However, delays were experienced in finalizing contractual arrangements with
All these coal-fired power plant projects were partly funded under
IDA credits and Bank loans.
As NTPC was the legal implementing agency of the project during
the life of Ln. 2283-IN, NTPC's project organization and
management is reviewed in this section.
Until August 16, 1991, NTPC'-s regional transmission units were
also headed by a General Manager (para. 2.6).



-6-
SEBs. This had been originally a condition for loan negotiations but
subsequently was made a condition for loan effectiveness. The delays led to
postponing twice the loan effectiveness date eventually to March 1984. By
that time, NTPC could only sign Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) with the
concerned SEBs. The Bank noted some deficiencies'6 in these MOTls, but
concluded that they fulfilled the purpose of providing an agreement between
NTPC and the relevant SEEs and other institutions7, covering the sale of
electricity from the Singrauli and Korba power plants. The loan was declared
effective on March 29, 1964, a delay of 6 1/2 months from the date of
effectiveness originally determined at signing.
5.2         Project Start-u  ad Imolementation Schedule.  At appraisal, the
project was expected to be completed by March 31, 1988. The construction of
the EVDC back-to-back station proceeded satisfactorily.  The station which was
projected to be commissioned in March 1988, was put into service in end 1987.
On the other hand, NTPC could not proceed with the implementation of the 400
kV transmission lines and substations in the Southern Region (major portion of
the Project) until firm agreements were reached with the Southern Region SEBs
on the cost recovery arrangements for the transmission facilities to be built
The deficiencies found by the Bank were summarized as: fi) short
remaining validity period of the MOU8, to March 1985; (ii) lack of
fixed commitment charge for the SEBs; (iii) lack of definition for
profits in tariff calculation; and (iv) lack of calculations of
flat rate, variable energy price and transmission charge. NTMC's
comments on the above are: (i) MOUs were valid from February 1982
to March 1985; (ii) No coLmitment charges were provided as NTPC
was not in a position to assure delivery of shares to SEBs. The
tariff in Rs./kWh basis enabled NTPC to earn higher returns as the
actual levels of operation were above the normative levels.
Absence of fixed commitment charges did not in any way prove
detrimental to NTPC's interests; (iii) Profit by way of return on
equity was included in the tariffs as an element of fixed charges;
and, (iv) Although the calculations did not form part of the MOUs,
the tariffs were based on detailed calculations based on the
principles and parameters mentioned in the MOUs.
Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU) and the Department of
Power of the Union Territory of Goa.



-7
under the Project . In the meantime, the generation and transmission plans
for the Southern Region and the description of the project were modified
(para. 3.3).  The SAR envisaged that the bid documents for the first contracts
for all the transmission lines (contract packages for the supply and erection
of the line towers) would be issued at the latest by September 1983 and the
contracts would be awarded by June 1984. The bid documents for these packages
were issued in April 19879, and the first contract was awarded in March 1988
(four years ten months from Board approval).
5.3         Implementation Process.  Once project implementation got under
way, there were some delays but these were not of significance - minor delays
occurred in the design and fabrication of tower parts for Ramagundam-Khammam
line, and supply of some 400 kV circuit breakers. The design, procurement and
installation of the metering, instrumentation and communications equipment
fpara. 3.2, Items d, e-and f) were not given the importance they deserved and
their commissionings were delayed substantially to 1990-1992.
5.4         Extensions of the closina Date.  The loan was scheduled to be
closed on March 31, 1989. Implementation of the project components financed
under the loan was really begun in April 1987, almost four years from Board
approval. While agreeing to GOIs request to revise the project, the Bank
recognized that extension of the loan closing date would be required. A
supervision mission estimated in January 1989 that the revised project would
only be completed by March 1992, and that completion of the payments would
require the extension of the closing date to 1993. However, the Bank reserved
the right to review progress under the project and extend the closing date
when necessary. The Bank carried out these reviews annually and agreed
extending the closing date by one year each time, for a total of 36 months to
March 31, 1992. In the meantime, in March 1991, in an effort to accelerate
disbursements under the project, the Bank also agreed in principle to finance
items of equipment totalling US$27.2 million that were originally planned to
be financed by NTPC. The Bank did not extend the closing date of the loan
beyond March 31, 1992, but informed GOl that it would be willing to consider
to include funding the completion of the ongoing contracts retroactively under
the POWERGRI7 -ystem Development Project. The latter project was approved by
Even before project negotiations, some of the Southern Region SEBs
had questioned NTPC on the utility or the benefit to themselves
from the transmission lines being set up under the Ramagundam
project, and manifested significant reluctance to agreeing to pay
NTPC for the transmission line charges for those lines constructed
under the said Ramagundam Project. The discussions/negotiations
between NTPC and Southern Region SEBe became protracted partly
because these SEBs had not dealt before with a centrally-owned
utility in terms of sharing the power generated from the plant,
and the cost of that power. It took about four years for the
parties involved t.? develop a consensus on NTPC's tariffs.
Although NTPC comm.3nted that the last agreement for the Southern
Region was signed in April 1985, Bank's files show that this was
an issue until th.e March 22 - April 7, 1987, supervision mission.
It should be noted that at that time, GOX had not yet granted its
full clearance for the new transmission development scheme, which
it did in August 1987.



the Board on March 23, 1993 (Loan 3577-IN; para. 2.6) and includes US$23.2
million for the completion of the contracts of the Central Power Transmission
Project.  Disbursements for these expenditures under Loan 3577-IN would be
completed during FY94.
5.5         Procurement.  The equipment and materials financed under the loan
were split into 71 packages, most of which were procured under international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contractors who supplied transmission line tower structure were in charge of
the erection of the towers, insulators and hardware, and stringing of the line
conductors, on a supply and erect basis. Suppliers of main equipment for the
substatLens were also in charge of the erection of the substations.  NTPC
procured, always under ICS, the conductors, line material such as insulators
and hardware and the electrical equipment including metering and
instrumentation and had these equipment erected by the above mentioned
contractors. The relatively large number of contracts and the above forms of
packaging created a significant workload on NTPC as well as Bank staff to
monitor and supervise these contracts. However, the above two characteristics
helped NTPC staff to acquire valuable experience in preparing contract
documentation, reviewing and evaluating bids, and in managing the engineering
of the project, since they were responsible for proper interfacing of project
materials and equipment from different suppliers. Most of the said NTPC staff
have been transferred to POWERORTD. However, it is noted that the above
procurement system applied by NTPC, which required drawing up of
specifications for tenders, preparation of bidding documents and carrying out
of bid evaluations swamped NTPC staff who at one point had to handle some
1,200 contracts valued at over US$1 billion. On the other hand, dividing the
project material/equipment into numerous contract packages, promoted
participation from a range of large and medium sized local manufacturers/
suppliers which, in turn, has contributed to the development of local
manufacturing industry.
5.6         Of the 71 contracts (total value: US$169 million equivalent) put
out for ICB, 12 contracts (valued at US$31 million or about l8* of the total)
were awarded to foreign manufacturers/suppliers. Of the two highest value
contracts (both for the supply of conductors) one was awarded to a local and
the other to a foreign manufacturer/supplier. The local industry was fairly
competitive where the size of contract packages was within its manufacturing
and/or supply capability. NTPC followed its practice of specifying the
qualification requirements of the prospective suppliers on the bidding
documents; this was not objected to by the Bank and worked reasonably.
5.7         For all contracts estimated to cost over US$2.5 million
equivalent, NTPC submitted for Bank's review and comments the bidding
documents and evaluation reports. Bank files show that there were delays in
procurement, and on some occasions there was need to amend the bid documents,
and also to re-bid in some cases. Based on the available documentation, the
average time taken from bid opening to the award of the contract (including
Bank acceptance of the proposed award) was generally less than nine months.
In an effort to speed up procurement, standard bidding documents will in the
future be used by MMPC and POWERGRID. Under the NTPC Power Generation
Projectla and Loan 3577-IN for the POWERGRID System Development Project, NTPC
to     This project was approved on June 29, 1993.



-9
and POWERGRID respectively agreed on standard bidding documents, whose use
would reduce the procurement period substantially.  NTPC and POWERGRID would
also give further emphasis to finishing promptly the payments for the
contracts, so that the closing dates of new loan(s) would not need to be
extended.
5.8         Prolect Costs (Part III, Table E).  The total cost of the original
project, including contingencies, taxes and duties, was estimated in the SAR
at about Rs. 5,864 million (US$617.3 million equivalent). The actual cost of
the revised project was Rs. 5,423 million (US$264.4 million equivalent). In
US dollar equivalent, the actual project cost was substantially lower than the
appraisal estimate because of the substantial devaluation of the Rupee from
Rs.9.5/US$ at appraisal to Rs.25/US$ in March 1992, when the loan was closed.
During the implementation period, the weighted average rate was Rs.20.5S/US$.
While inflation increased project costs in local currency, the devaluation.
resulted in the loan proceeds generating a substantially larger amount in
local currency than had been expected. Despite the inflation, in current
Rupee terms, the actual project costs were slightly lower than the appraisal
estimates. Although a detailed and realistic cost comparison between the
appraisal estimates and the actual costs is not possible due to the major
changes to some of the transmission lines and the associated substations, it
is concluded that costs at appraisal were overestimated.
5.9         Project Financing.  The financing plan was changed substantially.
The plan estimated at appraisal and the actual plan are summarized in the
following table.
Financina of the Proiect
Sources                          SAR                 Actual /a
(US$ million) .J(e)    (USS million) (.)      -
- Bank Loan                      250.7        41        131.5       50
- GOI (as Equity and Loan)       366.6        59         73.8       28
- Credit from Sweden               -           -        _9.1        22
Total                          f 17.3      100        264.4      100
/a    Excludes US$23.2 million to be disbursed
under Loan 3577-IN (para. 2.6).
5.10        Disbursements.  The estimated and actual disbursements, and the
original and revised allocation of the loan proceeds are given in Part III,
Tables E and F, respectively. Due to the fact that the HVDC substation was
hived off from Bank financing and the hiatus in the implementation of the
lines and substations led to virtually no disbursement of loan proceeds
through end 1986. By the time of the original closing date (March 31, 1989),
cumulative disbursements were only US$40.5 million, 161 of the original loan
amount. The closing date of the loan was extended three times by one year
each, to March 31, 1992 (para. 5.4). In December 1991, US$50 million of
savings arising mainly of exchange rate variations were cancelled from the
loan amount. The loan was closed on March 31, 1992; disbursements were
completed on September 8, 1992. The undisbursed balance of US$69.2 million
was cancelled on that date. Thus disbursements under the loan were US$131.5
million. India began repaying the proceeds of the loan on September 1, 1988,



-10-
and will continue to do so until March 1, 2003.  It is noted that by the time
tne loan was closed, India had already repaid US$64,666,000, almost half of
the loan amount utilized.
6. Environment. Resettlement and Rehabilitation
6.1         The project did not create any significant environmental and
resettlement and rehabilitation problems.  NTPC selected the line routings so
as to minimize infringement on forest land. Where trees had to be felled in
order to provide access to the lines, trees of a corresponding number were
planted in the vicinity. The question of relocation of people affected by the
project did not arise because transmission line routes and substation sites
were selected in un-inhabitated areas remote from the population centers.
7. Physical Results
7.1         Proiect Objectives.  Overall, the project has achieved its
objectives (para. 3.1). The project has been the first major component in the
establishment of centrally owned regional grids and intra-regional
connections. The power transmission capacity in the Southern Region has been
increased in a manner which helps optimal utilization of the installed thermal
and hydro capacities in this region and permits for exchanges between the
Southern and Western Regions. The asynchronous interconnection between the
Northern and the Western Regions is currently used for limited exchanges of
power between the two regions and helps the stability of the systems. The
project contributed in making NTPC an efficient utility but failed in its
sectoral objective in inducing improvements in the operational, institutional
and financial performance of SEBs, as seen in the disappointing operational,
financial and institutional performances of many SEBs. It is not clear how,
if any, NTPC's institutional development helped those performing SEBs, such as
the Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh SEBs whose transmission networks were
strengthened by this project. The failure in obtaining improvements at SEBE
while supporting the development of NTPC as a model utility can be traced to
the fact that the Bank had not fully appreciated the extent of the
interference by the state governments in the affairs of SEBs (para. 12.4).
7.2         Phvsical Results.  The individual components of the revised
project were commissioned at various dates given in Part III, Table D. The
2x250 MW HVDC component was commissioned in end 1987, compared with the
appraisal estimate of March 1988, and has been providing for power exchanges
between the Northern and Western Regions (each block of 250 MW is capable of
operating independently in either direction). The lines and substations in
the Southern Region were, at appraisal, projected to be commissioned during
the June-December 1987 period. These lines and substations which were delayed
awaiting agreement from the SEEs (para. 5.2) and suffered from NTPC's overload
in processing contract documents (para. 5.5), were actually commissioned
between May 1991 and March 1992.
7.3         Since their commissioning, the project components have in general
functioned satisfactorily. The problems which did arise were invariably of a
minor nature and were resolved without seriously affecting the transmission of
power. The availability of the individual components has been almost 100% in
1992 (Annex 3). However, the average daily power transmitted through some of
the lines is short of its design capacity. The reasons for this
unitrutilization are: (i) suboptimal operation of generating plant on a



regional basis; and (ii) indifferent or unresponsive generation tariff
structure. Generation plants are not operated optimally because individual
SEBs do not observe cost merit order in power generation. The tariff
structure in effect up to November 1992 did not encourage merit order plant
dispatch in the regional grids. The actual NTPC tariff in application since
November 1992, is on two part basis as per the recommendations of GOIt's K.P.
Rao Committee. This tariff is conducive to the introduction of merit order
operation. POWERGRID is pursuing further tariff improvements in transmission.
Assistance is being provided under Loan 3577-IN.
7.4         The Ramagundam-Chandrapur double circuit line linking the Southern
and Western Regions was intended for use mainly during emergencies in either
region. Only one circuit is presently in regular use carrying power (which is
only a fraction of the line's load carrying capacity) from the Western Region
directly to some of the northern areas of Andhra Pradesh in the Southern
Region. The construction of an asynchronous tie (HVDC back-to-back station
similar to the one implemented under the project) to be built at Chandrapur is
being examined by POWERGRID to help effect large exchanges of power between
the two regions in the future and the loading of the Ramagundam-Chandrapur
line will increase. When commissioned, this inter-tie will increase the
loading of the Chandrapur-Ramagundam double circuit lines.
7.5         The 400 kV transmission system under the project was intended to
improve voltage levels and carry electric power over long distances with low
losses. However, in practice voltages in the systems drop sometimes to well
below the permissible limits (as low as 300 kV). This problem affects
adversely those SEBs which are further away from the sources of generation,
and is due to the SESs nearer the generation sources who draw higher reactive
power (MVARs) from the 400 kV systems. Ways to rectify the situation are for
SEBs either to install shunt capacitors or to make it obligatory and enforce
the installation of capacitors on all large motors, including irrigation pump
motors. Five major grid failures were reported in the Southern Region during
the period November 1991 to January 1993. In every one of these occasions,
low voltages were prevailing in the regional grid, because SEBs were drawing
unusually high MVARs over the 400 kV network. The problem was aggravated
because of low generation in certain states. However, NTPC/POWERGRID 400 kV
network worked satisfactorily during this period and did not contribute to the
grid failures.
8. NTPC's Financial Performance
8.1          NTPC started its commercial operation in February 1982, a few
months prior to the appraisal of the project. From 1982 to the present,
NTPC's financial performance has been satisfactory, except for the large
accounts receivable (para. 8.2). NTPC's financial statements for the period
PY85 to FY92 are given in Annexes 4.1-4.3 and a summary for the last five
years is given in Table 8.1 below. NTPCIs operating data reflect the growth
the Corporation experienced since 1982. Key financial parameters, e.g.,
assets in operation, revenue from electricity sales, total operating revenues,
and operating income before interest, increased some five-fold since 1987.
The rate of return on net average fixed assets (historically valued) for this
period was high, generally around 151 (between 13* and 17%), well in excess of
the 8a between FY8S-PY90 and 9.5S  starting from FY91, as was stipulated in the
project agreement.



Table  8.1              M' F"'Y"t"       A
1so              19               1w0              13                U              19"0       '       1 tm92
_ _ ~~~~~~.                                                               n      .ee_  _         _.
Fg..s.b  8493. t  rewue    A.UeWl FNt       849oW1 VW*"*%  A493e1 `rmcst AcS   Per.o  McnI f.r.a.*  AInI Aor0ee   At,el
6I.s9l.tl  sals CtbS)                          4.110   11.493  ISt."    13,445  U.40   17.92,  1.&8  8,93M4  24,   85.41   88.411  44,93   40,80   48.m    6,6
Jot. la wUe. b1k                                              4,5    i,4   1,99   4,47    1,1t2   0,U11   7.142  9.4U7    O."10    . 6,12   4,868   4.,7    33,81
most. $*lJo 1evu                               8,07    4,41    4."    5U    5,78    7.,27    7,201  10,7t3  1.1460 i,5108  16,87   191,87 1T4,2U  W.1.  45847
lbet. la Isle* 1W.                                          1"72       4       907   1.       1,45    1145    4,259  4,866   1.1"     4,214   2,9    2.768  1.098
Too$ 0estt.o Ns Ib1 8.21                       1 S,440   4,854   5.14   *,M2   6,45    0.145   0,M  1,122  11,740  17,24  90.5M   22,8   24,0  15,99   "89,9
Row. S. 3mp* Req.                                          1.689    1.105   1.IM    1.178   2,19   8M977    4,11   5,14    7.82   41,09    $,#4   8.194  36.722
_AmSt. Imlwabl*                         so  1,.8          M    2,.4       447   *,M         so    4,0       09    5,08    too"   l1.89    16tO   5,1    1.0   19.0
Je. !* An. Soee.                                      M       on       79      544      15    S.23      18    1,92      us   5,8         US   S,641    280         4
A.aR_1 .s0.C       ofOwe)                18      170             M1        2       1n         7     no0   n?         14   n 6        M       1       2    #           14
b,nst SbAU-                                      1.0     5.0      1.6     5.2      1.0      5.7      11     6.1      1.0    4.7      10     4.1      1.9 *   4.1      1.5
taof    rs (3)                                                     17       9       173       is     lox      S$     sox      73      t5      M       in      Of       15t
eerums RIl*e (3)                                                   M       5n       55      573      "S    68       "5       "S       six    on       $0              Ws
t.,b.bub)eCook. M                                                  -.1   .n 3        M       91      40      123     -2      24#   1         so       173    53        9
b*S k,lwo Ce"" t tn)                                              4.9     2.0      4.0      1.5     J.9    1.4      2.4    1.3       2.5    1.4      2.0    1.6      2.4
(.)C esad tbo"saes                       Is      84       is     44        1t      184   #    55,975        45        2      la     "S               64       0   1.42
(b) Av.* ftetip Cos Oew.P.              141     14       221     2*14      04  XO          N0       844    464       "4    645       93      t8   1,0on    9         .709
(a) Relt Cs)/()                        0.08    0."      0.06    2.09    0.09    0.52    0.12   17."    0.10    0.00   0.0           0.51    0.07    0.n7   O."       1.o



_ 13 -
8.2         Bill collection and accounts receivable have been persistent
problems for NTPC, because of the poor financial situation of many SEPs.
NTPC's accounts receivable increased at a far greater pace than its revenues
and operating income in successive years. The receivables, which represented
some 5.2 months of billing in 1987. steadily increased to 7.5 months in 1991,
compared to less than one month (27 days) projected in the SAR for the entire
period. A covenant specifying the level of accounts receivable not to exceed
an amount equivalent to the proceeds of its sales of power for the two
preceding months, was first introduced for NTPC under Loan 2555-IN for the
Rihand Power Transmission Project approved in May 1985, with effect from the
end of FY86. The covenant was repeated in three subsequent Bank loans"1, but
NTPC has never been able to comply. In 1991, the increase in accounts
receivable (over 1990) was some Re 3.53 billion, while the corresponding
increases in electricity sales revenue and in total operating revenues were Rs
2.88 billion and Rs 3.63 billion respectively; in practical terms, NTPC
collected virtually no additional revenue in FY91, even though it sold an
additional 4,800 GWh of energy. In 1986, NTPC internal cash generation barely
met its debt service requirements and the increase in working capital (Annex
4.2). A liquidity crisis was averted by the cash received by NTPC from its
first issue of medium-term bonds. Since then NTPC has been issuing such
medium-term bonds every year, mostly to help finance the expansion of its
facilities. The level of its accounts receivable have also been increasing
every year in absolute terms as well as a percentage of its annual billings.
The funds raised from these bonds have helped NTPC to bridge finance its
increasing working capital requirements.
8.3         Increasing bill collection and accounts receivable problems led to
several interventions by GOI on behalf of NTPC during the period FY88 to FY92.
At each of these interventions, GOl assumed the responsibility to clear some
of the arrears from sEBs by transferring to NTPC corresponding amounts from
its allocations to the respective states. Such payments are carried out over
a period of four years. In February 1992, NTPC acquired the Unchahar power
station in lieu of arrears of the Uttar Pradesh SEB. As indicated in Table
8.1 above, NTPC has received over Rs 11 billion from the transfers through the
central appropriations from 1988 to January 1993. Combined with other bill
collection efforts, NTPC was able to reduce its level of accounts receivable
despite the rapid increase in sales. At the end of FY93, the overall level of
accounts receivable was 3.3 months of sales equivalent, but excluding the
amount still to be paid through the central appropriations, it was 1.4 months
of sales equivalent. More encouraging is that during the last three months of
FY93, 93% of billing was realized directly from the SUBs.  During the
negotiations of the NTPC Power Generation Project, agreement was reached that
NTPC would maintain the level of its accounts receivable at two months of
sales equivalent excluding the amount still to be paid through the central
appropriations for which a specific payment schedule was also agreed.
8.4         (00's interventions through the central appropriations helped
NTPC avert financial crises and resolve, for limited periods, its accounts
receivable problem. These interventions aimed at having NTPC operate
efficiently, thus keep the electric energy supply in the country at an
La. 2674-TN for the Gas Based Combined Cycle Power Project (FY68);
La. 2844-IN for the National Capital Power Project (FY87); and
Lu. 2845-IN for the Talcher Thermal Power Project (FY67).



- 14 -
adequate level. It is doubtful that GOI'S actions have resulted in SEBs
improving their operational efficiency as well as their billing and collection
practices from their own customers. What is equally important, but so far
received little attention, is the need for energy conservation on the customer
(SEBs) side through adoption of appropriate tariffs and tariff structure at
SEBS and through end-use efficiencies.
8.5         The accounts receivable as of March 1990 were about Rs 11.5
billion (scme US$500 million equivalent, and represented over six months of
current billings).  it was around the same time that the Bank took the
exceptional step of cancelling the processing of a loan of USS375 million to
NTPC for a project which had already been negotiated, primarily because of the
inability of NTPC to reduce its accounts receivable.  Since October 1992, GOI
adopted new investment and comercial policies and electricity tariffs for
NTPC. They are designed to introduce better commercial discipline at SEBs,
along with improving NTPC's own operational and financial performance,
including revenue collection. New two part bulk supply tariffs for NTPC coal
fired stations became effective in November 1992. Further reforms in bulk
power and transmission tariffs will be studied and implemented under Loan
3577-IN. The process of establishing commercial contracts between the SEBs
and the central utilities is cumbersome, but progress is being made with
strong Bark support under Loan 3577-IN and the NTPC Power Generation Project.
The new commercial policies and bulk power supply agreements should enable
NTPC to reach a level of bill collection close to 100% during FY94.
8.6         The legal documents of the Loan adopted a sole covenant on NTPC's
financial performance, the conventional rate of return (ROR) on average
historic fixel assets in operation. An important objective of this
conventional ROR indicator is to serve as a measure of the adequacy of
revenues compared to the cost of capital. Therefore, it has more appropriate
application with mature utilities, and where the investment, which is not
included in the rate base, is a fraction of the utility's net fixed assets in
operation (or the rate base). Table 8.1 indicates that throughout the entire
project implementation period i.e., FY84-FY92, the projected "Works in
Progress" (WIP) was a substantially high proportion of the rate base; through
1987, WIP was higher than the Gross Assets in Operation; for practical
purposes the rate base was insignificant relative to the annual investment. A
utility could well have a very high rate of return performance but be faced
with liquidity crisis, and the computation of other standard financial
indicators such as operating ratio would not provide meaningful
information"2. One could, readily conclude that such a performance indicator
was not appropriate for NTPC at the time. A more appropriate financial
indicator under such circumstances is "contribution to the investment",
because it targets at generating from internal sources a pre-determined level
of funds towards the on-going investment after taking into account debt
service and working capital requirements. Under the NTPC Power Generation
Project, NTPC agreed that it would produce, starting from FY95, funds from its
internal cash generation equivalent to not less than 20% of its capital
expenditures on a three-year moving average. The amount for FY94 would be 15%
of the average of NTPC's capital expenditures for the FY93-PY95 period.
The most recent analysis of NTPC's finances is given in the SAR
for the NTPC Power Generation Project (Report -o. 11827-IN; Dated
June 4, 1993).



9. Comuliance with Loan Covenants
9.1         The ke'y institutional and cost recovery covenants introduced in
the Loan and the Project Agreements and the extent they were complied with are
listed in Part III, Table R.
10. Sustainability and Internal Econ0omic Rate of Return
10.1        The project is sustainable, even though at present its components
are not yet being fully utilized (paras. 7.3 and 7.4).  Sustainability is
certainly assured'for the future, as the facilities built under the project
are integral components of POWERGRID' s system development program. However,
insufficient generation and transmission tariffs and an unchecked increase of
NTPC's and POWMRGRID's accounts receivable could endanger such sustainability.
The Bank, GOI, MTPC and POWERGRID have been taking actions to avoid such
occurrence (paras. 8.5 and 8.6).
10.2        Because of the changes agreed by the parties on the project
description, it is not possible to make a reasonable comparison between the
internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the original and revised project
scopes. The IERR for NTPC/POWERGRID's time-slice investments for the FY84-
FY92 period has been estimated at 11%. Under Loan 3577-IN, the IERR for
POWERGRID's time-slice investments during the FY93-FY2002 period was estimated
as 22%. The difference is explained by improvements in tariff setting
parameters"3 and the unusually high inflation encountered in India in late
1980s and early 1990s, which brought down tariff revenues in real terms
(Part III, Table G).
11. Bank Performance
11.1        It is difficult to provide a judgement for a project whose
description was substantially amended twice, albeit within its original
objectives, and was really begun about four years from Board approval.  The
Bank might have cancelled Loan 2283-IN during the project hiatus in 1984-1987.
But it might have lost an opportunity to influence transmission development in
India. Instead the Bank opted to continue its dialogue with GOI, CEA, NTPC
and POWERGRID on transmission system development and operations. The dialogue
has culminated with the recent approval of Loan 3577-IN (para. 2.6).
11.2        On another front, the Bank opted not to suspend disbursements
under loans to NTPC, when NTPC fell into default of the accounts receivable
covenant and substantial arrears from SEBs began creating problems for this
Corporation's financial position and overall future (para. 8.2). Although the
accounts receivable covenant was not included in this Loan, the Bank had
considerable leverage in refusing to extend the closing date after March 1989,
particularly, if the Bank had invoked the accounts receivable covenants in
other on-going projects with NTPC. The Bank decided to continue its dialogue
to encourage GOI to adopt for NTPC new investment and commercial policies, and
electricity tariffs. It alerted GOI and NTPC that the Bank's continued
The return on equity for projects started before FY90 was 10%; for
those projects started in FY91 and FY92 it was 12%. The return
has since been adjusted to 16% for future projects. Depreciation
was also increased.



- 16 -
funding for their projects would no longer be possible unless actions to
correct NTPC*s finances are taken. In 1990, the Bank decided not to present
to the Board the then-negotiated Regional Power Systems Project, because GQI
and NTPC were unable to fulfill the conditions for Board presentation within a
reasonable time period. other multilateral and bilateral agencies followed
the Bank in limiting their financing of NTPC projects. All these actions
helped GO0 to initiate reforms in the power sector and adopt new investment
and commercial policies for NTPC. If the Bank had suspended disburs-nents, it
might have lost another opportunity, this time to influence reforms in power
generation.  In view of GO$'s, POmEGRIDo s and NTPC's recent actions prior to
the approval of Loan 3577-IN and negotiations of the NTPC Power Generation
Project, the Bank's above decisions bore their fruits.
11.3        Bank's supervision effort was concentrated mainly on the
procurement issues, in which area the Bank provided valuable help to NTPC. It
covered as well, other important areas such as physical progress including
problems in implementation, in disbursements performance, etc. However,
visits to the work sites by each mission could not be undertaken because each
mission covered supervision of all Bank funded NTPC projects. it is concluded
that the Bank's performance under the project was satisfactory.
11.4        Even though contracts amounting to about US$23.2 million
equivalent were already committed (but not yet paid) under the project, and
there were ample funds still available in the loan account on March 31, 1992,
the Bank did not extend the closing date of the loan for a fourth time. Just
a year before, the Bank had extended the loan for the third time without
stating this was the last extension or any other conditions. At that time the
Bank had also agreed on funding contracts which were originally to be financed
by NTPC. This might have given GOI and NTPC the impression that the Bank was
following the views of the January 1989 mission (para. 5.4). The Bank's 1992
decision not to extend the closing date came as a surprise to GOI and NTPC and
increased NTPC's fiscal problems as the utility did not have the local and
foreign funds to pay its suppliers and contractors on time. The Bank's action
stemmed from (i) its more stringent implementation of the policy on the
management of the closing dates; and (ii) its desire to have NTPC reach
promptly, an agreement with POWERGRID on the transfer of the transmission
assets.
12. Borrower Performance
12.1        The performance of NTPC in the technical and managerial activities
was satisfactory. Bank missions have reported delays in preparation of
specifications, bidding documents and bid evaluations, and in preparing its
quarterly progress reports in a timely manner; these shortcomings, however,
have been mainly due to the large workload of NTPC at the time and because the
information needs to be collected from various sites which are located in



-17 
remote places". The project provided continuing opportunity for NTPC to
enlarge its skills and experience in procurement under ICB procedures, in
designing the transmission systems and in supervising their implementation and
construction. The PCR mission was advised that the services of NTPC staff,
involved in implementation of the HMVDC .ibstation, were subsequently used by
the supplier, on a consultancy basis, in the installation of {VDC substation
in another country.
12.2        The only area where NTPC's performance fell considerably short of
expectations was in bill recovery.  Maintaining a specific level of accounts
receivables was not a condition of this loan and it was only introduced in
1985 under Loan 255$-IN for the Rihand Transmission Project. Substantial
arrears by SEBs affected NTPC's financial position adversely. NTPC maintained
it had little recourse against the defaulting SE8s, because of its
understanding that it could not cut off the power supply-to the defaulting
SEES even if it wanted to. At present NTPC is carrying out more systematic
and aggressive efforts at all levels of the organization (from the regional
managers to the CMD) to obtain letters of credit from SEBs for the appropriate
aMounts of energy sales. These actions include seeking the intervention of
the Minister of Power in order to collect dues from SEBs. GOT's new
commercial policies and new bulk power supply agreements should enable NTPC to
reach a level of bill collection close to lo0o during FY94.
12.3        GOT has recently adopted new investment and commercial policies
and electricity tariffs allowing NTPC to shut-off or restrict power supply if
its clients are in default with their bulk supply agreements. These policies
are designed to introduce better commercial discirline at SEBs, along with
improving NTPC's own operational and financial performance, including
improving revenue collection (para. 8.5).
12.4        There appears to be a difference in the positions of the Bank, GOI
and the State Governments. The Bank's position is that the electricity
industry provides a service which has to be fully paid for by each customer
category (cross-subsidization permitted) through user charges. GOI seems to
be moving towards the Bank's position as shown by the measures and incentives
taken in recent years including recommendations to the state governments to
increase tariffs. The states in general, appear to perceive (sometimes for
political purposes) the provision of electricity as a social service and do
not allow SEBs to operate independently and in line with commercial practices
(para. 2.2). Furthermore, in an economy, where the public perception of a
public utility oftn is to provide primarily a social service, the use of a
profit criterion as the sole measure of the utility's financial performance is
not generating adequate public support.
13. Perfo.,rmance of Consultants and Contractors
13.1        The performance of consultants engaged in the design and
construction of HVDC and 400 kV facilities was satisfactory. There was a
14    Furthermore, after the transfer of the management of NTPC's
transmission assets to POWERGRID, the information relating to the
transmission system are collected from this Corporation.
Stabilization of a proper coordination system between the two
Corporations has taken some time.



- 18 -
positive transfer of technical know-how from these consultants to NTPC staff.
Barring a few problems and some minor delays, overall the performance of the
contractors/suppliers was also satisfactory. The packaging of contracts in
appropriate sizes promoted participation from local manufacturing industry,
and the Bank's and NTPC's involvements resulted in improvement in the quality
of the product.
14. Proiect RelationshiD
14.1        A good working relationship was maintained between the Bank and
GOI and NTPC, and later also with 'OWERGRID.
1S. Prolect Dogumentation and Data
15.1        The project's legal agreements adequately reflected the objectives
of the project -nd the Bank's interests. The staff appraisal report provided
a relatively useful framework for the Bank and NTPC during project
implementation. One of the weaknesses of the SAR was that it did not verify
whether there was a full agreement and understanding on the part of the SEEs
to pay for the transmission charges (paras. S.l and 5.2). Bank supervision
missions appear to have been adequate in terms of their frequency. However,
most of the missions had to supervise and/or prepare other projects. It is
therefore likely that the missions were not able to make visits to some of
project sites. Some of the important project documentation (e.g. supervision
mission reports, aide-memoires), project progress reports and annual financial
statements was not found in the Bank files.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2283-IN)
PART I:: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments by NTPC and Endorsed by the Government of India
A. Preface
1.          The loan was made to India in May 1983 for on-lending to the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). The two main objectives of the
project were: (a) to support GOI's strategy to extend and improve power
supply through the establishment of centrally owned regional grids and intra-
regional connections leading to the promotion of a national grid; and (b) to
improve, in the long run, the operational, institutional and financial
performance of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs), by assisting in the
development of a financially sound, and technically and institutionally
competent centrally-owned power utility which would serve as a model to SEBs.
On August 16, 1991, the management of the project was transferred from NTPC to
National Power Transmission Corporation Ltd., under a Management contract
signed between the two corporations. On January 8, 1993, an ordinance
providing for all the rights, titles and other interests related to the
transmission systems of NTPC to be transferred to POWERGRID (NPTC was later
renamed as Power Grid Corporation of India) was promulgated by the President
of India.
B. Comments on the Analysis in Part-I
2.          The analysis made by the Bank under Part-I is comprehensive and
has covered the important aspects. The analysis is generally in order.
Nevertheless, there are certain issues which need to be further examined
keeping in view the background of developments as they took place to better
appreciate the events. These are as follows:
Project Start-up and Imnlementation Schedule (reference nara. 5.2 of Part-I}
3.          Actual dates of signing of BPSA (Bulk Power Supply Agreement) in
Southern region are as follows:
APSEB             22.3.1985
KEB               21.3.1985
TNEB              22.3.1985
KSEB              10.4.1985
GQA               17.4.1985
Extensions of the Closing date (reference nara. 5.4 of Part-I)
4.          The Bank did not accept GOI's request to cover the expenditure on
ongoing contracts under the savings available under other ongoing loans to
NTPC after loan closing date till POWERGRID System Development Project loan



- 20 -
became effective. The continuity in Bank financing w-- sought on account of
certain problems relating to the deemed export benefits to the contractors and
also relating to the import license.
Procurement (reference nara. 5.7 of Part-I)
5.1         In an effort to speed up procurement and after having extensive
discussions, NTPC had finalized with the World Bank a standard bidding
document in April 1992. However, the Bank withdrew its "No-Objection" to this
standard bidding document in December 1992 and wanted certain modifications to
be included. NTPC has now finalized standard bidding documents with the Bank
based on the suggested modifications and further discussions. NTPC will use
this document for procurement under the recently negotiated loan for NTPC
Power Generation Project. This is expected to reduce the procurement time.
Further, the proposed NTPC Power Generation Project, negotiated with the Bank
in May 1993 would be under time slice concept which would help in bringing
about timely disbursements.
5.2         NTPC has started giving further emphasis to finishing promptly the
payments to the contractors.
Prolect Costs (reference para. 5.8 of Part-I)
6.          It has been stated that "that costs at appraisal were over
estimated". It is clarified that the basis of costing during the appraisal
had been explained in the Staff Appraisal Report. It, inter-alia, states that
the estimates for the main items of equipment and material are based on the
quotations received since 1980 for similar projects such as the 400 kV links
and sub-stations associated with Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka
Power Plants with prices updated to mid-1982 price levels. On the other hand,
the exchange rate changes have played a major role in bringing down the
project cost in dollars terms.
Financial Performance (reference nara. 8.2 to 8.5 of Part-f)
7.          In the discussions on accounts receivable presented in Section 8
of the Part I, the Bank has included the amount due to NTPC by way of Central
Appropriation in the accounts receivables. 0OI has in the past ordered
Central Appropriation of plan assistance funds to State sectors for offseting
their dues to Central sector agencies like NTPC. Such amounts are being paid
to NTPC as per agreed schedules and the Bank had been kept informed about the
arrangement since August 1990. Considering that these were committed payments
from G01, the amounts were set off against the dues of the SEBs and NTPC's
accounts receivable reduced by the total amount of Central appropriation.
As has been mentioned in para. 8.3, during the negotiations of the
proposed NTPC Power Generation Project, agreement was reached that NTPC would
maintain the level of its accounts receivable at two months of sales
equivalent excluding the amount still to be paid through the Central
appropriations for which a specific payment schedule was also agreed.
8.          The Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank conducted
the performance audit of few Bank-funded projects, namely Korba (Credit 793-
IN), Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN), Singrauli-1I (Credit 1027-
IN) and Farakka (Credit 1053-IN and Loan 1887-IN).  In its report No. 10854



21 -
published in February 1993, the Audit Mission has summed up NTPC's financial
policy in a paragraph as below:
"NTPC has reached its large size (it is India's largest corporate entity
in terms of fixed assets) in a record time without jeopardizing or
compromising its financial viability, even in spite of the accounts
receivable issue. This is a performance that very few utilities in the
same situation are able to achieve. The performance is even more
impressive since NTPC is stili in a major investment mode. A good part
of NTPC's above-par performance is to be credited to GOI's original
design (e.g., debt-equity ratio set at a conservative 1:1; tariff
formula to pass on all investment, operation, and financial costs.)"1
9.          As is common practice in transaction of a commodity like
electricity, the agreements allow the beneficiary of its energy supply a
period of 30 days from issue of the bills for making payments'. Therefore,
outstanding should be reckoned after expiry of this period of 30 days.
Bank Performance (reference Daras. 11.2 fi 11.3 of Part-I)
10.         It has been stated that the Bank's decision not to present to the
Board the then proposed Regional Power System Project because of GOI and
NTPC*s inability to fulfil the conditions for Board presentation within a
reasonable time period, has helped GOI to promote reforms in the power sector.
It is worth mentioning that the sectoral reforms are brought about gradually
with time. It is easier to bring out such changes when they are accompanied
by large development programmes such as the proposed US$1.2 billion time slice
loan operation of World Bank for NTPC Power Generation Project.
Comments by POWERGRID and Endorsed by the Government of India
Environment. Resettlement and Rebhailitation
11.1        In the context of transmission projects there is no significant
impact on environment except in the cases where the transmission lines involve
any forest area. The impact of transmission line projects on environment is
not considered as severe as in case of thermal, hydel, nuclear power projects.
This is primarily because the effect on forest due to laying of tranmission
lines is reversible and can be nullified by planting more trees.
11.2        With the worldwide concern over the fast depleting forest
reserves, due consideration is given to these aspects at the planning and
designing stage itself. While identifying the transmission system for CTP-I,
detailed surveys were conducted by the executing agency in association with
the state forest authorities to identify most suitable route having minimum
infringement on forest land. Where trees had to be felled in order to provide
access to the lines, trees of a corresponding number were planted in the
vicinity as per guidelines from Ministry of Environment and Forest.
11.3        Sites for construction of the sub-stations were generally selected
in uninhabitated areas remote from the population centers.  Hence, the
-resettlement and rehabilitation-of people did not arise.



- 22 -
Final Pavments
12.         The loan was originally scheduled to be closed on March 31, 1989.
But the project configuration underwent major revision following the
reluctance of SEBs to pay the fixed transmission charges associated with this
project and also because of changes in load generation scenario in Southern
Region than what was envisaged at the planning stage. The revised project
configuration was approved in August 1987. Thereafter, Bank decided to extend
the loan closing date by one year each time for a total of 36 months to March
1992. The total disbursement of loan till March 1992 was US$131.49 million.
Further, the Bank has included funding tne balance portion of the on-going
contracts retroactively under the niew POWERGRID System Development Project
(Loan No. 3577-IN).
Procurement
13.         GOI approval for the revised project was accorded in August 1987
and immediately thereafter the exercise for placement of award for tower
package (for eight transmission lines) was begun. Awarding took 6 to 8 months
to complete. This was possible due to advance planning in preparation of bid
document. However, this time could have been further reduced by around a
month had the Bank approval been obtained in a period of about 15 days. As
regards procurement of domestic goods and services, a comprehensive
procurement action plan resulted in cutting down of award time, and hence
achieved the completion of project without any delays.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance
14.1        The project has achieved its objectives.  With the satisfactory
completion of the project, the power transmission capacity, security and
reliability in the Southern region has increased.  The inter-connection
between the Northern and the Western regions is currently used for limited
exchange of power between the two regions and helps the stability of the
systems.
14.2        Unlike the previous Bank funded power projects, this project was
solely for the purpose of transmission system. Since NTPC had already
acquired sufficient experience in the area of design and engineering of 400 kV
transmission lines and substations, entire basic and detailed engineering work
for the 400 kV transmission lines and substations was carried out by
NTPC/POWERGRID in-house.
14.3        This project also provided an opportunity for NTPC/POWERGRID to
gain valuable experience in procurement under ICB procedures, which was later
used for other Bank financed projects. Also the first time introduction of
HVDC technology with this project helped NTPC staff to enlarge its skills and
to gain valuable experience in the execution of HVDC substation, which was
later used, on a consultancy basis, in the installation of HVDC stations in
other countries.



- 23 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(LOAN 2283-IN)
PAMT III- STATTSTICAL SUMMARY
A. Related IDA Credits and Bank Loans
_r./Loan No          -                    Year of
and Title            Purose               aMoval    Status    Comments
Cr. 685-IN     To help reduce the power   April 1977  Closed    The project
Singrauli      shortage in the Northern                on June   was successfully
Thermal Power  Region through the con-                 30, 1984  completed
Project        struction of the 3x200
NW initial phase of
the NTPC's first large
coal fired thermal power
plant with associated 400
kV transmission lines.
Cr. 1027-IN    Assist NTPC to mitigate    May 1980    Closed    The project
Second         power shortages in the                  on June   was successfully
Singrauli      Northern Region through                 30, 1989  completed.
Thermal        the construction of
Power          2x200 MW and 2x500 MW
Project        coal-fired units and
associated 400 kV
transmission lines.
Cr. 793-IN     To help reduce the power   April 1978  Closed    The project
Korba          shortage in Western                     on March  was successfully
Thermal        Region through the con-                 31, 1986  completed.
Power          struction of the 3x2ao
Project        MW coal fired thermal
power plant with associated
400 kV transmission lines.
Cr. 1172-IN    To help reduce power       July 1981   Closed    The project
Second Korba   shortages in the Western                on        was successfully
Thermal        Region through the con-                 December  completed.
Power          struction of 3x500 MW                   31, 1991
Project        coal-fired units and
associated 400 kV
transmission lines.



- 24 -
Cr. /Loan No.                             Year of
and Title            Puroose              A&nroval    Statug    Comments
Ln.1648-IN &  To help: (a) solve          January      Closed    The project
Cr. 874-IN     rationing in the           1979         on        was successfully
Ramagundam     Southern Region by                      June      completed.
Thermal Power providing 3x200 MW                       30, 1987
Project        generating units; (b)
assist G0I in achieving
its objective of further
advancing the regional
and ultimately the
national integration of
the power sub-sector.
Loan 2076-IN  Alleviation of power        December    Closed    The project
Second         shortages in the           1981        March      was successfully
Ramagundam     Southern Region through                 31, 1992  completed.
Thermal        the construction of
Power          3x200 MW and 3x500 MW
Project        coal-fired units and
associated 400 kV
transmission lines.
Sectoral Ob,ectives Common to All the Above Prolects
In addition to the                               This purpose
above project-wide                               was not fully
objectives, the sectoral                         attained
objective was to assist
NTPC become an efficient
utility (implementation of
projects, operation of
power plants, institution-
and finance-wide) to form a
model to the poor performing
SEBs.



-25-
B. Project Timetable
Date                           Date
1Item                          Planned          Date           Actual
-Appraisal Mission                                             October 1982
Credit Negotiation                                            April 18-22, 1983
Board Approval                                                May 19, 1983
Credit Signature                                              June 8, 1983
Credit Effectiveness           Sept. 9,                       March 29, 1984
1983 /a
Credit Closing                 March 31,       a) 3/31/90    March 31. 1992
1989            b) 3/31/91
Completion of Disbursements                                   September 8, 1992
/a At Loan signing.



C. DisbursWements (Estimated aqd Actual)
(US$ million)
1983     1984     1985     1986      1987     1988    1989    1990    1991      1992
(a)  Estimate           3.5      20.0      90.0     180.0    240.5    2S0.7   250.7   2S0.7    a/
(b)  Actual              -        0.6       0.6       0.8     19.8     26.1   40.5      84.0   126.7    131.5
Ratio (b)/(aW            -         3%       7t        4%        8%      10%     16%      34*
I/ US$50 million from the Loan amount was cancelled on December 5, 1991.
kl The Final Disbursement was in September 1992.



- 27 -
D.  Installation and Commissioning of Transmission Lines
and Sub-stations/Switchyard (*Y
A. Installation of 400 kV AC
Transmission Lines                       Commissioned in         Lenath (kml.
1.  Ramagundam-Khammam (S/C)             March 1992                   202
2.  Khammam-Vijayawada (S/C)              March 1992                  $0
3.  Vijayawada-Gazuwaka (S/C)             January 1992                317
4.  Nagarjunasagar-Gooty (S/C)            July 1991                   298
S.  Gooty-Bangalore (S/C)                 July 1991                  _302
Total Single Circuit Lines:                                     1,229
B. 400 kV-Inter-Regional System
1.  Ramagundam-Chandrapur (D/C)           February 1991               180
2.  Vindhyachal-Singrauli (D/C)           December 1987               . 4
Total Double Circuit Lines:                                       184
C. 400 kV AC Sub-stations/Switchyard Extensions
1.  Khammam (new)                        March 1992
2.  Vijayawada (new)                      January 1992
3.  Gazuwaka (new)                        January 1992
4.  Gooty (new)                           July 1991
S.  Ramagundam (ext)                      February.1991
6.  Chandrapur (ext)                      February 1991
7.  Vindhyachal (ext)                     December 1987
8.  Singrauli (ext)                       December 1987
9.  Bangalore (ext)                       March 1990
10. Nagarjunasagar (ext)                 March 1991
(*)  Commissioning dates estimated in SAR for the original project
are given in Annex 1.



- 28 -
E.  Project Costs - Estimated and Actual
Estimated                  Actu,al
Rs Million  USS Million   Rs Milli2o  PS$-Millign
400 kV lines                  1,435.10       151.04      2,416.5      128.9
400 kV substations              851.90        89.66      1,092.6       57.0
Back-to-back HVDC
substation                    813.45        85.62      1,556.4       59.1
Metering and
Instrumentation               201.60        21.22         95.6       5.2
PLCC Communications              39.47         4a1          72.9       4.0
Sub-total                3,341.52       351.69      5,234.0     254.2
Physical Contingencies          171.17        18.03 
Price Contingencies              915.6        96.4?             
Total                    4,428.65       466.19      5,234.0     254.2
Consultancy                       23.75        2.50         10.0        0.5
Engineering and
Administration              297.4S          31.31        178.7      9.7
Total Project Cost             4,749.85      S00.00      5,422.7      264.4
(before duties
and taxes)
Duties and Taxes                 617,$Q       65.00
Total Project Cost             5,367.35      565.00
Interest During
Construction                  490.31        51.58
Front-End Fee                      6.65        t.7Q
Total Financing
Required                    5,864.31       617.28      5,422.7      264.4
wwl:wSW  t==wW   $"""GW      t:umam



- 29 -
F.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(Original and Actual)
(MtS million)
Loan Agreement                    Actual
(1)  Equipment and Materials     235,000,000                     123,721,729.58
(2)  Consultants' Services         2,500,000
(3)  Pee                              625,18?                        625,187.00
(4) Associated civil works
and erection                                                  7,316,027.03
Unallocated                   12,574,813
Difference due to cross
exchange rates on
Special Account
transactions                                              (    169,045.60)
Total disbursed                                             131,493,898.01
Amount cancelled
(Dec. 5, 1991)                                               50,000,000.00
Amount cancelled
(Sept. 8, 1992)                                              69,206,101.99
Original Loan Amount         250,000,000                    250,700,000.00



- 30 -
G. Summary of the Internal Economic Rate of Return Computations /a
OUTFLOW         INFLOW       NET       Discounted @
Investment  O & M     Revenue    OUTFLOW    11.10%
0    1985-86    3155.8      10.0       135.0      3030.9    3030.9
1    1986-87    1965.8      15.8      214.3       1767.3    1590.7
2    1987-88    2496.6      21.9      286.5       2231.1.    1807.4
3    1988-89    2184.9      34.9      359.0       1860.7     1356.7
4    1989-90    1673.3      77.8       773.2      977.9      641.7
5    1t90.91    1402.5      86.2      962.9       625.9      310.6
6    1991-92    1254.0     110.4      1370.9      -6.4       -3.4
7    1992-93    207.9      133.4      1740.7    -1399.4    -669.6
8    1993-94    718.8      204.9      2210.4    -1285.7    -553.7
9    1994-95               204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -777.4
10   1995-96                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -699.7
11   1996-97                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -629.8
12   1997-98                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -566.9
13   1998-99                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -510.2
14   1999- 0                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -459.2
15   2001- 1                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -413.3
16   2002- 2                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -372.0
17   2002- 3                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -334.8
18   2003- 4                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -301.4
19   2004- 5                204.9     2210.4    -2005.5    -271.3
20   2005- 6                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -244.1
21   2006- 7                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -219.7
22   2007- 8                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -197.8
23   2008- 9                204.9      2210.4    -2006.5    -178.0
24   2009-10                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -160.2
25   2010-11                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -144.2
26   2011-12                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -129.8
27   2012-13                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -116.8
28   2013-14                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5    -105.2
29   2014-15                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -94.6
30   2015-16                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -85.2
31   2016-17                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5      -76.7
32   2017-18                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5      -69.0
33   2018-19                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -62.1
34   2019-20                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -55.9
35   2020-21                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -50.3
36   2021-22                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -45.3
37   2022-23                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -40.8
38   2023-24                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -36.7
39   2024-25                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5     -33.0
40   2025-26                204.9      2210.4    -2005.5      -29.7
The inteemal rate of return of the project is computed as 11. I%.
La Detail tables have been forwarded to Asia Information Center.



- 31 -
H. Status of Compliance of Covenants
Section      Summary of Undertaking (Covenant)                  Status
LA 2.02(b)   GOI shall maintain a special account in            Comptied
amended   U.S. Dollars
LA 3.01 (b)   GOI onlending to NTPC under terms acceptable      Complied
to the Bank (not less than 12% per annum)
LA 4.03      GOI to furnish audit on special account            Complied
amended   (due within 6 months of FY end)
LA 4.04      GOI to furnish audit on SOEs (due within           Received
amended   6 months of FY end)
PA 2.0413.04 NTPC to take out adequete insurance                Complied
LA 4.02      (a) For goods to be supplied from overseas,        Complied
GOI to promptly grant permission to import them;   (bureaucratic
delays)
'b) For goods to be manufactured in India,         Complied
GOl to promptly issue import licenses,             (bureaucratic
make available necessary foreign exchange          delays)
and allocate materials
PA 2.02      NTPC to employ engineering consultants to assist   Complied
in carrying out Part F of the Project
PA 4.02      NTPC to have its accounts and financial statements  Complied
audited and to submit audited reports, within seven  (delays in
months of the end of the year to the Bank          earlier years)
PA 4.03      NTPC to set tariffs and other actions to achieve   Complied
a rate of return of not less than 9.5% p.a. from
April 1, 1990 and thereafter



- 32 -
1. Use of Bank Resources
I . 1 Staff Inouts
Staff inputs in carrying out the various tasks through the project cycle from preparation
in FY83 to completion in FY93 were as follows:
Task                           Inout (Staff-weeks)
Project Preparation    -              27.5
Project Appraisal                     40.7
Loan Negotiations                     04.1
Project Supervision                   46.3
Project Administration                 .t
TOTAL                          118.7
I 2 Missions
Project Cycle      Month/      Number of   Days Specializaffon Performance  Type of
Year        Persons     in       /a        Rating /0    Problems If
Field
Throuah Anoraisal
Identification 1d
Preparation /a
Pre-appraisal 14
Appraisal          10182
Suoervision
Supervision 1 05/19185 to 06/17/85   2            E; FA              1
Supervision 2 02/19186 to 03102/86   1            FA                 4
Supervision 3 03/20187 to 04101/87   2            E; FA              4
Supervision 4 01/18/88 to 02/22/88   4            E; E; FA; FA       2
Supervision 5 08/16/89 to 08/30/89   2            E; EC              2
Supervision 6 02/17/91 to 02/26/91    1           E                  2
Supervision 7 07122/91 to 07/30191    2           E; FA              2
/a E: Engineer; LO: Loan Officer; FA: Financial Analyst; EC: Economist
1 1 = No or minor problem; 2 = moderate problem; 3 - major problem
/ I: Implementation delays; Pft: Procurement problems and delays
/1 Identifcation was made by GOI in 1974. Preparation and prappraisal were made
by NTPC in 1978.



- 33 -
Annex 1
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 2283-IN)
DescriDtion of the Original Proiect
The original project approved by the Board on May 19, 1983, consisted of the following
components:
Part A  400 kV AC Transmission Lines (Construction)
Estimated in SAR
AgDroximate Le2ngth    to be commissiond by
Ramagundam-Mangur double circuit line  230 km           June 1987
Mangur-Vijayawada, double circuit line  160 km          December 1987
Vijayawada-Nellore, single circuit line  305 km         June 1987
Nellore-Red Hills, single circuit line  246 km          December 1987
Singrauli-Vindhyschal, single circuit line  14 km       March 1988
Ramagundam-Chandrapur, double circuit line 158 km       March 1988
Ear  Suststaons (400/200 kV) (Construction or Extension)
Ramagundam        - extension for the 400 kV Ramagundam-Chandrapur line and for the
second 400 kV Ramagundam-Mangur circuit (the equipment for the fir
circuit was provided under the Second Ramagundam Thermal Power
Project)
Mangur            - new {1x315 MVA)
Vijsyawada        - new (1x315 MVA)
Nellore           - new 11x315 MVA)
Red Hills         - extension for the 400 kV Nellore-Red Hills line
Chandrapur        - extension for the 400 kV Ramagundam-Chandrapur line
Singrauli         - extension for the 400 kV Singrauli-Vindhyachal line
Vindhyachal       - extension for the 400 kV Singrauli-Vindhyachal line
In SAR, the sub-stations were estimated to be commissioned with their associated transmission
lines.
Part C  500 MW HVDC Sub-staton
The construction of a (two 250 MW) back-to-back sub-station at Vindhyachal (estimated in SAR
to be commissioned In March 1988).
Elrm.   Metering and Instrumentation
Installation of tariff metering systems and disturbance recorders in important sub-stations of the
Northern, Western and Southem Regional grids.
Pnrt g   gommunications
The acquisition and utilization of power line carrier communication (PLCC) equipment for speech
transmission, line protection and data transmission on each 400 kV transmission line.
Part F Technical Services
Utilization of technical services for the carying out of detailed equipment and system  ngineeri
and supervision during construction, for the High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) back-to-back Inter-tie at
Vindhyachal linking the Singrauli and Korba power stations.



- 34 -
Annex 2
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Description of the Revised Proiect
After the loan was signed, GOI obtained financing from Sweden for the HVDC sub-station
At GOI request, in January 1985, the Bank agreed to make the change in the project description and to t
reallocation of the loan funds. NTPC did not initiate the construction of the 400 kV transmission lines an
substations -in the Southern Region until the SEBs in this region agreed to pay for the transmission charge
The last agreement was signed in April 1987. almost four years after the approval of the loan by the ban
In the meantime, the project components in the Southern Region transmission system underwent major
revision. The reasons for the revision were as follows: (il Even before the Loan Negotiations, some of th
SEBs had been questioning NTPC the usefulness to themselves of the transmission lines being constructe
under the Ramagundam project (Loan 2076-IN), and had been expressing reluctance to pay the chages f
those transmission lines. The discussions between NTPC and those SEBs became protracted. partly
because the SEBs had not dealt before with a centrally-owned utility tariffs which they thought were too
high, while at the same time each one of those SEBs had already been allocated a specified share ot the
power from the Ramagundam plant; (ii) The load generation scenario in the Southern Region had changed
substantially from that prepared by CEA in 1982, which was the basis for the transmission system of the
subject project. The construction of the Manguru (because of environmental and other problems) and the
extension of the Viiayawada thermal power plants were deferred beyond the Seventh Plan period. In
addition, there was a change in the power demand scenario, with higher priority being allocated to the
development of small-scale industry and to rural electrification in the region; and (iii) The plan to construc
the coastal transmission line (Viiayawada-Nellore-Madras) was abandoned because of the increased risk
from the serious cyclones on the coast. After lengthy discussion between NTPC, the SEBs and with the
involvement of CEA, a new transmission system configuration was proposed. It should be noted that the
power from the Ramagundam thermal plant was delivered to its customers, albeit under less than optima
transmission conditions, while the above changes were being decided upon.
On November 16, 1986, the Bank agreed on the revision of Parts A and 8 of the project as per the
following:
Status of Transmission ines and Sub-stations/Switchina Stations after Revision
A.    400 kV AC Transmission Lines                        Lenoath
Ramagundam-Khammam (single circuit)                202 km
Khammam-Vijayawada (single circuit)                110 km
Vijayawada-Gazuwaka (single circuit)               317 km
Nagarjunasagar-Gooty (single circuit)              298 km
Gooty-Bangalore (single circuit)                   302 km
Singrauli-Vindhyachal (double circuit)              4 km
Ramagundam-Chandrapur (double circuit)              180 km
B.    Sub-stations/Switching Stations
Rarn'gundam (Ext)     Hyderabad-Nagarjunasagar (Ext)  Chandrapur (Ext)
Khammam (New)         Nagarjunasagar (Ext)                Singrauli (Ext)
Vijayawada (New)      Gooty (New)                  Vindhyachal (Ext)
Gazuwaka (New)        Bangalore (Ext)
Other parts of the project were not changed.
 Date of Agreement by the Bank:     November 16, 1986
* Date of Finalization by GOB:       August 1987



MAD
CEIURAL POER    MISSION PROJECT
(Loan 2288-IN)
PMOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Avol.bllbt oI Transmlieln Line and Sub-sttion  In 9lm
Li.          Ju s2  Feb   Nor 92  Apr 92  kby 92  Jon 92  Jul 92  Aug 92  Sp 92  Oct92  Nov 92  Dec 92  Jan-oc 92
TRANSMISSION LI
1. 101143l       100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00   98.70  100.00   98.91  100.09  100.00    99.6
2. RD1-CPR2      100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00   100.0
8. NSR-GTy       99.06   99.85  100.00   99.70  90.60   97.90   98.28   96.00   07.10  100.00  100.00  100.00    09.0
4.  TT-L          9.99   99.99  100.00  100.00   90.70  100.00   09.04   06.02   90.02   09.02  100.00  100.00     9.
6. VJAW            -       -     94.    99.2  100.00   95.89  100.00   55.10  100.00  100,00  100.00   90.10    ".6
6. RD3-4WM !/              -    96.14   89.98   96.28   90.80  100.00   92.00  100.00  100,00  100.00   99.69    97.0
7. KMt-VAJ j       -       -     96.61   90.?g   97.41   90.19  100.00   92.46  100.00   99.52   93.60   91.88    95.7
/ LUr nas c_oiiond on March 20, 1992
jy Excluding avallability In Auguet 1992
SUB-STATIONS
1. VIJa ywdb    100.00   90.99   99.52  100.00  100.00   99.03  100.00   12.24     -     96.84  100.00   92.60   90.4 sJ
2.  "yderobed    99.60  100.00  08.6   100.00  100.00  100.00   99.70  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.0 cSI
8. O*uwWak       100.00  100.00  100.00   99.72  100.00   90.11  100.00   92.54  100.00  100.00  100*.0  100.00   00.0 1
4. Bengalore    100.00  100.00  100.00   89.96  100.00  100.00   99.63  100.00  100.00    9.90   93.6s  100.00   90.4 Q
6. GOoy         100.00  100.00   99.79   99.U0   99.69   99.09   99.20   98.20  100.00   99.52  100.00  100.00   99.2
Excluding sutd n In AuJut A September 1M
i% Ex0:0: shutdown In March 1992
dExeludln shutdXown In August 199
Excluing *huton In April 1992



I                                                                      NA, "IIUL 130WL MM tWPAnT0  LTD.
*                                                                               N Eic" PrAT90ES
*                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oS. .1111mm)
7 lt owing          1                    1S               1                197              1109                            1900             A9             1
* D636 013'tI                        FPOMM6  4,915 F.ee.l   cil FOMW6  At.al Fores                  ibetl Frouu_t ALterni fu.rel LAbel FreseeS-Aetuel forosot Ag1..
U Iterel law 0. "esse. (M)                       9,294           14,14            15.921           19*,8           2n.2,8           6,59l           45."s           61,197
1I tow   CA ee=.(W )on                                            1.515            1,615            I,m             2.421           S.14            5,65             4.54
IS uat$*   W e.   two                   9156   *#,0      u,492  12.150  1,446  14,406  17,Vo9  17,3 25.4  24. 11,451  5.421 46.94   40,'06 4.759   ."5?
14U   .  IbTewiff (PTleS)                           27      so n6             40      40       40      41      41      46      4       81      44              46       1
is
17 Ussidt  ,Is.                          0M       077   4,4t1  4,2e   58           .7u    727   7,901  10,715   MM.460         6     ,81   19,617  21,254  22,6    4,4
is  Vnu_e.1e. a..,.                                144              964              6              1,1769 "9                       19"             2.4"             5.742
19  wetrlet   9                           18       st       at 1  *U        24        a   Ut1                 47"     171     M5        4        .    547    "01       4U
Mae Z1am                                 15M      10      932       To70    M        i5       7 Ur     2    "a       11s  1.5        93    *,          1s  2,05     1.884
St 1AL 7  FATh       6                  5,210   ,430   4,064   6,"4   $,5 7       ,454   6,145   6,62S2  I2.I    12.743  17.264  20.515  236   24.207 26,910  8,92
14  0mI C.S                                      1,15             .1.9     1.159   1,160    1,649   *,1    2.600   8,    $5,7    ,965  4,461   9,760               38,424
66'                                                                                                                          ,                                       1.672
0   Usssl. m" a I  lueses.                         404              4       m4y      6       72M       WY7   964   1.175   1.1       1,745  loan    2,106              974
of   oeul tio                                       6               577     77"      445   1,075      S7"   2,015     912  9,"l   I.5    5.974   2,251   5,54    $3.6
tgd     etlowtW                                    112              III      7        6       16       93    404      179    S"       994    740       SO4             45s
s0o    5.                                           10               21               1                 9               3              147             133              *
! 1PM. Jt  371  IP1e1                    1.704   12.642   3M     92,945   3.1M5   8.22   4.676   4,732  7,02   7,550  10.4s  12,567   2,9s   14,577  14,406  24.134
Sl 0.. 1_s. 1..  Swn                     1,6'6    1,9    9,91    s.as    1.T4?   2,951   8.457   S,910  4,120   5,190  6,041 6,00   9,49    f,630  11.61,  15.7"
84       ....*....                         * 64    49    1,137      R70    .40       S"    2.600    I24m   4,035  1t,71   .494    2.780  5.7         5.472  5.586  65.4
65P19 bdl  fors Tom                       "9       904   All01    1,781    1,94    1,05       97   2.662    485   3.19    1.347   5,n7   5.46   $,56   5.05   30,151
Jt FoSi oiler *e                          69       9 04   1.501    1.760t   146   2,064       957   2.652    4es   5,596   1,547    5.27    5.64    5,166   5.025   30,15
so him orSod Ise .eb)                              to9)              60               Is               M2             (90)             90             M5                n
M lbS rftI                                GU       87    ttOt   1,6        1,246   2,t11      "67   8,024    45   8,306  1,847        .611  ,44   7,009   526   1.920
40 Avon" M" pled Am*t                           10,957           14,016   ",66    17.90   51,025  25.651 76,046  85.075 41.466   68,U5    9,2    75.402101,077  102,045
411t18 of  uM  so hOe                              itn               M75       6      176       7S      1    .n                 is     M5    u0ts       M5      Ito    1in
48 ots4 ftA                                                  Id    M.... .. in   as   us   on o                         "    "   Ul   M_n   M                           u
46* , tled. defed .eo           Peo.pSIeIeV   .    .ha  Ops..s.rst. la atoewe  e"d oeetlueonstee.
46 O*Sb la e6 .teiIoia o. be* 6    aed. f..' futue peejeoble..



80
81                                                                       IMTI&LM 1IHWAL Pt  CA7rTE
McB  AND APPLCATION Of BOS
64
5  WgR md9  Ibt l 81
a                                          Iwo               1966             199               I96              196             100              199              1WI
tNt ea -     0 1-6                     -                 'nn-'.e'  -..                                                                n -
59  -6.                                           I A , forone          1  .e.Fcr.1   A.upI ftercm.1  Actu1a   Forenel A.t4.  Vv.g4  AdamS FW*cow.  AIut Pt.0,6  Ackd*$
tlO CB eF tU04                                  -  ---   -- -  -   --                                                     _- -.~-
U    6p.t1t  1*lo". b. Ial.               1.606   l,JN       *,21   1.8      174?   1*"I   8.467   *.910  4.50    8,19   6,41    .006   9.416    9,660  11,11   18.794
62  Prl ttI               . tetem             0       16               s0                as                 1s           U()                                  t 65
OS  0.pmi.lIa*F()                           s7o   * 16        m        77        9      446   1.076       5"   1.065      912  1.6S1    1,46   8.174   2.181  8,648    8.625
44  Tout It.brst Cash Gas.                1,0    1,661    2,04       2.m     8.56   0.461    4.54      4.681  4.855   0.0t  '.61    9.402  2,02  1U.7U  14.464    1,49
O6 Spiwt cOs.6h95...                    1U.64    4.659   6,29    $,66        9.480   8,969   J.OW   6.07    8564    8.6        6748   4.54   8,86    12.81*         0    6,6W
US CpIRel Iwdlp                                       1                                 114                14              07                                t U?             6
T7  Los" Contd                            64,m    4,416   1,2    6,761  1t,42    J,6S6    9.94    4.66   4,676   11.U71  12.4             .72      4 6  ,019   4,4N   158487
71  O1                                                 0             1.83      4      4.SO6             4.394           1.499            4.s46           4.0001           T.4"
n1  Total 6mn'1.p                         0.225   4.416   98,6       7,6    18.416   10,165   9.094    9.160  6,670   16.471  21.84    1.056       6S    9,019   4.6176   6.421
74~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
n   TIL 94*to                            2,661   t,011  24,7     14.60   19,4D   19,40    186, 94   16.79?7  19,151  16,79*   2,307.  19.68    6.66    9.16    8.4
76
77   t.l.  1a.1,                         16 ,696   10011   16,86    14.846   17.449   17.606   18,866   17.660  11,657   19.064   8,n6   10.897  10.52    ,167    9,906   61.784
T6 0.81 Swt.
7    b19,. Omesd to 0w.                     614      492                70   1,499      666   2,600    1,246   4,08       .1"t  *,494    .7160  6.72    8.472  S.         8.64*
00  Aawtl5a41. d ftos- -                                                       S0                47         -    768      747  1,97   Sim7   2."T7   $.42    .5           2.5691
*To It D bl Gargle                          64       49               87  *,799         66    2,97      1.248  4, ,620   2.6   711   6.,I7   6.79   6,016  9,.42   6,14
62 1w.    (D...) l. V. C.                            460            2,312      166      6        416  (6.416)   60   6.011        87      .041     5S9   J.Wm       I"   (0.66
68 PomiI.. for T.                                                        1                                                  0
64 T* AICA"TW OP IUOS                     0,66    10,98              6ffO0           19,620            20.984          18.414           #6,066           4.$71  19.7    67,141
O5                                                                    606        6      102       16   5,51       10 (.156)  *a   1.109.            a      60             2.244
41 m Cm66i0t.0 to Cmi.r.                                             -0.01       9        10      49       40      11      -Am     241  .19         SIX      171    513      151
87  t1  to C.,*. (5vt# AP)
$0 rvil. Ce,...                      8.68     8.82             4.61'    1.9      S.       1.5      8.69    1.56    2.67    1.6      I.49    1.44     2.64    1.64    2.6
.*69
60(0) 0.pl1tm1  pertla.6  peII.m.                                                                                                                                                                        I*
t1



NATIONAL TERHAL POWER CORPORATION
91                                                                 eauacu Sf771~~~~~~~~~~~~1111                                  oni
U Ye,, s41. Shre   1                       196              196              19.7              19              1909            1990            199              1992
9                                                                     _.                                                                                 - _    -      -    . . ..... .
m  WD =                                           Acfmi      $       Actoo& FcaroFe"%  le*..................................................   re  ere**
102 A0S
1o   ae" 11u.6                           21I04   zs.,a  "107    16,047  86.68   2D.b1.  704 0s          , 60.00  9000  44,7t4 106,990  09,81 111,433  9422 U1114 11,18
104  LettO90geuItld                                  476   1,266      908   2.04?   L,416 e.2    S.0I9   1.210   3,00    7.14&   4.64 11.008   6.67? 14,400  1o.,m
US  14. Plood Aseee Is Ope.            1*064.00   112.0   14.690   16f,44  .84.683   10.278   7,2106  20.489 04,800  41.716 "0,096   61,410 100,611  0,640 101,70   1,345
1s0 599. Verb. In Prestor e                       19,10   41,604  $1,069  56,01   44.301  85.704   52.10? 27.112  57,002 19,091  1.660 95.30?   0.03   00,414   70,000
I09W 1.1   Fixed Aeet.                 11004.00  02,480   13.774  4.211   90.462  0811,70  10*.90  00.026 112,492  ",78 116.06  117.77  11.076  141.664 12,940  190.426
160    e ed Pee Oblee                        11       04      Is    .448        19      18       a    1.7        45        2      u      21       6S      a"4  u        1.742
lit  son-tw  dpell.o                                 8                  7             1,68              7I7            4,644            5,64            6.27            6.466
11   lwelabl.e                              240  1&,01      s8      2.234      447    .02*       00    4.05c    693   5.901   1,259  11,801   1.610   1.102   1.640   16.086
In    lveeloere                             211      700      16      9o       869   1,01       70    1.742    901   2,6U9   1.060   3.632  1.114   5,414  1,102    7.30
114  Lee S Ad.."                                     81             1.2                .,646*            7             2,614            1.024           2.0I            1.497
1,0t&.. Cr. A. 2,t/ t                         2    .1          2       to        1      4                176      2      104       2      626             231      2      S"
$so Tell C.s...S Meet.                      470   8.161      m6    9.129       "?   9.12?   1841   18.469   1,461  1u,164  2.74   22.767  2.ro2    6.79   6,062  84.495 
I17 wIe.cepiwl aspwelwre                             t1                to               to                17              so               10              41               t                        I
u11 IUIM  s85          *                   04  86.718  74.419  622.521  91.19   72.71  *04.921  *4.112 114.833   14,660 120,400  140,6U94 ".47  170.424 138,802 224.919
S"
121 U4tu16
mm  She" Coptlil teemd                            20,62            26.466   47,110  821.61   50,11?  WI,6S  53,651   44,076  57,421  46,640  s3,ns  5.27  0.995   69,641
118   U    ie0.pe                                    2911             990              734             2.00,              78            1,00            4.814             877
*14  P ed Ceale                                    1,402            8,231   0,6817    54.s   4,484    6.511  5,11   11.,"   6.40   17.193   0,112   14.420  1S.987   64.8S
1      Te Ilbt                                0  22.210        0  80.00   50.       89.040   54.751  40.976 u.6e0   14,052  183.69    66,038  74.10?  07,971 79.02  104.744
116  T.lt4  Beep-Ieee 0.16                        10.814           17,?29  40,5t2  1764r"    49,2a0  87.124  1,.173   49.446  6.*0,   5,9.19  6f,6 4    7.96 40r24   97.76
1 orre.6 Mobs                                8 f llw  m4   8.061  in9   8,091  1t0   8.77       14   6.014    840   0,78          O    11,742    655  $5.16S0   75"   22.44
"1 Totel 0.6                                 04  *3.445       1S   21.620  40.122  33.672  49.514  45.188  5S1A3   66.526  511,0'  72.641 64.151  0.464  5,460  120.214
19 1A3                                       64    .7m        1"   52,e4    1,m192  72,J20 104,265  94.1) *14.33   114,500 *90,401  140,694 126.406  170.41 166.412 224.956
to
"18 DeblstuIbg Ilato                              am2              86/64             421/             48/67           47/63            47/5            48/57   401/9  4662
2 Cewree #Mte,                              *.6      1.0     8.0      1.6      1.6      1.6     5.?      1.7    6.1      1.6    4.7       1.6    4.2      1.9    4.1       1.8
1011 SAs. 1oeiva. (.e of                     901) n   7I      a       In                60 n7            169 27 too6 20 10 n   e  2                       225      26      146
I.                                                                                                                                          .I.
sn
UN



