Document of
The World Bank                                   |  FEPY1
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3549-IN
REPORT AND RECWMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250.7 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR A
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
May 2, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 25, 1983)
US$1.00      =  Rs 9.958
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.1004
Rs 1 million = US$100,400
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Except as otherwise noted, conversions In the Staff Appraisal
Report were made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 9.5, which repre-
sents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement
period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APSEB   -        Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
CEA     -       Central Electricity Authority
GOI     -       Government of India
HVDC    -       High-voltage direct current
NHPC    -        National Hydro Power Corporation
NTPC    -       National Thermal Power Corporation
REB     -        Regional Electricity Board
REC     -       Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB     -        State Electricity Board
kV      _       kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kWh     -        kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
Mw      -       megawatt (1,000,000 watts)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:              National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC).
Amount:                   US$250.7 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                   Repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace,
at the applicable rate of interest; front-end fee of
0.25% of the base loan amount.
Relending                 From the Government of India (GOI) to NTPC, with
Terms:                 repayment over 20 years, including five years  grace,
at an interest rate of not less than 12.0% per annum.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks.
Project                  Construction of about 1,110 km of 400 kV
Description:            power transmission lines providing an inter-regional
transmission link between Chandraptur (Maharashtra)
in the Western Region and Ramagundam (Andhra
Pradesh) in the Southern Region, and additional
intra-regional transmission between Ramagundam and
Redhills (Andhra Pradesh); construction or exten-
sion of eight related 400/220 kV substations; and
construction of a high-voltage direct current
substation at Vindhyachal (Madhya Pradesh) as part
of the 400 kV inter-regional transmission link
between the existing Singrauli (Uttar Pradesh)
thermal power station in the Northern Region and
Korba (Madhya Pradesh) station in the Western
Region.  The project also includes metering,
Instrumentation and communications equipment, and
technical services. One risk is the possibility
of slippage in the implementation schedule, which
could give rise to delayed commissioning of the
power transmission facilities with consequent
delay in the realization of the economic benefits
of system interconnection. Careful coordination
and supervision during construction and attention
to manufacturers- abilities to meet delivery
schedules should keep implementation delays to a
minimum.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.-ii-.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Item                          Local         Foreign         Total
400 kV transmission lines                  106.6           44.4          151.0
400 kV sub-stations                         84.8            4.9           89.7
High-voltage sub-station                     8.4           77.3           85.7
Metering and instrumentation                 9.3           11.9           21.2
Communications equipment                     -              4.1            4.1
Technical services                           -              2.5            2.5
Engineering and administration              31.3             -            31.3
Base Cost                               240.4          145.1          385.5
Physical Contingencies                      10.7            7.3           18.0
Price Contingencies                         55.9           40.6           96.5
Total Project Cost
(excluding taxes and duties)            307.0          193.0          500.0
Taxes and Duties                            65.0            -             65.0
Total Project Cost                      372.0          193.0          565.0
Interest During Construction                51.6            -             51.6
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                   -              0.7            0.7
Total Financing Requirement             423.6          193.7          617.3



-iii--
Financing Plan:                                       (US$ millions)
Local         Foreign         Total
Bank                           57.0           193.7         250.7
GOI loans and equity          366.6            -            366.6 1/
Total             423.6           193.7          617.3
Estimated                                             (US$ millions)
Disbursements:  Bank FY           FY84      FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Annual            8.0 2/  47.5    94.5    77.5    17.5         5.7
Cumulative        8.0      55.5   150.0   227.5   245.0   250.7
Rate of Return:    About 13%.
Appraisal Report: No. 4293-IN, dated April 26, 1983.
1/  The Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), representing the five Nordic
countries of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland, has
expressed interest in providing co-financing support for the construc-
tion and equipping of the high-voltage sub-station at Vindhyachal and
has approached the Government of India on this matter. NIB support,
if provided, would most likely be in the form of tied financing. In
the event that agreement between GOI and NIB were to be reached on
such a proposal the financing plan outlined above would require
modification accordingly.
2/ Including payment of front-end fee of about US$0.7 million.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR A CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India for US$250.7 million on standard terms to help finance a Central Power
Transmission Project, designed to improve power transmission in India through
the provision of inter-regional transmission links between the Western and
Southern Regional transmission grids, and Northern and Western Regional grids,
as well as additional transmission capacity from the Ramagundam thermal power
plant to southern India. The proceeds of the loan will be onlent by the
Government to the National Thermal Power Corporation for twenty years, includ-
ing five years- grace, at an interest rate of not less than 12.0% per annum.
The exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource Mobi-
lization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy Is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita Income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Third Calcutta Urban Development Project,
(No. P-3544-IN), dated April 28, 1983.



-2-
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net foreign savings has never risen
above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, cor-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, infrastructural bottlenecks and price
stability with an overall growth of the economy at 1.6 percentage points above
the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively.  The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP



-3-
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though les-
sened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed export
markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was able,
however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the momen-
tum of the investment program through largely successful public sector resource
mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in support of this
effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic policies
mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon. Continued
improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace than in
the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Most other major crops also
experienced negative growth in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this
still represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly com-
parable monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The
Government was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through effi-
cient management of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of
foodgrain imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps.
These policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and con-
tributed to price stability during the year. While the management of the
foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect
of the drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the
monsoon in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and prob-
able future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand.
The balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain
consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time.
Thus, programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the
efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance. Neverthe-
less, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy. Railway
traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from 1981/82. The
lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational efficiency of the
railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like steel, iron ore,
coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in 1982/83), after
10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There were no major
shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal. Recent easing
of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily from better
utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improvement must
result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important that India
maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize sufficient
resources to do so.



-4-
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India-s low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growtb' in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of sup-
pliers' and export credits. India-s favorable debt service profile has enabled
India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over, relatively
high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted commercial
loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers- credits of about
US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement



-5-
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion over three years (1981/82 to 1983/84), SDR 2.5 billion of
which have already been drawn. The transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed
the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four months
of import coverage in 1981/82. In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the
EFF, financing requirements were met by increased non-concessional borrowing
(about US$2,000 million) and a 10X increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan invest-
ment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of develop-
ment, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been needed
to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, transport and
irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is
scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater efficiency
and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors clearly
can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been made.
As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic service
sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the



-6-
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India-s
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further invest-
ment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments.  In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrow-
ing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of
such a growth strategy.  However, an important element in providing India with
the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assis-
tance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will.choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's
efforts to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of
the Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher efficiency of investment to
support an adequate rate of growth is a key element in maintaining India's
recently improved creditworthiness. India is still a very poor country with a



-7-
large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human development
and basic infrastructure. The fact that India has been able over the past
seven years to maintain a rate of growth above the long term trend, despite the
poor monsoons of 1979/80 and 1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more
open trade policy and concerted efforts to remove constraints on the growth of
productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign
and domestic, can sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the
long-run trend of 3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of
population increase to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a
doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per
annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant difference to the
prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overes-
timated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth rate
has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However, the
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world½s poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces-which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (thoughl the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of-
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 71 loans and 156 development
credits to India totalling US$4,783 million and US$11,447 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,332 million has been
repaid, and US$5,907 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1983. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1983
totalled US$1,008 million, representing an increase of about 17 percent over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$220.4
million, of which US$28.3 million has been repaid, US$56.2 million sold and
US$17.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118.6 million, US$111.1 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at helping to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance institutions.
Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The coitinued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short



-9-
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India-s needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1983, outstanding loans
to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,571 million, of which US$1,854 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,717 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group-s share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
29.     The performance of the Indian power supply industry and the
economy as a whole are closely related, and economic growth and improve-
ment of the standard of living depend to a large degree on the development
of the power sector.  Since alternative sources of energy are not readily
available in the amounts needed, shortage of power has an immediate impact
on virtually all activities of the economy. Energy matters have been
receiving top priority consideration in Central and State Government
policy planning, and the power sector now takes the largest share of
India's public investment resources (12% of the Sixth Five-Year Plan
outlay). In spite of this emphasis, demand for power continues to out-
strip supply.
Power Supply and Demand - India-Wide
30.     In the 1950s and 1960s, installed capacity and power generation
managed to keep pace with the nation's demand for power, both growing at
an average annual rate of 10%-12%. Since 1970, the situation has
deteriorated: delays in commissioning new power projects, operating and
maintenance problems, and insufficient investment under severe budget
constraints have led to a critical situation in which demand for power
consistently outstrips supply. This situation was exacerbated by
below-average monsoon rains (particularly in the early 1970s and in 1979)
which affected hydro-electric power generation, and an unstable coal
supply caused by disruptions in coal mining and transport, as well as the
poor quality of the coal itself. Between 1970/71 and 1974/75, growth in
power generation averaged only 5% annually. The situation improved con-
siderably over the period 1975/76 through 1979/80, with growth in both
generation and capacity averaging 7%-9% annually. This improvement
resulted from successive good monsoons in 1975/76 and 1976/77, improved
coal supply, and a concerted effort to improve project implementation,
thermal capacity utilization and overall power system management. In
1979/80, however, generation increased by only about 2% in spite of a 7%
increase in capacity, due mainly to lower hydro plant availability than
normal. The situation has since improved with power generation increasing
at a greater rate than installed capacity:  data for 1980/81 and 1981/82
indicate an average increase for these two years of about 8.0% per year
for power generation and 6.5% per year for installed capacity indicating
better utilization of existing resources.  Nevertheless, power shortages
have persisted in many parts of the country, particularly in the Eastern
Region. Total installed generating capacity as of March 1982 was about
35,000 MW, including non-utility plant. Of this total, about 63% was
conventional thermal, 35% hydro, and 2% nuclear.



-11-
31.     Industry consumes about 60% of all electricity sold, while
agriculture (mainly irrigation) accounts for about 18%, domestic use for
about 12%, and other uses about 10%. As a result of accelerated agricul-
tural development, there has been a marked growth of power consumption in
the rural areas where more than 80% of India's population lives. The
number of electrified villages, for example, grew from just over 3,000 in
1950/51 to an estimated 300,000, or about 52% of all the villages in
India, by the end of 1982. Projections made by India's Central Elec-
tricity Authority (CEA) in its long-term system plan indicate that over
the thirteen-year period 1981/82-1994/95, utility generating capacity
should grow at an average annual rate of about 9.5% to total some
106,000 MW, of which about 59,000 MW (56%) would be thermal, 44,000 MW
(41%) hydro and 3,500 MW (3%) nuclear. About 15,000 MW of the additional
generating capacity are expected to be added by 1984/85.
Power Supply and Demand - Southern Region
32.     The Southern Region, in which most of the project's transmission
lines are located, comprises the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka,
Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The major supply authorities of the Southern
Region are the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) of these States, and the
Mysore Power Corporation. In addition, a number of small municipalities
are also engaged in power supply. The Southern Region is the only fully
integrated electricity supply region in India, controlled by a Regional
Load Dispatch Center at Bangalore. The total installed capacity in the
Region in March 1982 was about 8,132 MW, of which about 63% is hydro.
Projects already committed would increase installed capacity by about
7,800 MW (of which about 48% would be hydro) by the end of the decade.
Both Karnataka's and Kerala's power supply are derived solely from hydro
plants; only Andhra Pradesh has more thermal than hydro capacity.  The
hydro/thermal mix in the Region enables a balance to be maintained in
power generation year-round:  hydro generation is maximized during the
monsoon months, and thermal during early summer.
33.     In the 1970s, installed capacity increased by about 7% per annum,
while available capacity at peak increased by about 7.5% per annum,
resulting in a significant improvement in availability during the period,
from about 65% to more than 70%. In recent years, however, development
has been erratic. Installed capacity has been increasing at about 7% per
annum, but peak availability has declined to about 60% of installed
capacity. Forced outages have suppressed the growth of peak demand, and
in recent years severe supply restrictions were imposed in Karnataka and
Kerala, especially during 1981/82, on industrial consumers. Potential
unconstrained peak demand in the Region is expected to grow at about 9%
per annum until 1995, and energy demand at about 8% per annum. New addi-
tions to capacity in the present and subsequent years are expected to
increase supply reliability almost immediately. The probabilities of loss
of load, even with high forced outage rates, are expected to be reasonably



-12-
low during the 1980s. Much depends on the timely approval and implementa-
tion of generation projects, and the provision of appropriate transmission
capacity.
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
34.     Since 1954, the Bank has made thirteen loans to India for power
projects amounting to US$982.5 million and IDA fifteen credits totalling
US$2,096 million. Of these amounts, US$2,139 million is for generating
plant; US$23 million for construction equipment for the Beas
hydro-electric project; US$380 million for the provision of high-voltage
transmission; and US$536.5 million for the support of rural electrifica-
tion schemes. Fifteen loans and credits have been completed: ten for
generating plant, the Beas Project, the first three Power Transmission
Projects, and the First Rural Electrification Project. The Fourth Power
Transmission (Credit 604-IN of January 1976), First Singrauli
(Credit 685-IN of April 1977), First Korba (Credit 793-IN of May 1978),
Third Trombay (Loan 1549-IN of June 1978), and First Ramagundam
(Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN of February 1979) Thermal Power Projects,
and the Second Rural Electrification Project (Credit 911-IN of June 1979),
are in an advanced stage of implementation.  The credit for the Second
Singrauli Thermal Power Project (Credit 1027-IN) and the credit/loan for
the first stage of the Farakka Thermal Power Project (Credit 1053-IN and
Loan 1887-IN) were approved in May and June 1980, respectively. The
credit for the second stage of the Korba Thermal Power Project and the
loan for the second stage of the Ramagundam Thermal Power Project were
approved in July and December 1981, respectively. The loan for the Third
Rural Electrification Project was approved in June 1982. The First and
Second Singrauli, First Korba, and Trombay projects are on schedule. The
Farakka and Ramagundam projects are proceeding satisfactorily after ini-
tial delays. The first two units of Singrauli were commissioned on
schedule in 1982. The third Singrauli unit and the first at Korba will be
commissioned soon.
35.     A project performance audit was conducted in 1980 for the Second
Power Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN). The project was considered to
have been successful in assisting the nine beneficiary SEBs in extending
their transmission systems to help meet their growing power requirements.
Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the appraisal
forecast. Rehabilitation of the finances of the SEBs, which commenced
under this project, is continuing under subsequent projects. The audit
highlighted the difficulties of adequately supervising this project which
consisted of many wide-scattered subprojects, and of effecting institu-
tional improvements in the absence of a close working relationship between
the Bank Group and the beneficiary SEBs. With the assumption of increased
responsibilities by the CEA in the power sector, a considerably more
effective relationship with the SEBs is envisaged.



-1 3-
Sector Institutions
36.     The institutional structure of the Indian power sector is complex.
Under the Indian Constitution, the responsibility for supplying power is
shared between the Central Government and the State Governments, and full
agreement between the Center and the States is required for the implemen-
tation of most actions. With the rapid expansion of the power sector,
there has been an increasing need to coordinate the activities in the
power industry beyond State boundaries, and various agencies have been
established with a view to promoting integrated power development in the
country. The principal agencies in the sector are: the State Electricity
Boards, the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs), the Central Electricity
Authority, the two Central power corporations--the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC)--and
the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
37.     The SEBs were constituted by the State Governments under the
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, to promote the coor-
dinated development of generation, transmission and distribution of elec-
tricity in the most efficient and economical manner, and to control and
regulate private licensees and utilities. The States effectively own or
control over 90% of electricity supply facilities. While the SEBs are
corporate entities and enjoy some autonomy in the management of their
day-to-day operations, they are under the control of State Governments in
such matters as capital investment, tariffs, borrowings, pay scales and
personnel policies.
38.     As a means of improving collaboration between SEBs and estab-
lishing Regional rather than State power systems, Regional Electricity
Boards have been set up for each of the Northern, Southern, Eastern,
Western and North-Eastern Regions. The general function of an REB is to
coordinate the operation of the Regional power system to the maximum
benefit of the Region as a whole, to coordinate overhaul and maintenance
programs, to determine generation schedules and power available for trans-
fer between States, and to determine tariffs for the transfer of power
within the Region. At present, REBs function mainly in an advisory role.
39.     The CEA was constituted in 1950 with responsibility for developing
national power policy and coordinating the activities of the various
agencies involved in electricity supply. Its powers were enlarged by
amendments in 1976 to the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. It is now also
responsible for the formulation and coordination of plans for power
development, optimization of investments in the power sector for the whole
country, development of interconnected system operation, training of
personnel, and research and development. Its Thermal Department takes
responsibility for monitoring the performance and maintenance records of
thermal power stations, and for organizing the training of power station
personnel. The Economic and Commercial Department accumulates data on



-14-
economic, financial and accounting aspects of the power industry, both at
Center and State levels, with particular reference to the operations of
the SEBs, and advises SEBs on financial matters.
40.     Because SEBs had been unable to build and maintain sufficient
plant to meet the rising demand, GOI in 1975 incorporated NTPC and NHPC,
whose main purpose is to construct, own and operate large Central power
stations, as well as high-voltage power transmission lines and associated
substations. NTPC is at present building six large thermal power sta-
tions, while NHPC is building three hydro stations.  Although the Central
Government is becoming increasingly important in the sector, the SEBs will
continue to play a major role, particularly in hydro-electric projects.
The States own most hydro sites and are unlikely to turn over these sour-
ces of comparatively inexpensive energy to the Center. NHPC can develop
hydro sites only when the water rights are clear and the State has sur-
rendered its claim on them.
41.     The REC was constituted in 1969 and registered under the Companies
Act, 1956, as a limited company wholly owned by GOI. Its primary objec-
tive is to finance rural electrification schemes prepared by SEBs
throughout India, functioning as a financial intermediary with technical
expertise, and ensuring the efficient onlending of funds drawn primarily
from GOI. REC coordinates its lending operations with the activities of
other agencies which provide financing for rural development. Although
the amount of REC financial support is small in relation to total SEB
operations, REC today finances more than half of total rural electrifica-
tion expenditures.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
42.     The Bank Group has had a continuing dialogue with the Government
in seeking solutions to a number of complex and politically sensitive
problems which have confronted the Indian electricity supply industry
since Independence.. The sensitivity of Center-State relations and the
political constraints arising from the fact that electricity supply is
within the concurrent jurisdiction of the Central and State Governments
(para 36) have dictated a policy of seeking progress through cooperation.
More specifically, the Bank Group's main objectives in its lending opera-
tions in the Indian power sector are: (a) to accelerate the installation
of generating and transmission capacity to eliminate power shortages and
to promote measures to improve the operation and maintenance of existing
plant; (b) to foster comprehensive long-range regional and national system
planning so as to assure implementation of a least-cost power development
program; (c) to promote improvements in sector organization and training;
and (d) to strengthen the finances of the sector institutions, par-
ticularly the SEBs.



-15-
43.     Some noteworthy results have been achieved, which include:
(a) the establishment of the REBs and later of the Centrally-owned power
companies (NTPC and NHPC), which marked the first important steps towards
Central ownership of power generation and transmission facilities;
(b) reorganization and strengthening of the CEA through amendment of the
Electricity (Supply) Act in 1976; (c) amendment of the financial provi-
sions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, which provided for the development
of SEBs on a more commercial basis, with the objective of financing from
internal sources a reasonable proportion of their investments (para 44);
(d) implementation of action plans by a number of SEBs, designed to
improve their financial performance through tariff increases, rationaliza-
tion of manpower requirements, improved maintenance management, and the
introduction of other cost-effective measures; (e) completion of tariff
studies by most of the SEBs with a view to reassessing tariff policies
(para 65); (f) satisfactory progress of NTPC's generation/transmission
construction program with Bank Group assistance (para 46); and
(g) establishment of the Committee on Power to review all aspects of the
power sector (para 45).
44.     Two areas of specific concern to the Bank Group in the past have
been the lack of a nationwide long-range plan for power development, and
the weak financial position of some SEBs. With regard to the first of
these, a long-range national power development study designed to provide
the basis for a least-cost power development program was completed by GOI
in late 1982. The study projects the growth in power demand and the
corresponding capacity expansion requirements through the year 2000,
according to different scenarios based upon India's rate of economic
growth. A least-cost expansion program for each of the five electricity
supply regions is also derived in the study. With regard to the financial
performance of the SEBs, there has been considerable improvement in over-
all performance since 1978/79. GOI is keen to maintain the rehabilitation
effort and further improve performance through the introduction of finan-
cial policies that would enable the SEBs to operate more along commercial
lines and enhance their self-financing capability. With the approval in
1982 of the Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-IN), new finan-
cial performance criteria, which set specific levels of internal cash
generation and rural electrification subsidies paid by the States to the
SEBs, were established for those SEBs intending to participate in the
project. A number of SEBs have already undertaken to fulfill these
requirements, and all of the major SEBs are expected to do so. These
measures should lead to further improvements in the SEBs financial per-
formance in the 1980s.
45.     In 1978 the Indian authorities recognized that all aspects of the
sector needed to be reviewed in depth and that satisfactory solutions had
to be found for outstanding sector development problems. Consequently,
GOI established in November 1978 a Committee on Power whose purpose was to
examine all aspects of the power industry and make recommendations for



-16-
improvements. The Committee completed its task and submitted its conclu-
sions to GOI in September 1980. These conclusions refer to all major
aspects of the power sector--power planning, project formulation and
implementation, operation and maintenance, organization and management,
finance, financial management and tariffs, rural electrification, and
research and development. Implementation of most of the Committee's
recommendations is already underway: for example, better planning proce-
dures and improved operations and maintenance management, such as plant
breakdown procedure and spare parts procurement. However, other important
measures require due deliberation by GOI and the State Governments and
their joint agreement before they can be implemented. These measures
include sector development, organizational structure, and sector finances.
46.     In 1982, GOI submitted a program for the implementation of five
categories of power sector improvements which the Bank Group considered
areas of high priority. The five categories are: (a) improving the
performance of thermal power plants; (b) coordinating power development
with the development of other sectors; (c) intensifying hydro-electric
power development; (d) strengthening the role of the Central sector in
power generation and transmission; and (e) establishing appropriate finan-
cial objectives and policies for SEBs. Satisfactory progress has been
made in these areas, and a number of actions have already been achieved.
For example, teams of specialists have been established by the Department
of Power to visit all power plants with 100/120 MW and 200/210 MW thermal
generating units in the country to diagnose technical and operational
problems, propose solutions and assign responsibilities for their
implementation. The draft long-range power plan, forecasting power demand
and capacity expansion through the year 2000, has been completed
(para 44). The first Bank Group supported hydro-electric project in India
(Upper Indravati) was recently negotiated, a second project (Bodhghat) has
been posed to the Bank, and a number of others are in advanced stages of
preparation. GOI, through NTPC, now has under construction and partly in
operation about 10,000 MW of power generating capacity, which includes, as
well as the four large thermal plants at Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and
Farakka being financed by the Bank Group, two new thermal plants (Rihand
and Vindhyachal) begun by NTPC in 1982. The proposed project is designed
to reinforce the Centrally-owned power transmission grid, and provide the
first stage of integration of the Northern, Western and Southern Regional
grids.  NTPC has been decentralized, providing regional organizations for
more effective monitoring, control and operation of its power generation
and transmission facilities. Finally, draft legislation for amendment of
the financial provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 has been
prepared by GOI for submission to Cabinet in the spring of this year; a
uniform system of commercial accounting for the SEBs is under development;
and new financial performance criteria for the SEBs have been introduced
(para 44).



-17-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.     The project was prepared by NTPC and appraised by a mission which
visited India in September/October 1982. A Staff Appraisal Report is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations
were held in Washington in April 1983. GOI and NTPC were represented by a
delegation with Mr. S. P. Bajpai as coordinator. A Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
48.     The proposed project, consisting of a series of single and
double-circuit transmission lines and associated sub-stations, is designed
to improve power transmission in India through the provision of an
inter-regional transmission link between Chandrapur in Maharashtra and
Ramagundam in Andhra Pradesh, connecting the Western and Southern Regional
transmission grids, additional transmission capacity from the Ramagundam
thermal power plant to Redhills in the southern part of the country, and a
high-voltage direct current (HVDC) sub-station at Vindhyachal in Madhya
Pradesh, forming part of the inter-regional link between the Northern and
Western Regional transmission grids connecting the existing Singrauli
(Uttar Pradesh) and Korba (Madhya Pradesh) thermal power plants. The
project, in addition to providing a major transmission capability to the
south, will permit larger power transfers between the Northern, Western
and Southern Regions, enabling them to meet growing system needs in a more
integrated manner.
49.     The project comprises the following components:
(a) about 550 km of 400 kV double-circuit power transmission lines
and about 560 km of 400 kV single-circuit lines, primarily in the Southern
Region;
(b) the construction or extension of eight related 400/220 kV
sub-stations;
(c) the construction of a high-voltage direct current sub-station
at Vindhyachal, where a 1,260 MW thermal power plant is under construc-
tion;
(d) metering, instrumentation and communications equipment;
(e) technical services for equipment and system engineering for
the HVDC link, and for supervision during its construction.



-18-
Project Implementation
50.     The project will be implemented over a five-year period
(FY84-FY88) by the National Thermal Power Corporation, as part of its
ongoing power development program. This program consisted initially of
the construction and operation of four centrally-owned thermal power
stations and associated transmission facilities at Singrauli, Korba,
Ramagundam and Farakka, but was expanded last year to include two addi-
tional large thermal power plants--Vindhyachal (1,260 MW) in Madhya
Pradesh and Rihand (1,000 MW) in Uttar Pradesh--as well as the proposed
project. The 400 kV transmission system being implemented by NTPC under
its thermal power projects and by the SEBs under previous power transmis-
sion projects is based upon the recommendation of the Central Electricity
Authority, and has been included in India's long-term power plan as part
of the least-cost transmission component of that plan.
51.     NTPC will construct, own and operate the transmission facilities
proposed under the project, over which power will be distributed from each
plant and sold in bulk to SEBs. The inter- and intra-Regional links being
established under the project will be part of the 400 kV interconnected
Regional systems which eventually will be integrated into a national grid.
52.     The project comprises a number of major works which must be care-
fully coordinated to ensure efficient progress. NTPC has been handling
the construction of 400 kV lines and sub-stations effectively over the
last few years under each of its thermal power projects. The same arran-
gement is proposed to be followed for this project. The major elements of
the 400 kV transmission design and construction have been standardized for
all India and form the basis for detailed design of the transmission lines
under the proposed project.  The HVDC link, however, involves a technology
which is being introduced for the first time in the Indian power sector.
The contract for the supply of the equipment will include adequate provi-
sion for supervision of erection and commissioning of the link. The
engineering of the link will be handled by competent consultants
(para 53).
53.     The types of transmission links and their associated carrying
capacities have been established by CEA on the basis of system studies
aimed at evolving a power transmission system based on requirements to the
end of the decade. CEA, with the assistance of consultants, is extending
these studies to cover the period to 1995. Detailed equipment and system
engineering support will be required as part of the proposed project in
connection with the HVDC link between Vindhyachal and Singrauli. Con-
struction of the HVDC link after the equipment has been selected will also
need to be closely supervised. Consultants with adequate experience in
these areas will provide the necessary support and supervision, which are
expected to require a total of about 190 man-months of engineering conr
sultancy services at a rate of about US$13,000 per month. NTPC will



-19-
accordingly appoint engineering consultants satisfactory to the Bank for
the purpose of providing the required engineering support and superv'sion
(Sectlon 2.02 of Project Agreement).
54.     The basic control and communication facilities required for
integrated operation of the Regional grids have been included with the
Regional Load Dispatch Centers which are financed as part of the Fourth
Power Transmission Project (Cr. 604-IN). Power line carrier communication
equipment, and equipment for speech transmission, line protection, and
data transmission, are provided for each 400 kV line under the proposed
project. Communications equipment for the transmission links, and data
acquisition systems for important sub-stations, are also included.
Project Cost and Financing
55.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies but exclud-
Ing about US$65 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about
US$500 million equivalent, of which about US$193 million (39%) represents
the estimated foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction adds
about US$52 million to the financing required. A capitalized front-end
fee on the proposed Bank loan adds approximately a further US$0.7 million
(US$625,187). The principal cost components, net of physical and price
contingencies, are: 400 kV transmission lines US$151 million; 400 kV
sub-stations US$90 million; HVDC sub-station US$86 million; engineering
and administration US$31 million; metering and instrumentation
US$21 million; communications equipment US$4 million; technical consult-
ancy services US$2.5 million. The project cost estimates are based on
post-1980 actual prices for similar projects, updated to mid-1982 levels.
Price contingencies, amounting to about 19% of base cost, are based on
expected inflation rates of 8.5% for 1982/83, 8.0% for 1983/84, 7.5% for
1984/85, 7.0% for 1985/86, and 6.0% yearly thereafter, for both local and
foreign costs. Physical contingencies of about 10% on civil works and 5%
on mechanical and electrical equipment have been allowed, amounting to
about 4% of base cost.
56.     The proposed Bank loan of US$250.7 million (including the capital-
ized front-end fee of about US$0.7 million) will finance all of the for-
eign exchange costs of about US$193 million and about US$58 million of the
local costs, and will cover about 50% of the total project cost net of
taxes and duties. The balance of the funds required, aggregating about
US$367 million equivalent (including about US$52 million interest during
construction), will be provided by GOI from its own resources. The
proceeds of the proposed loan will be onlent by GOI to NTPC at an interest
rate of not less than 12.0% per annum with repayment over 20 years,
including five years' grace, under a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI
and NTPC. The standard interest rate currently used by GOI in lending to
industrial and commercial undertakings in the public sector is 12.5%.
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and NTPC is a



-20-
condition of effectiveness for the loan (Section 6.01(a) of Loan Agree-
ment). The exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by the Govern-
ment of India. The average inflation rate was 9.1% in 1981/82 and 2.2% in
1982/83. The onlending rate of 12.5% per annum to NTPC is therefore
positive in real terms.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.     All equipment financed under the proposed loan will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts for such equipment could include some civil works,
in those cases where these cannot be disassociated from the equipment, as
for example, in the substation structure.- NTPC will procure directly the
required conductor and line material (insulators, hardware and electrical
equipment), but contracts for supply and erection of towers, stringing of
conductors, and design, erection and commissioning of sub-stations will be
let separately to competent contractors based on local competitive bid-
ding. Indian manufacturers competing under international competitive
bidding will be granted a preference margin of 15%, or the current rate of
import duty, whichever is less. Local manufacturers are expected to bid
for almost all categories of equipment and materials, and are expected to
win most of the contract awards. Contracts of more than US$2,500,000
equivalent will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All work not
financed from the proposed loan will be subject to NTPC's procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory. The proceeds of the loan will be
disbursed over a 5-1/2 year period (FY84-FY89), and will cover 100% of the
c.i.f. cost of imported goods or of the ex-factory cost of goods manufac-
tured in India, and 100% of the cost of technical advisory services by
consultants.
NTPC Finances
58.     NTPC is currently in the seventh year of an investment program in
which it expects to construct and commission six large-scale thermal power
stations with an aggregate generating capacity of 10,560 MW (three
2,100 MW stations at Ramagundam in Andhra Pradesh, Korba in Madhya
Pradesh, and Farakka in West Bengal; one 2,000 MW station at Singrauli in
Uttar Pradesh; one 1,260 MW station at Vindhyachal in Madhya Pradesh; and
one 1,000 MW station at Rihand in Uttar Pradesh).  A further 3,000 MW of
generating capacity is included in the program for projects not yet iden-
tified. In addition, about 8,000 km of 400 kV transmission lines, includ-
ing about 1,100 km under the proposed project, are slated for construc-
tion. The Government's investment in this development has undergone
continuous review during the past five years. As a result, the original
investment program, which was designed to provide a generating capacity of
7,300 MW and about 6,000 km of 400 kV transmission lines, has been
extended in stages by eight years through 1995/96 and increased by about
US$11,987 million to about US$16,754 million equivalent.  NTPC's current



program reflects an increase of about US$9,715 million equivalent over the
program previously revised during appraisal of the Second Ramagundam
Thermal Power Project (Loan 2076-IN) in October 1981. The bulk of the
increase (86%) is accounted for by the increase in generating capacity and
transmission facilities: the plants at Vindhyachal and Rihand, the uniden-
tified new projects, and the proposed project have all been incorporated
into the program since the Ramagundam appraisal. The remaining 14% of the
increase in the investment program will finance increased costs for sta-
tion and transmission facilities at Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka, res-
cheduling of generating plant commissioning dates and expected increases
in equipment costs. Finance for the increased investment program will
come from NTPC's increased internal resources accruing during the
five-year period of the extended construction program, and from GOI in the
form of long-term loans and equity share capital.
59.     NTPC commenced commercial operations in February 1982 when its
first 200 MW generating unit at Singrauli was commissioned. NTPC's earn-
ings have been projected on the assumption that it will supply bulk power
to SEBs at regional tariff levels sufficient to achieve a 9.5% rate of
return on its total net fixed assets in operation. This was agreed under
previous lending operations and is to be achieved from 1990/91, when
NTPC's sales in respect of the four Bank Group-financed plants at
Singraull, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka are forecast to reach about 85%
of their projected total output. The plants at Vindhyachal and Rihand,
which were recently included in NTPC's investment program, are both due to
be commissioned before this date. In the intervening years, from 1983/84
through 1989/90, NTPC should be able to achieve a minimum rate of return
of 8% per annum, on the basis of adjusted assets, operating expenditures
and revenues which take into account the timing of plant conmissionings
and the required stabilization period for generating plant.  The use of
"adjusted assets" as a basis for the rate of return in these intervening
years helps to smooth out fluctuations in the rate of return resulting
from the inclusion of newly-commissioned generating units in the assets
base. The measure provides the means for monitoring NTPC's progress
towards achieving the required 9.5% rate of return from 1990/91. NTPC
will set tariffs from 1983/84 at the level required to achieve in 1990/91
and thereafter a rate of return of 9.5% on average net fixed assets in
operation (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement). NTPC further intends to
achieve, in the years 1983/84 through 1989/90, a rate of return of 8% on
an adjusted assets, operating expenditures, and revenues basis. In view
of the high initial capital investment in the early stages of NTPC-s power
development and the time involved in commissioning generating capacity,
this approach to tariff setting is appropriate.
60.     Under previous loans and credits GOI and NTPC agreed to prepare
bulk supply contracts for the sale of energy from NTPC's power plants to
the SEBs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group. Draft
contracts were provided to the Bank Group in respect of the Singrauli and



-22-
Korba plants, and these are in principle acceptable. However, agreement
with certain SEBs, and in particular the Uttar Pradesh SEB, on the finan-
cial terms of sale has not yet been reached, primarily because of a reluc-
tance on the part of the SEBs to accept a recent GOI directive requiring
NTPC to earn 12% net income (after interest) on equity. In the interim,
NTPC has been selling power from the Singrauli station at the inter-State
rate of 35 paise per kWh, with the agreement that such sales would be
retroactively adjusted to the bulk sale contract price when final agree-
ment has been reached. The inter-State rate is approximately on par with
the 1983/84 rates projected by NTPC for its Singrauli and Korba stations
to enable it to meet its financial performance targets. However, it is
essential that the issue is resolved quickly and the required bulk supply
contracts are finalized. In view of this, execution of the bulk supply
contracts for the sale of electricity from the Singrauli and Korba sta-
tions between NTPC and the beneficiary SEBs is a condition of effective-
ness for the loan (Section 6.01(b) of Loan Agreement).
61.    Projected annual revenues for each year from 1982/83 through
1994/95 are based on a forecast 1990/91 average bulk supply price for
power of 43.9 paise (US cents 4.6) per kWh, excluding fuel surcharge and
Central excise duty. This price level is 12.1 paise (US cents 1.3) higher
than the 31.8 paise (US cents 3.3) per kWh rate calculated at the last
revision of the investment program for the appraisal of the Second
Ramagundam Project. About half the price increase is attributable to
increases in base fuel costs, operations and maintenance costs, and
depreciation, while the remainder represents contribution towards debt
service and net income. Minor losses in the early years of operation of
the Southern and Eastern Regions are anticipated, but these are acceptable
as part of NTPC-s development program. Operating costs of the transmis-
sion facilities provided by the proposed project will be recovered through
the regional tariffs as a separate tariff component. NTPC will become
profitable in 1982/83, and, following the rapid commissioning of plant
from 1983/84, earnings will rise rapidly to a 12.3% rate of return in
1993/94 when all Its generating units are operating fully.
62.     The overall investment cost for the years 1976/77 through 1995/96
is estimated to amount to about US$16,754 million equivalent. The Govern-
ment will provide funds, through a combination of long-term loans and
equity capital, in amounts such that NTPC's debt/equity ratio will not
exceed 1:1. As in the case of NTPC's previous Bank Group-assisted power
projects, NTPC will inform the Bank of any proposal to modify existing
limitations on its borrowing powers prior to its consideration by NTPCGs
shareholders (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
63.     NTPC-s capitalization as of March 31, 1983, the end of the finan-
cial year in which NTPC began to earn revenues, is expected to be about
US$1,790 million, divided between GOI loans (including the onlending of
Bank Group finance) and equity capital in a ratio of 30/70. In



-2 3-
March 1989, after the completion of the proposed project, total
capitalization will be about US$11,997 million, with a debt/equity ratio
of 48/52.  No new debt is forecast after 1991/92 for the current invest-
ment program, and this, combined with a significant increase in internal
cash generation, will reduce the debt/equity ratio to 33/67 by March 1994.
NTPC's issued share capital will be raised progressively during this
period from a level of about US$1,239 million at the end of 1982/83 to
US$6,736 million by the end of 1993/94.
Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
64.     The Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board (APSEB) will be the
major indirect beneficiary of the proposed project as the 400 kV transmis-
sion lines linking Ramagundam with Redhills, as well as the sub-stations
at Ramagundam, Vijayawada and Nellore, will be located in the State of
Andhra Pradesh.  Consequently, a significant portion of the power carried
by these facilities will be consumed in this State. APSEB's investment
program for the period 1982/83 through 1988/89 provides for an additional
1,760 MW (1,340 MW hydro and 420 MW thermal) of installed power generation
capacity, representing an increase of about 81% over the present level.
Power generation is expected to increase by about 90% in the same period
as a result of the added capacity and greater efficiency of the new plant.
APSEB's forecast earnings performance is satisfactory. No State Govern-
ment subsidies in respect of rural electrification losses are projected
for the period and APSEB will achieve a satisfactory level of cash gener-
ation. The average APSEB tariff is projected to increase from 46.0 paise
per kWh in 1982/83 to 55.5 paise per kWh in 1988/89. Net cash generation,
as a percentage of the three-year average of capital expenditure, will
range from about 31% to 45% over the forecast period.
65.     In recent years, average tariffs of APSEB have been rising at a
rate of about 11% per year and industrial tariffs at a rate of about 20%
per year. Domestic and agricultural tariffs, on the other hand, have
actually decreased in real terms. APSEB in recent years has been improv-
ing its tariff structure in line with principles highlighted in a 1975
marginal cost-based tariff study, which is now in the process of being
updated by APSEB staff. This effort is expected to be completed later
this year. Further improvements to tariff structure and practice are
desirable, including such items as enforcement of power factor regula-
tions, adjustment of the ratio between demand and energy charges in the
two-part tariff scheme, proper use of fuel surcharge, increase in tariffs
for irrigation consumers, and adjustment of interstate exchange tariffs.
APSEB's tariff situation was discussed during negotiations, and assurances
were given that the Bank's suggestions for improvements are being taken
into consideration in APSEB-s program of tariff restructuring.



-24-
Project Justification and Risks
66.     The proposed project is justified as part of the least-cost trans-
mission component of the recently-completed long-term development plan
for the Indian power sector.  It provides needed additional transmission
within the Southern Region, and establishes the initial high-voltage
inter-Regional links that will be the first step towards an integration of
separate Regional transmission networks into a national grid. The
analysis of alternatives to the proposed project focusses, in the case of
the intra-Regional transmission lines, on the rate of return of the lines
and the appropriateness of the timing of the investment, by comparing the
costs of the transmission facilities with the cost incurred in case of an
outage. For the two inter-Regional transmission links, costs are examined
in comparison to the investment that would be necessary to provide peaking
capacity in either Region in the absence of the project. The method of
analysis compares the project value of the transmission links and those of
the expansions of thermal capacity that would be equivalent to the
capacity made available by inter-Regional transmission. In addition,
energy cost savings arising from transfers of energy between Regions with
different generating costs are identified. The economic rate of return of
the intra-Regional transmission lines, using the cost of outages avoided
as a proxy for benefits, is about 13%. The lines are justified if con-
structed by any time prior to 1990. With regard to the inter-Regional
links, the alternatives providing sufficient peaking capacity in the
absence of the links would be two 500 MW coal-fired thermal units in the
case of the Southern-Western link and one 500 MW coal-fired thermal unit
in place of the Northern-Western link. In both cases, the transmission
links provide the lower-cost option by a wide margin.  In addition, these
interconnections also make possible off-peak energy transfers between
Regions, with considerable annual cost savings.
67.     Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. A potential risk is the possibility of schedule
slippage which could give rise to delayed commissioning of the power
transmission facilities. Such slippage would be unlikely to have a nega-
tive effect on the continuity of electricity supply, but would result in
delay in the economic benefits of system interconnection. However, NTPC
has developed effective project management systems and has sound
experience in the construction of power stations and transmission lines.
Project implementation will be closely monitored and construction care-
fully coordinated and supervised. Particular attention will be paid to
the ability of manufacturers to meet the required delivery schedules. The
use of experienced consultants by NTPC should also help minimize engineer-
ing and design problems. In addition, project costs are based on similar
works currently in progress under Bank Group-financed projects in India,
so the risks of substantial cost over-runs are small.



-25-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and NTPC, and the Report of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
69.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
NTPC, and execution of bulk supply contracts for sales of electricity from
NTPC's Singrauli and Korba power plants, have been made additional condi-
tions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement).
70.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 2, 1983



I



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                       ;         fe   .   5
INDIA                       myMuct "QoI     WORD (W 7DA     ACS
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Ktl.)                                                                            Ig
TOTAL            3287. 6                                MOST RECENT        LO!                   I
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0        110.0     240.0              261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPIFA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      111.2        152.5     194.4              448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AbD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)   434850.0    547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9          19.7      22.3               17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3        166.6     200.6              158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. 10M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0        307.8     362.8              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.9         42.7      40.2               36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.5         54.2      56.8               59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.6          3.1       3.0                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8          2.3       2.1                2.0                       2.3
URBAN                               2.5          3.3       3.3                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.7         40.0      35.6               29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.8         16.7      13.6               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9          2.7       2.4                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0       3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0      22.6               19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           98.0        102.0      99.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.6         90.4      88.8/c             97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.6         49.7      48.4/c             56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIKAL AND PULSE        17.2         14.8      13.1/i             20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.2         20.7      17.4               10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2          48.1      51.8               57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           165.0        139.0     123.4               89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPPULATION)
TOTAL                           '               17.0      33.0               32.9                     32.0
URBAN                                ..         60.0      83.0               70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                ..          6.0      20.0               22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         18.0      20.0               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                ..         85.0      87.0               72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..          1.0       2.0                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4850.4       4889.0    3630.6             3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1               4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2178.7       1612.9    1311.0/e           1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                                ..           ..     362.3/i            301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..           ..   10432.8/e           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                               5.2          5.6       4.8
RURAL                               5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8
URBAN                               2.6          2.8
RURAL                               2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                .,
URBAN                                             * -       * 
RURAL



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  jb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         73.0      78.0/c             97.4                      96.2
MALE                  80.0        90.0       92.0/Z            101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                40.0        56.0       63.0/i             87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0         26.0      27.0/c             53.0                      37.6
MALE                  30.0        36.0       36.0/i             63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0        15.0       17.0/1             41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0           1.0        0.7/f             1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.1         41.5      51.8/c             37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                          16.0         20.9         ..              20.2                     25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.4      36.0               52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.6          1.1       1.3/c              1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.9         21.5      33.6               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          0.0       1.0                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPIULATION                 10.6         16.0      19.8               16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1           4.1       3.7                3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   30.7         32.5      31.8               29.5                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0         74.0      69.3               70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0      13.2               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0      39.2               40.0                      38.5
MALE                                 57.0         52.4      51.8               51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                               27.3         26.9      25.9               23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.1        1.1                1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/     22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.97j    49.4/?f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.7Th     7.0/|.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2t    16.2/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     132.0              133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                ..           .-     114.0              111.1                    155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 ..                    178.2
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.3               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.7               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  /e 1976;  /f 1975; /I 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
lfFINITlOfff OF SOCUIL INDIfCifORl
Nofts.:  Although the dais ate drawn free.. soures geermi1yt.jdged the -sot stho,ltattc and rl1iable  it  f-old also hr noted that they  ay not he  etee-
nationaly -ospafahle heanaue of the lark of etsodedingd  sf initlona sr  no-cepte used by diE tenan  -ouneire In  oleto   the date.  PIe data  r., 00c-
reless, ant al so deecrihe erdere nf megnitude, fodleate  "eeds,. ad oherst.rie aeticmjor differences bet..e. countrie..
,he      .....oc  groupa ace (1) the  - ose cauor  group at rho sbjracccacnyoo.d 12) aca'rI,e?  b   ocohta  higher -n-rge Iorc.- tha  I'll "I'llr  grop
of the sobj jt conty(sop  f. or "High tocome   oil toporere'. group oboe  "fiiddle Ico_ Nortb A rics soId Middir fot  tea:house b_cocu  of unroceer
socl-cutors  affcitio).In the reercc  oop dora the  -re ..e ore papolor an AIghed arfrhesl    _eono fcc ooh od ,ct    n   boe_ clf whe
_aJorIty of the I...ntlee too  group has deto for chat  idiatr,           lna  tfce          . Ioec .g.o r -tiet ano9 the indicasuec drPyneda ccteuaisiiyo  data
eel Is eon ,oifccr, aation east be ecernisd iI rlsofog9 a                Irgr f ocr indIcato  a  soother.  fh-oe arP.eror  ar  Iay cefa  Ia Ie _arin  chl     oeo
uoe            etirna   at   time aeog the  -outry ond -ofreeeb grou-ps.
AREtA (thousan d onno.)                                                                         Parlostan  en Ocoiasi nd - tutol, ara.  n  rrl - Population(otl
Totol - Teact sorfoa  are  nompeitg laud ore and iclond mce   1979 dana,                        union  o.dcoa)di,tueI by choi  reprne nnunted           r of h.oIpinal beds
Agrinultocl      uiaoo   gricl1tura1l aea aced lreparorily or peanacrcly                         _noio.ble  in publfa ad pciuulc asc. endan  nyeid lrdboPitn1 ruder-
for crp. posue.  _arht ad bitabro nardans or to Ile folilo; 1879 dora.                        ohbilitacecere    oniooaerttlhor   eoca                               efted
by an leat oar plycIaito.  Eit,abl-hbeont  prndlgplcipaipp11   _s-
isp pg iatnn  71$)-  0  Par -uyitaea  oar  on Icrect narkra psi-n, ao1-                     dIicrbr   o   aloe.ba   eptb.Icceec  iclu~de healt
oulatad by u      aceetnratd us World Boak utlue (1978-It b.eio); 1960,                         ao   roa   eneannprunnl   rfe    hyphyut Oar (nor hI,
i971. and 1I.. data                                                                             mdical .s..oc.  or-,el donl, eta.  obih offer ir-petien   oacso
dacloc aod pracfda a lintred  range cf ceddelfcllno.Prsnre
cENERGt CoSiTtpION PIER hA11A - uuAl ..     cueciI       f   -oalriol e-org  (anal                 tlo1 ycpnrp...  .orbon bnpiceli inlude atOne priainapog..orl  bclae
and litgite, poneleom., -aarlg_o and hyr-   nfa   n  gahra   lcd                                        elhstoalclorurlhonpl-ol  co  ed(o  or ianrc
triiatny  in I.ilnor...s otao...   oa-tet pa  capita; 1961, 1971, and 1979                      cenr.tnlied   onni   r  nldronyodraea
dote.                                                                                          dmicui_n_  nec1 HasPitl Bed - T-ru  cuter of ndi-iun-n  tee   dncoe
from b_nyiceIt diolidd by tbe tonec of hede.
POPULATION ADc VITAL. StTATITICS
Total Ppolottic..  Kid-Yeer (thcocoa.) - As of Joly 1; intl. 19701..ad 19800                aeiletN
datae.                                                                                      An..r.Sge    lic   nO 2~ Iotecdh .ooa  o          1aued)- tant .uha, and rurl1-
ImbuePelna(oce  of ecal- aii  of urban to tend1 popuAnh... buhold  . iolts o  o  rou PI  ediotd Io tote  nharr lining qaurter
dtffrc_nn  urinitic o  nrooeuey affet am rhility If data                                      cod their noia mel.- A bo-dra o  lodter nay orny nor be lacldcd in
aneanorio  1916. 191., aed 1980 dana.                                                         the b-eohld gI    ttitclropae
Population Projc -loo                                                                         barge.ohto -peroens per             .o -tona, oro,ad rueld-  -aotgt  o
PnpouIot  noI year lied - Cnetpopolaleepoatco   c  boda  1980                                 her~ of pcc   Ipmco  It all oran  ad rua -           cuod  ee-ceo
Proj-teto   paramter   7r ,   ralt   oe IInprIte f three lenl   IutI-_occp-d porce.
leg life enpecctnop ac birtb iII Pe...ilg otnI. ......y'npa r   pt I ntonei,.            hAconatiE flrceialoy (porat 01 d-rILai   - ttal  ora.  n  rcl -.
Meno, aed teal  itreu can    btabilitgaet 77.9 yearn.  The pora-                           C-ennI'lctIcut daelegI     tblatlcy  'I lInI',     onnt   npato-.bo.
meters for feacoIllicyrahet   orle   een               ...us sine docileer in               of canal, uc-ac. a    ea   -ol coepeacinly.
fmt iliny acaredior no tacoma 1-1e  ad Post- fasily planningptfoac
tact can..tep ii then anuinned ear of chinei. nIecsbintlio-  If carna1ly              nUnTIjLtN
an.d fertility trudi fur projoatico  .porpetr.                                             idjonned Cenoimeat Rtual
inolec   auale-I     rt.....r pycP-iucia  thecs.  9snecothtioe                              Pniula  chel-   cb  male and female-Cro-  t-cl, sane and female
the birhno  it equa  not the death rae, and alto che aesrcuei-nelntofllaaanthe pclmery eIo-                                                        eaotaao  rsetn
mele  accr.Thns Ia    nen  nely af.rc f-iIiivr caca  dec1one to                               prisary e-ho-l-anypntIIIrueal   itlden chitldone anti h-il
choIelcmn   edo   e    era r-p-da-tie  rate.  hebe, each goaaratin                            yeru bun od-uned for fiff ereoctrgbco  petoary  d                    lale;  u
ofnonnrP,_ce  Itteloaci              The ntcouypptae   i1o                                      uttnen   onra   ducation raoltt y Iueo  tno pocace
nutimated -0 Oha booo of tie prcJoanrd cbarnertectaui  of th. poyc1-iorn.                      ieo   coePnpilu O,O bl1c or  b..n. tho  ffiala.l nahoel ace.
to the yer l00e, and the naet  of deofior. of tercitily rate no rnplaae-                   eScendoy tohel - total male aad femalo - Ceupoted at aton; ....ondary
meett land,                                                                                   educaio  regira at le..tI fea  Y-oc  ef uPpro..d yr Imy i                  PIrto;
Yco  utatinec  ponaina In reacted - The yea  abso  tnunienay yauolepoI-den  -rocl  __caco_l  orI oo-e ceo-ingletecet  feep0
aice aill beroabed.                                                                           os..ally of 17 to 17 yeas.f.f.   curuednecaoaae arecll
Pnr_2o_. ho. - aid-poor r.p..   t   par egu-- kilonlec-  (il   raoes0f                      noca...tlularloc Iterau  at. .se...d..Y' - V...et.nu Ilesiul
ntul urea; t1960  1970 aud 1979 data.                                                       inalode te-tn-l , tadourri1, or other Pceerec  hi1th opecucst indep.ed-
Per so. tkn. a cutcl.led - Ceoyctrd as  bhove far' aeiunua  land                              r'tiporn  depanmeatn of .....dary  ltittic.
_ouIy;I 1860,f 1971 sa  1979 data.                                                          Pcpnl-tnah-bellti  - P'i_any.             bdn toocar- TacltI ncdeacneota1led in
aec tale  hoe n_cotore (cercant) - Cibld-te  (n-to pera,....       yog   (I                  primacy and coa-ad-y tenets dnieid ty _ac.rc  of trachar  lo eta
64 yraro), and recited lb5 Year  aed eucrl as p-r-tag-o of sd-fr-  eP.,-                      croecuporiog le..ls.
...o 91. 080,an.      18. daa                                                           bidl lierc        _rr  (Perceet) - Litrn-todultc  flble cc read aed erae)
Perulatin Irositnate Ipcean) -teno   A-1dna    -thi rates of cute1 nod-                etapsereneag  uf   -1to  aduI  yapulani-t o&d 15 yearn an d  Ven.
year populaion for 1895O-6, 1m6t-y. ud197t-en.
Poroltutio iccc  hte (penceon) - aben-.ncal gro-th --tn  at  lanto  Ppa-                    C0gc0e11Ttlh
nnoafe1950-60, cn6o-7n, and isy-sn.                                                  eaeaeeCc  (e  hocr  poolsin - euncofe  corn compise Ict
Crudo cit  note. (perr Ih.o...d A-loe-a  line binthe Per the....d of si-eecor  esncte lea  than eight per....c; -lo.do-  -ntlancro, hbracsetaod
pplne;1910. 1970, atd 1900 data,                                                       oIl icay orhOafe-.
Crude Denh late _(per ib_son) - Aucoal deatba yen cbcocoa d  of end-year                      Radin r-ti-r   pa  hcun  pplai    - All typ-o  e tecolanc,e fo  radio
popolutiot; 1910. i970. udP190t data.                                                         hodtnageoerul public peet -honord  f popuIlation; eclade  on-
treun. It'.  .t _crdu n Ane -hatg   ene,e,,of d-oghnersnnIm-nitl hece In                         Iticreendro...ai__ te roet li_   Id In reorbn_          rItrehea r      a !bdio
bee norma  r-pc-do-ti- pcled itfa ae aerIir .eru  Ptr...   age-s_pecific  fr-                 setn oat in effec; data for recent Year  oaY oa  be canpaa1bi aloe
tII ty rates;  ...atly fn- ear  raoere   ndiog in h9e. 1970, and 1981.                        naaaotr          tlitird 'lc_onig.
Fofin PIannic - Acrrtern.A Macal litoearde)   A Annual nosier of accepcore                     TV Rccloora, (per)neuo   ooalI- TV  ...eiers for 1bredrast no
of birtth-Z-te eldencr  uner 'uPi"' of nainlfacily planning pregran.                          gera  pobic Per nbo..acd peplato; carludee ol Ic_ed TVnetnr
Yoil Plutgce- (pnrcn  of earnedeme)-ernaf  of marrneu                                         Iococrio        d to Y-ur  ehe. r0iucr-tice ef TVoats Ou fi effct
enmee  f chigd-hoeice  (8 15-44 yeor) nbaon  birch-arutcu.l  d_ui_n  ccHeppricuait(rrteoo auoit       hee  the %r-c  aIr-
oil married  eomot   aesroer                                                                  IaItn og'olyonea  Interes  oc-paper' defloied as a pcriodical
pahli-sti- deteed PMtolily  . recording~ becrn  neon   It Is cec-idre-d
Ff01 A0N1 NUTRI1TIOto be 'doily" it It  ppo.rs a.  t l.aci Ocortime  a -eci
Indee of Fod Produanot per Caita 11y1fpl=100  -l.dec If Par capita uncol        Ca Mo Aditteoda-ce rfrnartfEraedntinrbto
Padticooifodcmudne.Prdcutirncalu1droaeed and fend und                                        ti~lkecouold donnac the year. incladta  odnlient to delvo-Iccroa
in enIelenda  Y'a  bais   Cemdicta route Prinory goods (a.g. ougaro...                        ard nubile cults.
icuteod ad aufor) nhc1 ore ediblred aoa_ctiacotfienro (eng. ..ff..e ad
teaur  ralded.  8Agrefaee clodocio IIe   -    -t occeery Inbaurd or                  ILdABO  FORCE
natonl aarge ycodocer price coiehn; i9t1-65, m970, and 1980 data.                     Tonal Labor force (theo-aJd)   E'tccenlcai1Y actionP petter. ilolding
Poe t"Pino r"c'ly, of cire   prete   euru                   - Camycted free                      ...ed forces andb  --eoy~lyd ho  era mmcc Icuseies,        tores-cc.
eerpeentre  let food- uplten  -ailubln ne country pe P"  "Pita                      c rieg pplst_e of all aics.  Defieiti..uIarreuootlu
perlay   cA-lblahi  nupl-noyi_e demeti  pred-cto."  inpornles                               oaI..Iute  196n, 1970 and 1981 deta
eaera,ad abenOa In eeok.N-a  ouPplire  eecImdc utnul fodneed e d,                        Feeblareret  - FPeale tah   for_- -t pro acn0  at coco1 1ab-ntea
"P..iie  use..d In tied p--ocaulo, ad l1-... It di-triboi-on    R.,,iii-                      Ari-o-ltor  (~recece) - Lb-e fer-  Icfruq  frtr,hon                     n
me te  ar  osimaedby PiG booed ec tphytleiriol aes  o  cordl ..ci-                        filu tprotg   ftclibefre;  9O   197   Id 198  ica
isty an     ih  ...nadidncrecio eta  t                lprea. bdy _cigct~, age                loay(rtetI-lb-a force uc acic   ...nt-utioa, onfotnctrinf
end sea diuti_butiec If pepulaion, aed aie   10 plere  far 000cr  c                             ana eleatni-nt, Iooad0000crotone of local lalebfrce
household led; t961-tS   970 urd 197dita.                                                i9nh0, 19701I oi1981 dan.
eacrIto pueryofertIe  o oprr dayf - pre-ic  --nnte If Per capita                          PatcptinRt  pacn       caa. ala, and fcmaie     octiano
5.                      n~~~~~~et ..,Pply at food ynr day. fle  supplya  feud In defiond an obc . h-                  naciriny Iut--  ar  -uW-cd at,canal  malr. cod lesle laer- fore 
qnireen     ifo ll   cootrin-etalioted ty fSDh pr-ide fee eioinoa                             P'necur  c   atl oIadfeue  oolto  of otl m"r ra~peo.ttce ly1;
ai1=ace  of hI graa of coci  roe1   pee day .cd di rum   ot anIma  ud                        1911, 197'0. ou-1980 d-u   Thre  are1 Inondl. ceLOt        . prltputoeee
Pue pretein. ef ohich 10 grunaoodh  aau  poen   Tneenod                                       rfneaf-acnuuroftepupltio   ed1ccdamed
ardoarn Ieooetbac eth.ncIf  7gr         o tlenni prociton.dl23 Sam f                          feorotiso..cuare fcoteacoru
acima1 Protein a, an      , unngafe  eb le eacd, prepene.d by P00 Ir at,e Third                      D..oat lreoeeymat  -  ol f ypcpl-eie order 15  nd 65 ua  ..or
acrid Peed locce; 19b1-t5, 1970 aed 1977 dar.                                                 no ebe netl.  labor for...e
yetranino P..n... .ouyc,lpram! uimal_and p,Ine - Pretet   -opyl  nO feed de-
reed fton  -ensot  and polaro  utibElc  poc day, mu-IS, 1970 aed 1977 iot.               ICcfzct msTRooTION
Child (--n 1-47 Decth hate (err a-uc..ed) - Annual dceehn per cbeo....d ie                    Pre-ea c of Pri-ete lhaoc  (bach ic na-  and k-oI) - Recnced ty ruchnat
age gtaup i-4 yeaca, no ahildean Ji thic ago ernup, for mas dene1npiog aeon                   I ceccatc  liah-c  on .ec. c. pII     ent1potsn - nd Peacret 4tyern
ni_o dotu derinod ftem lifo cables; 1910, 1979 ard 1980 data.                                 of hacuebeida.
~AimTne                                                                                       POVtTIlY TARaGfy ilJPS
ilf "tea  unyor0 b (ream)  A- dere coaler of peace of lire rmleg                           The fclnoea  rococr   ay  praeareacrec  pcrp  eec
uttnb1H        l7udl198odaaof  bndh  lneprsdlthooIdesico
laat  arloc19~1 e 0c  (ear nbco-ad( - Aenoal de-cha of iefao-u-drr-     yer               tEni-ucd disloco PuaranyI Ireeleer  1111 P e, cyica13 - or.b anad renal1
of agoer etehu..uod line hiltah; i960. 1970 ard i9lt dana.                                    Pholr  cnec  aeom  ledi  hnmce   ee   ra Shc     il
ircena npegonr  reeenof  aelorcc  - P      toa,uban, ud rore  -  u-                      eti  alpudeoucte diet pla  ea-            ca  nc-oo      -eglorce Oa non
o.tte Iah an that fran Pietcaced bareholes, npiegs, and sue ttar  cell) a                      on   eatrparyicn   ealeoettio                              rg   e   apc
peracocufe  of cteir nepeaninevpepalctoec                 b.I or ohacucrapuino                Pero    icm-f ehacooctry.  Urban len1 nodcia  fre  tecoa
futin or  -tadr...t located ou  care thiu 20 lOt mec   ft..abe-e coy be                   lea1 eich adjoo--   for, nighareu-tf lining  Ic arearna
rnuaeobe aces  nold Iimply rheothnb  b-eooife  c  enerIf tie h-anhuid                   anrrl-Preco  pplto    ohcadlcrl  abev                        ae"e     ol
do cot bane1 cescen  a atoProPocciocue  eart of the day  no f-ochnon the                      po
hares no ternlinbi(prrno-ooole)-tci   eo, aud rurl 
nba celrtauad dinpc-a, -cict              nontcerer   f  tsoncc
-ud enue-nao  by  --bo-ton   ayat-m  or ahr            F ofPit ptiai-s and abi-
Popuou-le re P.   plao   - PoPyc-iaci  dmolded by nosier of pphfai eyoc-                                                           Eacoonic urd Social Daco It-cio
otien qooliftod free a~ -diesichol at ufoecicy 1_01.                                                                        to___c  _naynIa and Peajea lee  Oeae-
Peco  nctro   lrna teu-   doaatcilnidri by  ..hr oi.fp yr...ctnie                                                                               lay 1980
c-rcfaaetd-uneooa          Ieisoeaus, Ileccaca  eurecan



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRO(DUCT IN 1981/82 -                                                      ANNUAL RATE CF GROWTH (%, constant prices) -
US$ Bln .     x                 1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices           165.38    100.0                         3.7              3.6               3.6              2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving           37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08     -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force i/          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln..           %             Mil.        %                 US$      % of National Average
Agriculture                     39.8              39.6            180.6     70.7                220            56
Industry                        25.2              25.1            32.2      12.6                783           199
Services                        35.5              35.3             42.6     16.7                833           211
Total/Average                  100.5             100.0            255.4    100.0                394           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government            e/                          Central Government
Rs.Bln.         %  of  GDP                                   Rs. Bl- .        %  of  GDP
1981/82     1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                        1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                   285.77        19.4         19.1                               149.2E      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures               280.34        19.0         18.2                               155.07      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              5.43         0.4          0.9                                -5.75      -0.4        -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/            116.91         7.9          7.8                                83.66       5.7         5.5
External Assistance (net) d/        16.45         1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982               February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5    615.5                            711.7
Sank Credit to Government(net)    54.6         69.2      77.6     76.4      94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4    292.2                         353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2        156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4    422.2                           487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                             April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                      27.4       30.3     34.6      36.5      41.2      44.1     43.3      42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(i970/71 = 100)                 100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3               281.7              ; s287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7       -1.1       2.1       5.2      -        17.1      18.2       9.3            10.0               1  2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0          6.3      11.1      16.3     16.0      25.6      29.6      19.1            22.7 &/          I   21.0
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  20.5         22.7      20.7      12.6     20.3      21.5      17.0     18.7             20.9 g/               15.5 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market nrices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/ Percentage change from end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/  Percentage change from  end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
,I         j/                                                               q
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                1979/80  1980/81  1981/82   1982/83                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 197BJ79-1981/82)
(US5$ Mim.)                                                                                                            1US$ HMl.    %
Exports of Goods a/                 7,948     8,504    8,511       8,800                 Engineering Goods                 901       11
Imports of Goods q/               -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                    Tea                                457        6
Trade balance                      -3,435   -7,615    -6,742   -6,001                    Gems                              759       10
NFS (net)                           1,042      1,365     1,120     1,088                 Clothing                          556        7
Leather & Leather Products    470            6
Resource Balance                   -2,393    -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                    Jute Manufactures                 279        4
Iron Ore                          352        4
Interest Income (net) k/              287       600        212      -128                 Cotton Textiles                   319        4
Net Transfers  1/                   1,852     2,771      1,577     1,668                 Sugar                             104        1
Others                          3,789       47
Balance on Current Account            -254   -2,879   -3,833    -3,373
Official Aid                                                                            Total                            7,986      100
Gross Disbursements                 1,218      1,629     1,821     1,933                 EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                        1,894     2,338      2,475     2,569
US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                 -        1,035       690     1,980                 Outstanding and Disbursed                   18.3
All Other Items  o/                  -740       -130   -1,075       -358                 Undisbursed                                  8.5
Outstanding, including                      26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)             -224        345    2,397       -182                   Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204         6,859      4,462     4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/          7,204     6,532      3,498     1,703                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 j/  n/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) q/              4,046     6,657     5,570      4,686                                                           US$ million
IBRD          IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed             1,357          6,688
Undisbursed                           1,896          4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                         3,253        10,958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971                US$1.00 - Rs 7.50                          Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 = USS0.13333                                                     Rs 1.00 = US$O00997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:           US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = USS0.137376
After end-June 1972                    :      Flcating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981           :       DSS1.00 = Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 = USS0.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982            :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = US$0.104
jl  Estimated.
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
IMF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
I/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
o/ Includes comsercial borrowing.
p/  Excluding gold.
g/  Net of crude petroleum exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 26
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 21
46 Loans/                                              1,568.0          -
76 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        4,364.4            _
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0          11.87
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -           83.0          13.99
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -           27.7           6.84
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -           16.4           0.31
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply            -           40.0           8.55
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -          105.0           3.59
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                 -          150.0          10.17
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.          -            4.0           0.98
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           5.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            52.44
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                              40.0          -             1.31
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0          -            17.08
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                80.0          -             3.68
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          _             5.69
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          14.82
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           4.01
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -          150.0           9.62
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0         11.60
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             4.68
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           1.57
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0          10.40
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           4.81
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           6.34
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension            -           13.0           1.37
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                     -           58.0           0.24
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                     78.5          -             3.86
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          64.61
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -           87.0           8.30
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                        8.0          6.19



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 6
US$ mililion
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0                         4.66
1549-IN     1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0           -            16.68
788-IN     1978     Karrnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6           57.00
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                    -          200.0          49.63
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0           11.56
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -           85.0           29.91
815-IN    1978      Anidhra Pradesh Fisheries              -            17.5          10.53
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0           10.55
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0          -             28.48
824-IN     1978     National Dairy                         -          150.0           87.61
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -          196.0         170.17
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                     -          111.0            0.10
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0           63.60
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -           38.0            9.88
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -           27.0           20.30
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -              25.0            9.45
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0            6.07
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0          -             50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -          200.0           52.90
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0           68.92
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                -           48.0          17.49
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -          175.0           26.76
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -           23.0            9.77
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -          210.0          99.51
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry              -           37.0          18.45
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0           18.29
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -            46.0          39.48
1003-IN     1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -           32.0           25.95
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -           18.0            3.75
1011-IN     1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                  -           175.0        132.77
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -            22.0          18.95
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0         221.29
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -            10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -           56.0          30.35
1034-IN     1980     Karnataka Sericulture                  -           54.0          44.68
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -           80.0           64.42
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0           -            15.29



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0                         = 25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0         179.32
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -            25.30
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0          -           42.02
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0          28.17
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          77.59
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0          29.88
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         132.36
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         210.79
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0          53.85
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0         344.72
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0          21.75
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          25.25
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          36.27
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0         109.46
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         366.87
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         206.58
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -            81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          26.86
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          23.37
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -           124.82
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                             190.0          -           190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                               -          160.0          23.34
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -            6.0           5.80
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           181.91
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0          48.41
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          71.45
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and                                  -
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.70
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0         31.00
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0         123.26
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -           163.05
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -          197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         200.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
2241-IN    1983       South Bassein Gas Development*    222.3              -           222.30
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II*                  -          150.0          150.00
1332-IN    1983       U.P. Public Tubewells II*              -           101.0         101.00
Total                                      4,783.1    11,446.6
of which has been repaid                1,211.8         120.4
Total now outstanding                      3,571.3    11,326.2
Amount Sold                      133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8            -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/          3,571.3    11,326.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)            1,854.3      4,052.3
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their US dollar
equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative dis-
bursements converted to their US dollar equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate (1 SDR = US$1.07867) in effect on March 31, 1983.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 26
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8         -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              16.3         -       16.3
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.5         -        8.5
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         208.3       12.1    220.4
Less:   Sold                           53.0        3.2     56.2
Repaid                        28.3         -       28.3
Cancelled                     15.9        1.4      17.3
Now Held                     111.1        7.5    118.6
Undisbursed                   93.1        0.2      93.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1983 total US$1,008 million, representing an increase
of about 17% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1983, is US$5,907 million.
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051  Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 has been completed and was closed on March 31, 1983. Dis-
bursements are expected to be completed by the end of April 1983.
Loan 1511 is nearly complete and was also scheduled to close on
March 31, 1983. Although project implementation has been satisfactory, a
small number of sub-projects remain unfinished.  Following a detailed review
of the project by a Bank mission in April, a short extension of the closing
date will be made to allow completion of these sub-projects and full disbur-
sement of the loan proceeds.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Following completion of 37 fertilizer sub-projects, Credit 598 was
closed on December 31, 1982. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
the end of April 1983.  About US$3 million in the credit account are expected
to be cancelled.
Credit 1125 is proceeding generally satisfactorily. Procurement of
all critical items is on schedule. The need to undertake unexpected piling
and foundation work identified by detailed soil surveys delayed somewhat the
start of major civil works. This has now been completed, and erection of the
ammonia and urea plants is scheduled to begin in April-May 1983.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress, with construction about to commence. Prepara-
tion work and investment approvals for the energy efficiency and pollution
control components are underway.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page   of 26
Ln. No. 2205  Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project; US$165.5 million loan of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: March 31, 1986
Ln. No. 2241  South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project; US$222.3 million
loan of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The Bombay High Project is progressing well. All platforms and
subsea pipelines have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached
its targetted production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and Is
presently producing 250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Initial activities under the Krishna-Godavari Project are about four
months behind schedule due to longer than anticipated testing and completion
time for on-shore wells, lack of adequate number of geophysicists for
processing the seismic data, and delay in initiating procurement actions.
These problems have been discussed in depth with ONGC, and they are in the
process of undertaking steps to correct the situation.
The South Bassein Gas Project is designed to assist India to increase
her gas production capability through the installation of offshore platforms
for drilling, processing, and gas flaring, and the laying of a subsea
pipeline to Gujarat State and the fertilizer plant at Hazira.  Initial
procurement activities are underway.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976- Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
Cr. No. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
Cr. No. 1053  US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting.of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Company-s station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
All these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satis-
factorily. Construction works for the Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The first unit at the
Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in February 1982, the second
unit in October 1982, and the third in March 1983. The first unit at the
Korba station was also commissioned in March 1983. In the Third Trombay
project, procurement is complete and the generator is expected to be commis-
sioned in April/May 1983. Tata Electric Company's financial performance in
1982, and projections through 1985, are satisfactory. Cost overruns, caused
by design modifications, price increases in materials, and increases in
customs duties, will be met by the Government of India.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
These projects are progressing satisfactorily with no major problems.
Procurement of materials and equipment is on schedule, and disbursements are
keeping pace with appraisal estimates. Detailed plans for the new Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) training institute to be established in



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26
Hyderabad are well advanced. REC's financial performance continues to be
satisfactory. In the near future, REC's major thrust under both projects
will be on improving consumer connection performance, which is lagging con-
siderably behind projections. REC is in the process of reassessing the
annual work programs of the State Electricity Boards, including an analysis
of the reasons for the poor connection performance, the setting of realistic
new goals, and the introduction of measures to improve the situation.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1313 has been successfully concluded and was closed on March 31,
1983. Disbursements are expected to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Loan 1592 and Credit 1112 are both progressing satisfactorily and
there are no major problems. Initial delays in Loan 1592 as a result of late
procurement caused by a strike have been offset by accelerated implementation
during 1982. All bidding under Credit 1112 is now complete and civil works
are underway. Institutional improvements under all projects have been
achieved and the financial position of the Posts & Telegraph Department
remains sound.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2210 Second Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project;
Cr. No. 1299 US$200 million loan and US$200 million credit of December 23,
1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983; Closing Date:
September 30, 1987
These projects are designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
re-manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The physical execution of
Credit 844 continues to make good progress. Procurement of all critical
equipment is complete and civil works are well advanced. Commitments under
the project total nearly 97% of the Credit amount. Initial activities for
the second project are underway. The Indian Railways- financial and traffic
performance continued its significant improvement in FY1982/83, and this is
expected to be sustained in FY1983/84.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered. Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with about 75%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been considerable recent improvement in the Calcutta
project, including definite progress at the policy level in response to IDA-s
15-point action program to improve project implementation, which was
presented to the project authorities in October 1982. All 75 new tramcars
financed under the project have been delivered, an additional 60 should be
renovated and in service by December 1983, and the operating performance of
the tram company has improved substantially over the last six months.
Although the operating performance of the bus corporation remains unsatisfac-
tory, the recent appointment of three new senior staff members to the cor-
poration's management and a new Chairman of the Board is expected to improve
operations, and there are now over 500 new buses in service.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta's
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception of the
sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing delays in
land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively pursuing
the resolution of these court cases and has identified alternative sites to
be used so that the sites and services works can be finished by the project
closing date. The financial performance of the Pallavan Transport Corpora-
tion (PTC), the project implementing agency, is unsatisfactory. It is not
generating funds sufficient to meet its financial targets. An action plan to
cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and raise revenues has recently
been formulated and, subject to the agreement of GOTN, will enable PTC to
achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain them thereafter.
Progress under Credit 1185 is mixed. Procedures to improve cost
recovery have not been introduced as agreed, studies on institutional
strengthening of the project agencies have not begun, and the project
authority suffers from a serious lack of staff with proper management exper-
tise. However, there has been considerable improvement recently in land
acquisition for slum upgrading, where completed works have benefitted nearly
6,700 households. Procurement is proceeding well and all physical works are
expected to be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Following the completion of physical works, the project was closed
on December 31, 1982. Institutional and financial performance under the
project were unsatisfactory, and several of the implementing agencies were
unable to achieve the financial performance targets which had been agreed
with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26
Cr. No. 1280 Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$72 million credit
of November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 8, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Recent progress under Credit 842 has been encouraging. Preparation
of contract documents and drawings for the water supply component is well
advanced. For the 137 sewerage sub-projects, all tender documents have been
completed and construction is well underway, although there have been serious
delays on the two major sewerage treatment plants due to land acquisition
difficulties. Cost overruns are expected and IDA has requested the project
authorities to prepare detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
these. The financial performance of the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
Department continues to be satisfactory, and all financial conditions under
the project are being met.
The closing date of Credit 848 has been extended one year as a result
of initial procurement delays. Physical implementation of the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily, and all works are expected to be finished by the
extended completion date of December 1983. The quality of construction work
is excellent, and the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board is proving to be
an effective implementing agency. However, there continue to be significant
problems with financial and operational performance, which must be improved
considerably if agreed targets under the project are to be met. IDA has
brought this to the attention of the project authorities repeatedly, and
plans to concentrate its supervision efforts for the duration of the project
on improving the financial and operational aspects of implementation.
Credit 899 is proceeding reasonably well. It has now entered the
full construction stage, and work is satisfactory. Disbursements are in line
with the appraisal estimates. The level of tariffs is adequate to achieve
the financial performance targets under the project. The Government of
Maharashtra is preparing detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
the anticipated cost increases which have occurred as a result of delayed
start of construction and retendering on one major water supply facility.
Attention now needs to be devoted to the resolution of the staffing difficul-
ties in the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board, particularly the
lack of financial staff to properly administer their financial operations.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes have
been nearly finalized. Progress in the project has been hampered by the
Government of Rajasthan (GOR) fund allocations running at between 507%-60%
of annual requirements. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the construc-
tion of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the city of
Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from the
Rajasthan Canal instead. A feasibility report has been completed. GOR has
decided on the alternative Rajasthan Canal source, which will be funded
without Bank assistance.
Initial work under Credit 1280 is proceeding well. The design team
has been established and detailed design of all sub-projects is on schedule.
The bid documents for civil works in Ahmedabad, one of the project cities,
have been approved and will be issued shortly. Work is now concentrating on
preparation of bids for materials procurement.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closiln Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third WiLxdow) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31-, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 2, 1981 ;Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Ma jor Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
Cr. No. 1269  credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:  December 1, 1982
Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1289  Subernarekha Irrigation Project; US$127 million credit of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: January 10, 1983; Closing
Date: April 30, 1987.
Cr. No. 1319  Haryana II Irrigation Project; US$150 million credit of
February 23, 1983; Effective Date: Expected May 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Following unsatisfactory early project progress, Loan 1251 was refor-
mulated in May 1980, at which time project completion was planned for Decem-
ber 1984. On the basis of improved implementation performance under the
reformulated program, a one-year extension of the closing date is now under
consideration.
Implementation of Maharashtra I has been unbalanced, with emphasis on
major works. As of March 31, 1983, the original closing date, the large
construction components were about 80% complete, but there were major short-
falls in the minor irrigation and CAD works. Over recent months there has
been some improvement in implementation, with the provision of adequate
budget resources and staff, and the preparation of detailed work programs for
completion of the works. Therefore, a one-year extension of the closing date
is being considered to allow completion of all project components and hence
full development of the irrigation potential of the area.
As a result of cost overruns, the Periyar Vaigai Project was reformu-
lated in 1981, at which time completion was planned for March 1984. Accord-
ingly, the closing date has been extended by one year to March 31, 1984.
Recent implementation progress has been encouraging, particularly in the
construction of field channels. The project could profit still further,
however, from improved coordination among the various Government of Tamil
Nadu agencies responsible for project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26
The Karnataka Project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
Although the Gujarat Medium Project is 30% behind schedule on
average, there has been considerable recent improvement. There is no longer
a shortage of field staff, construction standards have improved, and there
has been substantial progress in finalizing the designs of the distribution
systems. Disbursements, at 50% of the SAR target, are expected to improve
following the introduction of steps designed to reduce Ineligible expendi-
tures. The GOG is currently preparing detailed implementation schedules to
ensure completion of the 23 sub-projects by June 1984.
The Gujarat II Project has also demonstrated recent signs of improve-
ment. Staffing problems, which had been a cause of serious delays, have now
been resolved. The quality of construction work has improved, design
problems have been corrected, and the Water and Land Management Institute is
contributing significantly to the training of Irrigation Department staff.
Although the project remains considerably behind schedule and will face cost
overruns, all components continue to be economically and financially viable.
The COG is now preparing detailed implementation schedules for the completion
of project works which will form the basis for future monitoring.
Shortages of cement and inadequate provision of budgetary resources
continue to delay implementation of the Punjab Project. In addition, there
are cost overruns in the canal and watercourse lining components of about 157%
and 40%, respectively; and the study of water charges, due in August 1981,
remains incomplete. The Government of Punjab has repeatedly been requested
by Bank supervision missions to address these issues urgently.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project is considerably behind
schedule. The sub-project appraisal process has been overly slow. While
there are 12 sub-projects tiow under implementation, approximately 20-25 are
needed to assure expected project benefits and full disbursement of the
credit proceeds. Moreover, the works are unbalanced in favor of construction
of dams rather than conveyance systems. Several significant procurement
contracts are scheduled to be awarded in April 1983, which is expected to
bring about accelerated project implementation.
There has been significant recent progrss in the MP Major Project.
Procurement procedures have been streamlined, several major ICB and LCB
contracts are expected to be awarded in March-April 1983, and design work for
the canal structures is progressing well. The GOMP's planned intensification
of project activities during the current December 1982-June 1983, and the
1983/84 construction seasons, should be adequate to offset initial start-up
delays. Attention can now be devoted to completion of the resettlement plan
for persons to be displaced by project reservoirs, and to initiation of the
minor project components, such as roads, research stations, and the estab-
lishment of drainage and hydrometeorological networks.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26
Credit 1289 supports an irrigation and industrial/water supply
program on 255,000 ha in the States of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal.
Credit 1319 continues the Government of Haryana's modernization program
through the lining of irrigation channels and the provision of supplementary
water from augmentation tubewells. Early project activities are proceeding
as scheduled.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
Th project is designed to finance the construction of 120-160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. The Government of
Karnataka has proposed a reduction to 87 in the number of schemes to be
completd. Project preparation has been slow due to serious staffing vacan-
cies and the overloading of senior project staff with non-project respon-
sibilities. Design work is seriously behind schedule and construction has
not yet begun at the dam sites.  The Government of Karnataka has been asked
to prepare a program to complete the scheduled works within the agreed
project period, together with a staffing and budget plan, by the end of
October 1982.
Credit No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million
credit of May 12, 1980; Effective Date:  June 27, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Credit No. 1332  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells II Project; US$101 credit
of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The first project has been successfully completed within the original
closing date.  In fact an additional 70 tubewells above the 500 originally
plannned at appraisal were constructed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983.
Initial activities are underway for Credit 1332, which provides for
the installation of 2200 new tubewell systems, and the upgrading of 750
existing tubewell systems, based on the modernized design which was success-
fully proven in the first project.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala_Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date:_August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Proiect; US$28 million credit
of_May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22,_1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of_May 7, 1981; Effective_Date: July_22,_1981;_Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7,_1981; Effective_Date: July 22, 1981;_Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219  Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of_May 5, 1982; Effective Date: July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging, both
in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields.
In Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, significant gains have been made
under the projects.
There has been considerable improvement in the West Bengal Project
over the past year. Staffing problems have been resolved, and civil works
have started. Attention now needs to be devoted to improvement in fieldwork,
which is weak due to insufficient supervision of extension workers and poor
generation of agricultural recommendations.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26
In Rajasthan, too, significant early gains were achieved following
the establishment of a well organized and stable extension service. Although
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven, the basic extension system is
well established.
Implementation of the Assam Project is slow due in part to unsettled
conditions in the State. Insufficient supervision contributes, inter alia,
to lack of coordination among various implementing agencies, staff vacancies,
and poor understanding of the AEOs appropriate role in the extension sys-
tem--all of which result in ineffective field work.
Implementation of the Bihar Project is unsatisfactory. Despite the
decision of the Government of Bihar (GOB) one year ago to commit adequate
budget funds and appoint key staff, there has been no progress to date.
Staff vacancies remain, field extension continues to be weak, and civil works
have not yet started.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been estab-
lished and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension recommen-
dations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies. The Directorate of
Extension in the Central Government s Department of Agriculture needs
strengthening.
In Kerala, following the successful introduction of the T&V system
in three Districts, the project was extended to the entire State in December
1982. The recruitment of the additional staff should be completed by April
1983, after which project implementation is expected to accelerate conr-
siderably.
In Maharashtra, project implementation is ahead of schedule. The
basic infrastructure of the revised extension service is well established.
Field workers are visiting farmers regularly and their recommendations are
being widely accepted.
The Madhya Pradesh II Project remains behind schedule due to delayed
sanctioning of budget resources during the first two project years. There
has recently been considerable improvement in implementation which is
expected to continue.
Implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Project has been hampered during
its first year by vacancies in senior staff positions caused by the decision
of the newly elected State Government to retire all staff over 55 years of
age. Promotion boards are now meeting to choose staff for the vacant posi-
tions. Field activities have been ongoing for about six months and are
generally satisfactory, although an improved orientation program would be of
benefit to staff at all levels. Civil works and procurement activities are
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continues satisfactorily. Implementation of the
smallholder component, the project's largest, continues to gain momentum with
a 36% increase in plantings in 1982/83. One crumb rubber factory of the nine
included in the project is in operation and a further two should be commis-
sioned in late 1983. The cashewnut component is completed.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
Cr. No. 1209 US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
1982; Effective Date: May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDCs lending program to farmers. The project is
proceeding well, with disbursements ahead of schedule. In July 1982, ARDC
and ACD/RBI were successfully merged into the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (NABARD). The merger was carried out efficiently,
permitting operations to continue uninterrupted. The loan recovery perfor-
mance of the State Land Development Banks during 1981/82 was weak. NABARD
has introduced rehabilitation programs and management studies designed to
improve loan recovery and the overall performance of the participating banks.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project has made significant progress over the last six months.
Contact has improved with the State agricultural universities, where there is
considerable enthusiasm for NARP objectives. Implementation of sub-projects
in Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu is proceeding on schedule. The basic
research projects, although satisfactory thus far, need to focus their atten-
tion on local needs and probler-oriented multi-disciplinary research.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project was revised in May 1982 to provide additional bag storage
capacity in lieu of the bulk storage component. A one-year extension of the
closing date was granted, with the possibility of further extension if
project implementation improved. The project continues to be considerably
behind schedule. However, implementation has gained some momentum since
September 1982, when specific targets were established for accomplishment of
certain project works by June 1983. Land acquisition, construction, and
procurement are, overall, in line with these targets, but there remain
deficiencies in staffing, and in the monitoring, training and research
programs which have to be overcome to ensure satisfactory project progress.



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Disbursements under Credit 871 are
on schedule. However, the construction of godowns has been slower than
anticipated because cement supplies have been erratic and the response by
contractors to tender offers has been poor in remote areas. Although the
project is expected to be completed on time, increases in construction costs
are likely to require a revision of the project scope to keep expenditures
within the project financing provisions.
Project implementation in most of the nine participating States under
Credit 1146 is also behind schedule, principally because of organizational
delays. The participating agencies have taken steps to speed up implemena-
tion, but progress continues to be hampered by lack of adequate number of
properly trained staff, supply shortages and cost escalations. NCDC and the
State agencies concerned have resolved to do what is required to speed up
implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near comple-
tion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement improve-
ments in their management support of the dairy producers  unions as required
under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Under Credit 521, nearly 1,500 dairy cooperative societies (DCSs)
have been formed, benefitting over 78,000 families. During 1981/82, these
DCSs collected over 30 million liters of milk, for which the producers were
paid Rs 67 million. The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 1982.
However, as several project-financed facilities are not yet complete, includ-
ing two processing plants, one powder plant, four training centers, and
living quarters for staff, the GOI has requested an extension of the closing
date, which is now under consideration.
Credit 522 has been successfully completed and was closed on
March 31, 1983. Over 800 dairy cooperative societies were formed, serving
a membership of approximately 35,000 families. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Physical execution under Credit 824 is excellent, with the estab-
lishment of new rural and urban dairies, cattle feed plants, and the acquisi-
tion of rail and road milk tankers. The cooperative processing industry is
served by 18,000 cooperatives with membership of over two million households.
In addition, substantial institution building is taking place through the
formation of federations, unions and cooperatives in 59 milksheds covered
under the Operation Flood II Agreements designed to ensure autonomy in pric-
ing and a three-tiered cooperative structure.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects are designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring, mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. The construction of transit and bulk storehouses has
been delayed by land acquisition problems. However, there has been good
progress in civil works and equipment procurement for the seed processing
plants. It is expected that all works except seed farm development under
both projects will be completed by December 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation improve-
ment programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26
The planting and improvement programs initially made very good progress
although this has been dampened in 1982/83 by decreased cashewnut prices and
Corporation land acquisition problems resulting from the Forest Conservation
Act (1980). There is still every expectation that the project will fulfill
its objective of significantly increasing cashew production and improving the
incomes of the farmers.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be covered
by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are increasing.
Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under contract and
work is progressing satisfactorily. The link between university research
and project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in
the early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The recent significant improvement in the staffing situation of the
Department of Sericulture should bolster the previously curtailed extension
program and should lead to increased bivoltine silk production which is a
major project objective hitherto not being achieved. All other project
components are progressing satisfactorily, especially the industrial conr-
ponent where spun silk mill and silk filature are expected to be operational
within 9-12 months.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The recent change in management of Jammu and Kashmir Horticultural
Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation is expected to recoup implemen-
tation progress lost in the last 12 months, and about 60% of project
facilities could be operational for the 1983 harvest. Training programs and
research activities are now well behind schedule.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178  West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26
Cr. No. 1286 Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
December 7, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
Physical progress under Credit 925 is satisfactory, except in the
Eastern Region of the State, where greater population density, lower per
capita income and fragmented farm size have been disincentives to the plant-
ing programs. Remedial measures designed to address these problems, includ-
ing free distribution of seedlings and a planned land consolidation program,
are under consideration by the project authorities.
Credit 961 is proceeding well.  In response to rising prices for
poles and pulpwood, the project has been adopted enthusiastically by the
local residents. The current rate of planting is more than five times that
which existed before the project. Project management is good, with cost
control, audit, disbursement and procurement activities in line with
appraisal report schedules. If the present momentum is maintained, it may be
possible to resolve the rural fuelwood crisis in Gujarat within a decade.
Implementation of the West Bengal Project is satisfactory. The
overall physical targets of the project have been exceeded. The building
program is progressing well and ahead of schedule. Attention now needs to
focus on the recruitment and training of forestry extension workers, who are
becoming urgently needed as tree plantings increase and project activities
accelerate.
Credit 1286, which became effective in December 1982, is designed to
increase suppies of fuelwood and secondary products through the establishment
of 94,000 ha of a new tree plantations, the rehabilitation of 17,000 ha of
degraded forests, and the strengthening of research, training and forestry
extension services in Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. Both States have made a
good start in implementing the first season's plantation program, and
procurement of vehicles and equipment is underway.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The recent improvement in project execution continues, and project
activities are well coordinated. Progress on the main Dholbaha Dam is satis-
factory, and the afforestation and soil conservation components are on
schedule. Feasibility reports for ten watersheds have been competed, five
of which have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. There are expected to
be cost savings from the irrigation and flood control components of the
project, as a result of which the Bank is now reviewing the overall project
design and concept and the possibility of expanding the project scope.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW)          million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the harbor works are now proceeding well following the
finalization of a contractual dispute in September 1982. These harbor works
and shore facilities are expected to be completed within the next year. The
village roads and water supply components have been largely completed.
However, the credit component is considerably behind schedule as a result of
the weak financial position of the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association (GFCCA) and loan recovery problems of the participating banks.
Recommendations for improvement of GFCCA are currently under review by the
Government of Gujarat.
In Andhra Pradesh, one of three fishing harbors being constructed
under the project has been operation for nearly one year, and the remaining
two are scheduled to be completed by mid-1983 and early 1984. The financing
of mechanized fishing vessels remains at a standstill due to loan recovery
problems of the participating banks. NABARD is in the process of discussing
with the banks ways to rectify this situation. Due to an expansion of
private sector investment in seafood processing plants, the Government has
decided to delete one of the two processing plants from the project and
reduce the scope of the second one.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is generally satisfactory.  Construction of
the fish hatcheries in all five project States has commenced, and the first
hatcheries are expected to begin limited operations by June 1983. All 58
Fish Farmer Development Agencies are fully functional and, as project
actlvities accelerate, are placing necessary extension agents in the field.
Progress of the pond improvement schemes has slowed considerably due to
difficulties with loan sanctioning by the participating banks. Through a
more active involvement in the loan approval process, NABARD is taking steps
to correct this situation.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. Marked improvement
has occurred in several components especially construction, now that cement
is being allocated to the project on a priority basis. As a consequence,
disbursements are accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in
Uttar Pradesh has been appointed and the training program is well underway.



ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
The project is fully operational in Madurai District, with all nutri-
tion and health workers in place. Evaluation data show a significant decline
in malnourishment in the project area and the participation rate for those
people eligible for project benefits is over 90%. Civil works are a few
months behind schedule, but the Government of Tamil Nadu has intensified its
supervision work which is expected to speed up completion of the health
subcenters and training facilities. Preparations are well advanced for the
planned expansion of the project into two more Districts in the State in
1983.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
CENTRAL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
The project was prepared over a period of about three years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
National Thermal Power Corporation
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
The project was first presented to the Bank in Septem-
ber 1980; a preparation mission visited India in
October 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 24, 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 22, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 15, 1983
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) NTPC to inform the Bank of any proposal to modify existing
limitations on its borrowing powers (para 62);
(b) NTPC to achieve and maintain a rate of return of 9.5% from
1990/91 (para 59);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) NTPC to conclude bulk supply contracts for the sales of
electricity froml its Singrauli and Korba plants with the
beneficiary SEBs (condition of loan effectiveness,
para 60);
(d) GOI to conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with NTPC
(condition of loan effectiveness, para 56).






AFGHAINISTA-
J A' S N\ I R i
~~->  <N. .,~~~~~~~~~~ C  H  I  N  A
PAKISTAN           N-'~~~~ VHACHiL
-, PPADES-
DpDa
A NAiAD  ~              D      S 
<I JA                 IaAJ                   N D
Al...                             XN~                             )'        
---------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  N                                  /       2
K r~~"~-r'-½~>    N-  A ,H  F,PAANO ADRSA                                                         1
2 -j               Ks   ~< 2,ha,a~'I                  K12~$&Pt  2%I A
ii                 lasa     RA,a4 0 SGii
GQapsR,A½                                 IBURMA
'2                0~~~~~~~~~
KpaALA: N A DH R 
*LAN A20*



