OfFICIAL
DOCUMENTS OAN NUMBER 2283 IN
Project Agreement
(Central Power Transmission Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated                              ,1983


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 6V, 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
LIMITED (hereinafter called NTPC), a company registered under the
Companies Act, 1956. as amended, of the Borrower.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to   two
hundred   fifty   million   seven   hundred   thousand   dollars
($250,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that NTPC agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NTPC, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to NTPC on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NTPC, in consideration of the Bank's en&.ering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NTPC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and public utility practices.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. In order to assist NTPC in carrying out Part F
of the Project, NTPC shall employ engineering consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as thr Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NTPC undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by NTPC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and NTPC shall other-
wise agree, NTPC shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NTPC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) NTPC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and impact, to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, its impact, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) Upon the award by NTPC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NTPC and the
Bank, NTPC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by NTPC and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
(e) NTPC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property,
equipment, records and documents of NTPC relevant to the perform-
ance of NTPC's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. NTPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NTPC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) NTPC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) NTPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by NTPC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NTPC
Section 3.01. NTPC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and


﻿carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, administrative and engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) NTPC shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and the right to carry on its operations and
to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain and
renew all interests in land and other properties, and take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
(b) NTPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NTPC shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. NTPC shall inform the Bank of any proposal to
modify existing limitations on the powers of NTPC's Board of
Directors to borrow funds before placing such a proposal on the
agenda for consideration by NTPC in a general meeting
Section 3.04. NTPC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank, for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NTPC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. NTPC shall:
(a)   have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)


﻿- 5 -
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than seven months after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and NTPC:
(a) NTPC shall, beginning with its fiscal year 1983/84, set
tariffs and conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as
to achieve in its fiscal year beginning April 1, 1990 and
maintain thereafter an annual rate   of return of not less than
nine and one-half per cent (9-1/2%).
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
annual rate of return for any financial year shall be calculated
by expressing the operating income for the particular financial
year as a percentage of the average of the capital base at the
beginning and end of such financial year. For the purposes of the
foregoing:
(i) "operating income" means total operating revenues
from the sale of electricity and from other serv-
ices incidental thereto; less all administration,
operating and maintenance expenses, adequate pro-
vision for depreciation, and taxes (including
income taxes), but excluding interest and other
charges on debt; and
(ii) "capital base" means the sum of (A) the gross book
value of fixed assets in operation, and (B) the
cost of intangible assets, less the amount of
accumulated accrued depreciation.


﻿- 6 -
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section,
"depreciation" shall be calculated using the straight-line method
on the value of depreciable fixed assets in service.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of NTPC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify NTPC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NTPC:
National Thermal Power Corporation
Limited
62-63 Nehru Place, NTPC Square
New Delhi 110019, India
Cable address:                      Telex:
THERMPOWER                       ND 2266
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NTPC may be taken or executed by
its Managing Director or such other person or persons as NTPC
shall designate in writing, and NTPC shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, NTPC shall prepare and forward
to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. NTPC shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 10-
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 11 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $2,500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, NTPC shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, NTPC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, NTPC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in


﻿- 12 -
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for
such determinati3n.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original,price, NTPC shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    b     day of  h!t&, 198L
FOR SECRETARY


