DOT              LOAN NUMBER 2283 IN
Loan Agreement
(Central Power Transmission Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2283 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1983, between
INDIA, acting by its Presiden  (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the National Thermal
Power Corporation Limited with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
National Thermal Power Corporation Limited the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the National
Thermal Power Corporation Limited;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NTPC"   means  National   Thermal  Power  Corporation
Limited, a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956, as
amended, of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and NTPC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NTPC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred   fifty   million   seven   hundred   thousand   dollars
($250,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to six hundred twenty-five thousand one hundred
eighty-seven dollars ($625,187).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account


﻿- 3 -
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings" means:    (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause NTPC to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NTPC
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NTPC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
NTPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NTPC, under terms and conditions which sha'l
have been approved by the Bank which shall, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, include interest at an effective rate of
not less than 12% per annum on the principal amount so relent and
withdrawn by NTPC and outstanding from time to time, and repay-
ment over a period of twenty years, including therein a period of
grace of five years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of


﻿-5-
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) When, with respect to any goods required
for the Project, the contract is awarded for goods to be supplied
from outside of India, the Borrower shall promptly grant permis-
sion to import the goods covered by the contract and all foreign
exchange required therefor shall be promptly made available.
(b) When, with respect to any goods required for the
Project, the contract is awarded for goods to be manufactured in
India, the Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such
import licenses as shall be required to implement the contract;


﻿- 6 -
(ii) make available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange
which shall be required therefor; and (iii) with respect to
locally produced materials which are subject to allocation, make
or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and
in such quan-ities as shall be required for such contract.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) NTPC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by NTPC, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would materially and adversely affect
the conduct of NTPC's business or NTPC's financial condition or
the efficiency of NTPC's management and personnel or the carrying
out of the Project.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that NTPC will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NTPC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) A change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of NTPC dated November 7, 1975, amended
to the date of this Agreement, without the consent of the Bank
which would materially and adversely affect the financial condi-
tion or operations of NTPC.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement 3hall occur and shall continue for a


﻿- 7 -
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and NTPC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NTPC; and
(b) NTPC has entered into bulk supply contracts for the
sale of electricity with such State Electricity Boards as are
allocated a share of the supply from NTPC's thermal power
stations in Singrauli and Korba.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NTPC, and is legally binding upon NTPC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NTPC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NTPC in accordance with its term.
Section 6.03. The date              L    , /9 V, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the


﻿- 8 -
Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                          953-31354
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By               49J
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and           235,000,000        100% of foreign
materials                                 expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(2) Consultants'              2,500,000        100%
services
(3) Fee                         625,187        Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement
(4) Unallocated              12,574,813
TOTAL              250,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to support the Borrower's power
development program and consists of the following:
Part A:   400 kV Transmission Lines
The installation of about 550 km of double-circuit lines
between Ramagundam and Mangur, Mangur and Vijayawada, and
Ramagundam and Chandrapur, and about 560 km of single-circuit
lines between Vijayawada and Nellore, Nellore and Red Hills, and
Singrauli and Vindhyachal.
Part B:   400/220 kV Substations
Extension   of   substations  at   Chandrapur,   Ramagundam,
Singrauli, Vindhyachal and Red Hills to connect relevant 400 kV
transmission lines, and construction of new substations at
Mangur, Vijayawada and Nellore, each including a 400/220 kV
transformer of 315 MVA capacity.
Part C:   500 MW HVDC Substation
The construction of a 500 MW twin module (two 250 MW) High
Voltage   Direct  Current   (HVDC)  back-to-back   substation  at
Vindhyachal.
Part D:   Metering and Instrumentation
Installation of tariff metering systems and disturbance
recorders in important substations of the Northern, Western and
Southern Regional grids.
Part E:   Communications
The acquisition and utilization of power line carrier
communication (PLCC) equipment for speech transmission, line
protection and data transmission on each 400 kV transmission
line.
Part F:   Technical Services
Utilization of technical services for the carrying out of
detailed equipment and system engineering, and supervision during


