Dranint of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
XAJ D'    rm- C4??
(LAQ /643- C/f
Ripen No.P-4232-1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$75.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 22.8 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
February 11, 1986
This doimemt ha a resSited dIshiSim  ad my be wmd by redplea emly ilath  perfeae of
I  their idSl slt& lb cefo moy nt odherwise be disdaed witbhet WeM Bhu  a.dcoi_ldeu.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan - Renminbi (Y)
Calendar 1984                  December 1985
US$1 = Y 2.32                      Y 3.20
Y 1.0 = $0.43                       $0.31
LIST OF ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC            -  Bank of China
CIB            -  China Investment Bank
CNTIC          -  China National Technical Import Corporation
DFC            -  Development Finance Company
EDI            -  Economic Development Institute
ICB            -  International Competitive Bidding
ICBC           -  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
PBC            -  People's Bank of China (Central Bank)
PCBC           -  People's Construction Bank of China
SEC            -  State Economic Commission
SPC            -  State Planning Commission



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK III)
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:            China Investment Bank (CIB)
Amount:                  $100 million equivalent, comprising $75 million
equivalent IBRD and SDR 22.80 million ($25 million
equivalent) IDA.
Terms:                  Loan:  20 years, including 5 years grace; standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard
Relending Terms:        The proceeds of the loan and credit would be onlent to
CIB for 20 years, including 5 years grace at a fixed
interest rate of 7.OZ p.a., plus commitment fees equal
to those under the loan and credit; the Government
would bear the interest rate risk on the Bank loan and
the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and
(a) the currency pool for the Bank loan; and (b) the
SDR for the IDA credit. Subborrowers would be charged
a fixed interest rate of 8.5Z p.a. and would bear the
foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the
Yuan.
Project Description:    The project, designed to support CIB's short-term
financing plan, will further strengthen CIB, which
provides investment loans for small- and medium-size
industrial projects needing foreign exchange. The
objective would be to continue Bank support for
improved investment efficiency through import of
technology and the introduction of improved project
design and selection methodology. Subborrowers would
be some 80 state and collective enterprises primarily
in the 19 eastern provinces and municipalities. The
investments are expected to have high financial and
economic returns. The main project risk relates to
the capacity of CIB, a young institution, to further
improve its present standards, especially for project
economic and marketing appraisals and for financial
management and resource mobilization. This risk is,
however, expected to be minimized with the start in
1986 of specialized training abroad for CIB staff.
IThis document has a netried dtrnbution and my b used by nrepients only in the performance of
their offic duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



- ii -
Bank FY        86       87      88      89     90
-  (US$-mln)          -
Estimated Disbursement  Annual          5.0     18.0     40.0   20.0   17.0
Cumulative      5.0     23.0     63.0   83.0  100.0
Staff Appraisal Report: None
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK III)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a third
industrial credit project. The loan for $75.0 million equivalent, would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with standard variable
interest rate. The credit, for SDR 22.80 million ($25.0 million equivalent),
would be on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the loan and credit would be
onlent to the China Investment Bank (CIB) with a 20-year term, including 5
years of grace, at an interest rate of 7.0% p.a., plus commitment fees equal
to those under the loan and credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system"'. By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years.  Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5Z p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 1OZ p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 50% in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8Z p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 1OZ p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12X p.a. vs. 9Z p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12Z p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4% p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60Z as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8Z p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly
$4 billion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
7 months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there vas a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14% during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20Z and domestic credit grew by 36Z. The
retail price index rose by only 3% in 1984, but preliminary figures show an
inflation rate of 9% for 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from
$4 billion in 1983 to over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase
occurring in the second half of the year.  There was also a rapid expansion in
consumer goods imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a
result, foreign exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about
$11 billion by June 1985 (equivalent to 3.5 months of imports), and the
current account deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of
$10 billion. The Government has responded quickly by launching a strict



- 3 -
stabilization program that includes further increases in interest rates as
well as a series of administrative directives governing bank credit and
project approval. As a result, aggregate credit and demand as well as new
import orders have begun to slow, though total imports will continue to rise
as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement
agencies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price.  Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).



11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fized capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed
investment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in
spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more
strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agricuLture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial. units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent Iears. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given
significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9Z interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8Z for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on
budgetary capital construction loans (formerLy grants) rpmain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent



- 5 -
difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7Z p.a. for industry, 6Z for agriculture, a little over 7Z for
GNP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition, increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extsided
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and i&bor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficuLt, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means CDP growth of well over 6Z
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be



- 6 -
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share o  agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problemn which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technolcgy must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major chrllenge as enterprise and ru-al
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,
backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.



-7-
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sistained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50% over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8% p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9Z p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. (except in 1985) during the remainder of
this decade, equivalent to about 1X of GNP. This implies that the present
debt service ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports
grow more slowly imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher
borrowing target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would
probably run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the
decade. Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at
8% p.a. and imports at 9Z p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit
would be over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be
about $6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and
imports continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at comercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and moderniza-
tion is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of conces-
sionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral
donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the
rest of the 1'.0s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in proposals for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan, to increase efficiency and innovation, and to maintain
equity in distribution, China will need continuing and fundamental reforms.
Large investment will be required and China will need to import more technol-
ogy and increase trade.  In the next few years, therefore, the Bank can best
assist China by increasing its access to foreign technology and practices and
supporting the development and implementation of reforms that will help to
increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective to update technology, the Bank will
play the role of intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and the social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology
transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and by
helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through international
competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.



- 8 -
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved as well as the overall process of plan-
ning and management. Second, financial sector reform, primarily development
of financial institutions that can serve as intermediaries between the
suppliers and users of resources, has become a focus of reform and is an area
where Bank assistance can play a useful role. Third, improving planning and
project analysis will be critical to reform in sectors such as agriculture and
industry, where decisions are now being made by households and independent
enterprises, as well as in infrastructure where direct government involvement
will be required. The Bank will therefore continue its emphasis on introduc-
ing appraisal methods and will include sector investment and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Government will make institutional and policy changes to further
improve the quality of social programs. The Bank will thus support reforms in
health, education and other social services and measures in particular, to
address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       Our economic and sector work in China aims to develop the Bank's
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and to
introduce to the Government new perspectives on economic management. This
work builds a foundation for lending and for the dialogue with Government on
issues of reform and development options and policies in the various
sectors. Past work has included two major economic reports, studies on
sectoral investment analysis and planning, and collaborative research with
Chinese institutions. We have also organized seminars on macroeconomic and
sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic report
and analyze policy options. In this program, we will examine alternatives for
developing the financial system and foreign trade and investment. We will
also analyze issues of intersectoral and interregional planning and develop-
ment of resource-poor regions. One such study is already underway in Gansu
province to review and formulate programs to increase interregional resource
flows, improve the spatial efficiency of development and reduce poverty.
Research on urban development and transport planning and finance at the
provincial level will also be initiated, and we will undertake studies of
regional industrial subsectors to form the basis for project preparation.
Collaborative studies with Chinese research institutions will continue. An
ongoing study of management and guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises
will be followed by a study of coilective enterprises, which are expected to
become increasingly important industrial organizations in the reformed system.



-9-
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 31 projects involving lending of $3,049.9 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, ten have been in the agriculture sector, seven in
energy, four in transport, three in industry, three in education and one each
in health, water supply and technical cooperation. In FY85, IFC made its
first investment in China of US$17.02 million in automobile manufacturing.
Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits and IFC invest-
ment as of October 31, 1985.
29.       In addition to the already approved rural credit project and the
proposed project we expect to present projects to the Board this year for
provincial higher education, power infrastructure, port and railway
development, aquaculture, health, industry, and technical cooperation. For
FY87 and beyond, we expect the China lending program to continue to grow from
current levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain
priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry,
will be given greater attention and support as will the regional approach to
project development, now being used to assess the needs of Gansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at reducing
energy consumption and expanding energy production. For example, in the coal
subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and operations of exist-
ing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines under construction
or in operation. In power, we will assist China in technology transfer, staff
training and institution building. Through a power tariff study, we will seek
to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost and the need for a nation-
wide power system development program. In the gas subsector, the rationale
for project involvement will lie in the identification, packaging and transfer
of specialized technologies as well as in the strengthening of investment
planning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and
financing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and
introduction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In rail-
ways, we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway
equipment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and
electrification. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to
include coastal shipping and inland water transport. For all transport
suosectors, we will support efforts to improve financial analysis and
investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be major aspects
of change that will be supported through rural credit projects. We will
continue to assist with the training, research, extension, and other service
activities of the ministries concerned with agriculture. In addition, we
expect to finance programs for specialized agricultural development such as
livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation and area development.



- 10 -
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be ti assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient heaLth care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power and rural water supply and will remain a
feature of our assistance program. We will explore options for cofinancing
with export credit agencies. Commercial bank cofinancing and the use of
B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China increases the overall volume
of its foreign borrowing. In technical assistance, we will continue to incor-
porate into projects components for training, overseas study, and access to
foreign expertise. In addition, we will be a cooperating agency for a second
UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities remain an important element of
the Bank's program and in coming years will provide an extensive program of
policy seminars for senior Chinese officials, and economic and financial
management courses and sector-specific training for officials from core and
line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for 22 of the 30 approved projects and have helped to speed
disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in Beijing
to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project prepa-
ration, improve project implementation and further economic and sector work.



- 11 -
FART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
38.       Characteristics and Accomplishments.  China is one of the world's
ten leading industrial producers, and has the largest full-time industrial
employment (63 million). However, manufacturing output per capita is only
about 25% of the average for middle income countries and about 4% of that for
industrialized market economies. State enterprises comprise 22% of China's
392,000 industrial enterprises, the rest being urban or rural collective
enterprises, but they account for 72% of output. Manufactured exports were
only 5% of gross industrial output in 1984, but accounted for 55% of total
merchandise exports. Light industrial products were 37% of total exports, and
heavy industrial goods 18%. Manufactured exports grew by about 20% p.a. in
real terms over 1977-81, and by 18% in 1982-1984 despite the world
recession. A wide range of Chinese manufactures is internationally
competitive in terms of production cost, but quality and variety often need
upgrading. Three accomplishments of Chinese industry stand out. First,
despite ieriodic disruptions, gross output has grown at nearly 10% p.a. during
1957-1983 and grew by a record 14% p.a. in 1984, due to a very high rate of
fixed investment in industry, averaging 10-15% of GDP and reaching more than
$28 billion in 1984. Second, the industrial base has been broadened to
produce nearly the full range of machinery and industrial products
manufactured in the world. Third, China has mobilized unskilled labor, rural
savings, and low-grade raw materials to establish a large number of small-
scale rural factories, bringing extra income and basic goods (albeit often of
low quality) to rural areas, and contributing greatly to employment.
39.       Weaknesses.  Chinese industry also has numerous shortcomings:  (a)
Technology is outmoded in many sectors; while the use of older, labor-
intensive equipment is generally sensible given Chinese factor proportions, a
lot of Chinese equipment and processes produce substandard products and waste
energy and raw materials. As a result, inputs are used very inefficiently,
and total factor productivity has not significantly changed since the 1950s;
incremental capital output ratios have risen, over staffing is widespread and
energy use per unit of GDP is 2-1/2 times that of other developing
countries. (b) Heavy industry, with its high demands on scarce capital and
energy, still represents half of industrial output and two-thirds of total
fixed industrial investment, and foreign trade has thus been relatively
neglected.  (c) Decisions are badly coordinated:  supply and demand are often
mismatched and investments made with insufficient attention to choice of
location, scale, or product mix. Some of these weaknesses are the result of
past policy errors, neglect of medium term sectoral planning, and two decades
of international isolation. Others stem from deficiencies in the economic
system: insufficient incentives to conserve inputs or improve output quality,
distorted prices favoring consumer goods of light industry, restricted access
to imports, and inadequate contacts and information flows between producers
and users and among different ministries and regions.



- 12 -
40.       Constraints on Growth in the l980s.  It is particularly important
now to correct these weaknesses because the conditions which favored past
industrial success have substantially altered. Energy production, especially
electric power, raw materials, transport and high level manpower are likely to
constrain growth. In addition, the Government is trying to reduce the
resources allocated to industrial investment in view of past over-investment
and in order to free more resources for the energy and transport sectors and
for consumption. At the same time, industrial exports will have to expand, in
the face of difficult world market conditions, to help offset reduced energy
exports, and industry must remain a principal source of new jobs. It is
possible for industry to grow at about 7% p.a., as called for in the
Government's long-term plan objectives, provided that China reduces its unit
energy and materials consumption, emphasizes light industry, and, in general,
continues to foster modernization and to reform its economic system so as to
make efficiency and productivity gains the main engine of growth.
41.       Government Strategy.  Since 1979, the Government has followed a
strategy based on readjustment and system reform. Under the readjustment, the
new priorities were: (a) technical "modernization" of existing enterprises,
particularly through imported technology, rather than "capital construction"
(of new facilities); (b) development of light industry and manufactured
exports; and (c) energy and materials conservation, particularly in heavy
industry. The adjustment has been successful, particularly in shifting
emphasis towards light industry and technical modernization investments, which
helped reduce energy consumption. These priorities were reiterated in the
general orientations given for the preparation of the Seventh Five-Year Plan
(1986-1990). A broad framework for the industrial reform was approved by the
Government in October 1984; its main thrust is to decentralize economic
decision-making and rely on the market to provide incentives and guide
decisions, through the following measures: (a) industrial enterprises will be
made independent units pursuing profits and responsible for losses; (b) the
tax system will be improved, and enterprises allowed to retain their profits
after income and other taxes; (c) a more rational price system will be
introduced by reducing the scope of state-controlled prices and increasing the
freedom of enterprises to adjust their prices to market conditions; (d) the
scope of mandatory planning would be reduced in favor of indicative planning
with focus on medium and long-term guidance; and (e) the investment finance
and banking systems will be reformed, to generalize the use of loans and other
capital charges for investment finance.
42.       Recent Developments.  Some of these measures have been partly
implemented in 1985. Collective enterprises, the most dynamic segment of
industry, were given greater freedom in their decision-making; collective
enterprises, and a majority of state enterprises, now pay profit and
adjustment taxes (instead of full profit remittance to the Government); a two-
tier price system giving more autonomy to the enterprises in pricing their
sales above a production quota was established for most industrial products;
and the role and autonomy of the banking system in investment finance
decisions was increased, with the share of loans in investment financing
increased to 15-20% and that of budget appropriations reduced to about one-
thi-d over 1979-1984. Industrial reform had raised the interest of enterprise
management in increasing output and profits, but had not been accompanied by
more extensive pricing changes to give better allocation signals, and there
has been little discernible improvement in industrial efficiency as yet.



- 13 -
Furthermore, the imnediste effects of the first measures and of control
loosening in 1985 were an upsurge of inflation and economic overheating; in
response, the Government has tightened control over investment finance and
stopped many low-priority projects.
The Financial Sector
43.       Role.  As in most centrally planned economies, China's financial
system is relatively underdeveloped because most fixed investment and even
working capital used to be financed through the budget.  The financial system
has served mainly to channel budgetary funds for approved purposes and to help
control state and collective enterprises. More recently, increased attention
has been paid to using the banks to mobilize savings, increase investment
efficiency, and provide a detailed review of Project proposals independent of
the enterprises and their supervisory agencies.
44.       Institutional Background.  China's financial system has included
five specialized state banks grouped under two separate jurisdictions. Under
the People's Bank of China (PBC) which had ministry-level status as a multi-
purpose central and comercial bank, there have been the Bank of China (BOC),
responsible for commercial transaction and loans in foreign exchange, and the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), in charge of banking and financial
administration in rural areas nationwide. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has
supervised two institutions: the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC),
which has the main financial responsibility for appraising and disbursing for
capital construction in the productive and social sectors of the economy,
through both grants and loans in local currency, and the China Investment Bank
(CIB). The Government established CIB in December 1981 with an initial paid-
in share capital of Y 400 million as its fifth bank and first development
finance company. CIB lends for investments requiring both foreign exchange
and local currency primarily to modernize or expand industrial enterprises.
CIB is closely tied to PCBC for administrative services, access to enterprises
and other agencies, and recruitment of staff and managers.
45.       At the beginning of 1984, PBC was established as the central bank
and given the mandate to supervise the banking operations of all other
financial institutions. Institutional articulations and development of
monetary control instruments for PBC are still incomplete; greater authority
given to PBC in 1985 appears to have strengthened its ability to monitor and
restrict credit supply by the other banks. PBC's comercial banking
activities (taking deposits and providing short-term working capital loans and
medium-term modernizations loans in local currency) were spun off to form the
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). The extension of PBC's
supervisory role over the entire financial system is a further step towards
separating MOF's fiscal functions from the regular banking activities of the
financial system, and provides an institutional framework within which other
financial sector issues, such as interest rates and the roles of the various
specialized banks, can be dealt with. It is also expected to reinforce the
ongoing effort to increase the efficiency of investment by shifting from a
grant system administered by MOF to a more autonomous credit system. In
addition, a Financial Board of Governors representing MOF and the main banks
was established, to improve coordination in policy making and implementation.



- 14 -
46.       Investment Finance.  Fixed investment in China is financed from a
variety of sources: state budget grants (from central and local governments),
extra-budgetary funds of various government agencies, enterprises retained
profits and depreciation allowances, domestic bank loans and foreign loans.
The share financed by state budget grants has fallen steadily during the past
15 years, from 75% in 1970, to 31% in 1982 and 1983.  Until 1979, tl
offsetting increase was virtually all from enterprises and government
agencies; bank loans financed less than 2% of fixed inv-stment. Since then,
the role of credit has expanded dramatically: in 1982 and 1983, domestic bank
loans financed 16% of fixed investment in the state-owned sector, and foreign
loans a further 7%. Now PCBC passes on budget funds as loans to most
enterprises that are profitable; the state budget grants go mainly for
infrastructure, and capital construction projects in certain heavy industries
(e.g., coal mining), which have high priority but low profits. Loans and
self-financing have accounted respectively for 22% and 65% of modernization
investments, compared to 13% and 35% respectively for capital construction.
The domestic bank loans for capital construction are mostly from PCBC, using
both state budget funds and enterprise and agency deposits; those for
modernization are chiefly from ICBC and BOC. Under the new banking system,
most of PCBC's modernization lending is to be transferred to ICBC. All
lending is supposed to be in line with the annual national credit plan
prepared by PBC and approved by the State Council; however, following the
overheating fueled by excessive credit supply in late 1984 and early 1985,
further efforts are required and being made to control this lending.
47.       The shift from grants to loans gave enterprise managers some
incentive to economize on investment costs, as higher amortization reduced
profits, which have been one measure of enterprise performance. The
introduction of limited profit retention increased this incentive, and the
recent shift from profit remittance to an industrial income tax went further
in this direction. However, given the existing distorted price structure,
full reliance on credit would shift investment towards the more financially
profitable industries, which may not be those with the highest economic
returns. The success of the financial reforms will therefore remain
incomplete without comprehensive price reform.
48.       Foreign Exchange Finance.  Enterprises whose investments include
foreign exchange costs often look for overseas partners, usually for
compensation trade, especially if overseas marketing is expected to be
critical and difficult. Enterprises which do not need, or fail to obtain,
such partners turn to BOC and CIB for foreign exchange investment loans. BOC,
which concentrated on short-term finance until 1981, has become the primary
source of foreign exchange loans to enterprises since 1982. It had been using
China's balance-of-payments surplus for most of its investment lending for
modernization projects, until early 1985.   BOC's foreign exchange
disbursements totalled about US$1.8 billion in 1983, and its approvals reached
US$3.25 billion in 1984. Among the various types of foreign exchange loans
provided by BOC, the attractive loans at "prime" rate and special B loans
(disbursed in foreign exchange and repayable in domestic currency) have
increased their share. BOC's loan criteria remain primarily commercial, with
the ability to generate foreign exchange to repay the loan given greatest
weight. In some provinces, CIB and BOC meet together with the core agencies
to divide up the investment program; in most provinces, however, they actively
compete for business. Competition is based in part on special terms and



- 15 -
exemptions accorded to one or the other bank by the Government; these
anomalies reflect poorly coordinated decision-making in the financial
sector. They do not lead to significant misallocation of resources, and
coordination is expected to improve (para. 45). However, the simpler
appraisal procedure of BOC and its B loans repayable in domestic currency have
put significant pressure on the competitive position of CIB.
49.       Interest Rates.  Lending rates to industry, while low by
international standards, have been positive in real terms and were increased
substantially in 1985 to make enterprises more conscious of, and sensitive to,
the cost of capital. Except for the low rates of 2.4Z to 4.2% p.a. charged
for capital construction investments which are generally deemed to have
marginal profitability, domestic interest rates have had since April 1985 a
rational term structure with a rising yield curve. Deposit rates for
enterprises and agencies are 1.8% p.a. for d%mand deposits and 4.3% to 5.76Z
p.a. for time deposits, depending on maturity. Working capital loans carry a
rate of 7.92% p.a., and loans for modernization have rates ranging from 7.92%
p.a. (1-year term) to 10.80Z p.a. (for terms over 10 years). Lending rates on
foreign currency loans are set partly by reference to international costs.
But the bulk of BOC's US$ loans for modernization are charged BOC's prime
rate, which was increased from 7.5-8.5X p.a. to 8.5-9.5% p.a. in September
1985. However, the Government has also made special allocations, currently
US$500 million p.a., for urgent modernization projects in Shanghai and
Tianjin, to be lent by BOC at the subsidized rate of 2.52Z p.a. Moreover,
large amounts of capital goods imports are financed by domestic currency loans
converted into foreign exchange from central or local government reserves and
carrying the domestic interest rates without foreign exchange risks. Despite
the progress made in rationalizing and unifying the structure of interest
rates for deposits and domestic currency loans, China still needs to further
develop a more consistent interest rate policy, in particular for foreign
exchange loans, as part of its financial, banking and other economic reforms.
Bank Objectives and Role in the Industrial and Financial Sectors
50.       The Bank's principal objective in industry and finance is to support
the program of adjustment and reform focussing on areas where prior experience
and expertise gives it a comparative advantage. The focus is on improving
policies and institutions, upgrading technology, conserving energy and
materials, and promoting exports. So far, the Bank's industrial lending
operations have included two Industrial Credit Projects (CIB I and II,
Credit 1313/Loan 2226-CHA and Credit 1491/Loan 2434-CRA) approved by the
Executive Directors in December 1982 and June 1984. Most recently, a loan for
plant rehabilitation and modernization (with particular emphasis on energy
savings) for the chemical fertilizer industry was approved in May 1985, (Loan
2541-CHA). Other industrial projects under consideration would support the
modernization of the machine tools subsector in Shanghai, and assist in
upgrading technology in cement production. Most recently, in discussions held
in October 1985, the Government has indicated its interest in further
expanding Bank financing for projects in industry during the Seventh Five-Year
Plan period (1986-90). The industry program is being supported through both
sector studies and collaborative research. In particular, the Bank will
undertake in 1986, with the Government's cooperation, a review of the
financial system and of investment finance issues, including the structure of
interest rates.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
51.       The need for a financial intermediary for industrial lending
involving import of equipment and technology was identified by the Bank's
first economic mission to China in October-December 1980. Specific proposals
for the first Industrial Credit Project (CIB I) were developed in the course
of 1981 and 1982, and implementation began in 1983. The second Project
(CIB II) was appraised in October 1983, negotiated in Washington in April 1984
and approved by the Board of Directors in June 1984. At that time, it was
anticipated that CIB would commit the new loan/credit over an 18-24 month
period, i.e. by mid 1986. In fact for reasons described in para 52 below, the
funds were almost fully committed within 12 months, by October 1985. The Bank
was aware of the acceleration and had included a larger third loan/credit for
lending in FY86; however, a number of institutional changes involving CIB's
organization, training programs and recruitment are still under discussion, as
well as issues relating to CIB's longer-term financing plans. Some of these
matters in turn reflect uncertainties arising from the rapid evolution of the
financial and credit policy in China (paras. 43 - 49 above) and broader
patterns of institutional change relating thereto. In the light of CIB's now
urgent need for new resources (CIB branches have been instructed to suspend
pipeline development and appraisal of new loans), and pending further
discussion and agreement on various measures of institutional strengthening
and long term plans for CIB, the Government has requested an interim opera-
tion, which is designed to assist CIB to implement its short-term financing
plan for carrying commitments through 1986. The proposed $100 million
loan/credit arises from this request. A fourth and full-fledged loan to CIB
is planned for FY87. Since no new appraisal is yet completed, except for
updated information provided throughout the report, the loan/credit would be
implemented under the arrangements agreed for CIB II. The proposed
loan/credit to CIB was negotiated in January 1986. The Coverrnment and CIB
were represented by a delegation headed by Mr. Xu Baogen, of the Ministry of
Finance. Supplementary project data are in Annexes III and IV.
52.       CIB I was signed in December 1982 and became effective in April
1983. By the end of 1984 the proceeds of the Bank loan of $40.6 million and
IDA credit of SDR 28 million (equivalent to $40 million) were fully committed
for 56 subprojects. Disbursements amounted to $41.5 million as of January 31,
1986, compared with the revised forecast of $32.5 million up to December 31,
1985. The second CIB project, consisting of a loan of $105 million and credit
of SDR 65.8 million (equivalent to $70 million), was signed in June 1984.
With all the conditions of effectiveness satisfactorily met by CIB and
Government on schedule, it became effective in October 1984. The loan/credit
was practically fully committed (for 153 subprojects) within 12 months,
instead of 18-24 months as originally projected. The fast pace at which
CIB II was committed is attributable to the following developments: (a) in
anticipation of CIB II, the State Council issued a Circular in April 1984 to
all provinces, regions and municipalities emphasizing the role of CIB, as a
new channel for the utilization of foreign funds, with great advantages for
developing the national economy and accelerating the technical transformation
of industry; (b) the State Council designated 14 coastal cities in 1984 to
join the four Special Economic Zones as special centers opening their doors to



- 17 -
foreign investors and enjoying more autonomy in investment decision making;
(c) given the encouragement of the Central Government and the increasing need
for financing technical transformation projects, the provincial authorities
provided full support in setting up CIB branches. As a result, the number of
CIB branches increased sharply from 7 in early 1984 to 19 by early 1985;
moreover, BOC's foreign exchange lending in 1985 was sharply curtailed and
consequently a number of project sponsors shifted to CIB for financing.
Disbursement under CIB II has been faster than under CIB I. As of
January 31, 1986, cumulative disbursements under CIB II amounted to
$33.8 million, compared to $15 million projected up to December 31, 1985.
53.       CIB has achieved a great deal in its institutional development since
its founding in 1981. It has adopted effective procedures, modern project
appraisal techniques and comprehensive project supervision guidelines, and is
presently recognized in China as the only financial institution capable of
appraising industrial projects thoroughly and according to well founded
methodologies. However, the rapid expansion of its branch network and lending
operations has strained its existing organization. The recent restructuring
of the Head Office (para. 56) although desirable, will not make an immediate
contribution to the streamlining of the organization because the existing
staff transferred between departments need to be trained, and additional staff
need to be recruited. The monitoring and coordinating capabilities of the
Bead Office and the Project supervision capabilities of the branches in
particular should be upgraded so that CIB is further strengthened to perform
the important role it was assigned by the Government for the modernization of
China's industry. Regular supervision missions of the Bank have shown that
overall, CIB has continued to perform satisfactorily.
54.       CIB III would extend the objectives and achievements of CIB II
further in time and would remain practically identical to CIB II in objectives
and design. CIB III would pursue the Bank Group's institution-building
efforts with CIB. CIB should begin to move upstream more into project design,
to further improve the appraisal work especially of its recently established
branches, and to appraise larger and more complicated projects, including
those involving sectoral issues. Towards these objectives, the focus would be
on improving further CIB's overall appraisal capability, especially in
economic and marketing issues, through overseas training (para. 59), and on
building CIB's capacity for resource mobilization and cash management (para.
57). The Bank, for its part, would continue to pay particular attention to
Project appraisal and implementation. This institutional strengthening is
particularly important because CIB has just completed a period of rapid
expansion and these early years are crucial for consolidating CIB's
credibility with other agencies. At the same time, the development of a DFC
like CIB is a long-term process which will need to continue well beyond the
proposed loan/credit.
The China Investment Bank (CIB)
55.       Headquarters.  CIB consists of a Head Office situated in Beijing and
19 branches, 1 for each of a corresponding number of municipalities and
provinces that together account for some 76% of China's population and 87% of
its industrial output. CIB's 32-member Board of Directors, consisting of
senior officials of PCBC and other ministries and agencies of the central and
local governments, meets once a year to review and decide on CIB's annual



- 18 -
plan, major policies, etc. A Managing Committee consisting of the Board
Chairman, three Deputy Chairmen and seven Managing Directors deal with all
other major matters including loan approvals of Y 10 million or more and
borrowings below $50 million. Loans below Y 10 million are approved by the
President, who is a Deputy Chairman of the CIB Board and the First Vice
President of PCBC. Day-to-day management is largely in the hands of CIB's
first full-time Vice President. The Head Office has six departments - Project
Lending, Technical and Engineering, Supervision and Implementation, Finance
and Accounting, Coordination and Planning, and the General Administration
Office -- each headed by a Manager or Deputy Manager. An internal auditor is
directly responsible to the Managing Committee. The CIB Head Office
management has extensive experience, primarily within PCBC. Although some of
the concepts involved in DFC financial operations and economic appraisal of
projects were new to them, CIB staff have been willing to adopt them once
clearance was given from above.
56.       The Head Office has 65 staff and the branches have a total of 463.
Except for engineers, virtually all came from PCBC or are new graduates, as
interagency transfers are rare i.n the Chinese system. As CIB's operations
have been expanding rapidly, and CIB's branches have been given most
responsibility for Project selection and appraisal, staff recruitment by the
branches has generally caught up with the workload. In anticipation of more
project supervision work and increasing need for specialization in reviewing
appraisal reports submitted by branches, CIB Head Office was restructured in
September, 1985, by setting up two new departments (Project Supervision
Department and Technical Department). The former Economic Research Departmfnt
was absorbed by the Project Lending Department. The Head Office staff was
increased from 38 in mid 1984 to 65 in November 1985 by recruiting new
graduates, but some experienced staff have left CIB in the course of 1985
finding jobs with better compensation. A second full-time Vice-President was
appointed in January 1986 to supervise and coordinate the three operational
departments (Project Lending, Technical and Project Supervision Departments)
now dealing with the Project appraisal and supervision work of the branches.
CIB urgently needs financial expertise to undertake planning of its resource
needs, raising funds overseas in the international capital markets, and
overall funds management. Staff of CIB Head Office needs to be strengthened
and, in order to recruit and retain qualified staff, CIB's staff compensation
should be made more competitive. CIB management is considering action for
improving this situation and would implement a long-term training program
under the project (para. 59).
57.       As agreed with the Bank under CIB II, CIB has been employing since
end of 1984 a number of external Senior Advisors comprising: (a) a part-time
senior engineer to supervise the work of the Head Office and branch engineers;
and (b) a team of professors of economics at Beijing University, working part-
time at CIB's Head Office to guide the branches in their economic analysis,
review economic aspects of appraisal reports, and coordinate with other
agencies on economic issues related to CIB's work. For the provision of
information and analysis on world markets as needed to review proposed loans,
CIB has signed a satisfactory contract with China Trade Consultants and
Technical Service Corporation under the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
and Trade. CIB will continue to employ these Advisers as agreed under CIB
II. In addition, in order to meet the urgent needs of CIB's Finance and
Accounting Department, CIB will continue its best efforts to recruit



- 19 -
experienced financial experts for planning CIB's resource needs, mobilizing
resources abroad, and managing CIB's cash and funds.
58.       Branches.  CIB has branches in Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin
Municipalities and Jiangsu, Hebei, Fujian, Hubei, Liaoning, Anhui, Zhejiang,
Shandong, Heilongjiang, Guangdong, Guangxi, Sichuan, Jilin, Shanxui, Hunan and
Inner Mongolia Provinces. Branches were opened at a much faster pace than
originally planned, because many provincial governments and PCBC branches were
eager for CIB to operate in their areas. However, such a high rate of
expansion placed a great strain on CIB's Head Office, and therefore CIB has
decided to pause in its further branch network expansion in order to
consolidate and complete the organization of its existing network. The
existing network has strengthened its staffing and improved its capacity and
capability for project selection, appraisal and implementation.
59.       Training.  As most CIB staff were not previously familiar with
development banking, training has been a major and critical activity. The
Economic Development Institute (EDI) has given four five-week development
banking courses, primarily for CIB and PCBC staff, and a further one is
planned for 1987. CIB has also sent staff to short-term banking seminars
overseas and to long-term domestic training in finance and English language,
and has conducted a dozen in-house seminars focused on project appraisal
techniques. CIB has appointed a training officer to coordinate its training
program, and has selected staff from CIB and from MOF's institutes of finance
and banking to work as a part-time team of trainers to raise the quality of
CIB's in-house training, especially at the branch level. CIB's in-house
training program for 1986 and 1987 will include several seminars per year on
Project appraisal, supervision, Accounting, etc., some to be given at the Head
Office and others for and at specific branches. CIB also needs to provide
specialized training to its more experienced staff. To this effect,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that CIB would send selected
staff for long-term academic and operational training overseas according to a
long-term training program acceptable to the Bank; an understanding was
reached that some 30 CIB staff would receive such training during the period
1986-1990. However, because CIB cannot at present release a large number of
its more 'txperienced staff due to their relative scarcity and heavy workload,
CIB would start this training program gradually in 1986 by sending 4 of its
staff for long-term training overseas; the foreign exchange costs would be
financed from the $300,000 training component under CIB I.
Operating Policies
60.       In accordance with previously agreed Policy and DeveLopment Strategy
Statements, CIB continues to focus on relatively small- and medium-sized
modernization projects of existing state or collective enterprises. In view
of the tighter foreign exchange situation currently experienced by China, CIB
has recently begun to give preference to export-oriented projects, in
particular in provinces with small foreign exchange earnings. Sectoral
emphasis remains on light industries, but CIB has been expanding its scope to
include chemicals, machinery, electronics, building materials, metallurgy,
etc., in accordance with the demand for loans. CIB lends local currency only
in conjunction with foreign exchange, and only for fixed investment; its
borrowers obtain the necessary complementary working capital loans from
ICBC. An assurance obtained under CIB II was repeated under the proposed



- 20 -
project that CIB would exchange views with the Bank/Association on any
proposed changes in its Charter, Supplementary Regulations, Policy Statement,
Development Strategy Statement or Lending Procedures.
61.       Interest Rates.  CIB will increase its interest rate for foreign
exchange loans from 8% to 8.5% p.a. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that CIS will onlend proceeds of the loan/credit at an interest
rate of 8.5% p.a. This new interest rate would enable CIB to maintain its
competitiveness with BOC (para. 48). As world interest and inflation rates
have fallen over the past two years, CIB's rate is now less out of line with
international rates, and should be positive in real terms over the life of
CIB's loans, given projected world and domestic inflation rates. In 1985, CIB
adjusted its lending rates for local currency loans from 3.6% to the new
structure of domestic interest rates for modernization loans which range from
7.92% to 10.8% p.a., depending on maturity (para. 49). With an average of
about 91 p.a.; these rates are also expected to remain positive in real
terms. China's inflation rate was about 3Z p.a. in 1981-1984, about 9% in
1985, and is projected to range between 7.0 and 7.7% p.a. in the coming 5
years. Assurances obtained under CIB II were reconfirmed that: (a) CIB would
afford the Bank/Association an opportunity to exchange views with it prior to
making any change in its interest rates; (b) CIB would inform the
Bank/Association promptly after changes in the foreign exchange lending rates
of other Chinese banks; (c) the Government would take into account the impact
on CIB's operations in determining the foreign exchange lending rates of other
Chinese banks; and (d) from time to time at the request of any party, the
Government and CIB would exchange views with the Bank/Association on such
impact and on the interest rates to be charged by CIB in its lending opera-
tions in light of CIB's cost of funds and profitability and of movements in
interest and inflation rates in China and internationally.
62.       ?-.iject Selection, Appraisal, and Supervision.  With the help of
Chinese experts and the Bank, CIB prepared an Industrial Projects Appraisal
Manual which has been used by its branches. This manual has been well
received by various government agencies in China and is being used in some of
China's other banks. The manual and the instructions for its use were
revised, based on CIB's experience to date, and reissued in November 1984.
CIB's staff h-vve been conscientiously applying the manual in their appraisal
work and are using it to screen out projects that appear unsuitable -- some
20-30% of :he applications. On the basis of extensive factory visits, Bank
missions have concluded that most projects selected by CIB have been good.
The quality of appraisal reports from the more experienced branches has been
improving, but is still uneven in the newer CIB branches. The Head Office has
sent about half of the reports it received back to the branches for revision,
and strives to impose consistent quality controls. With the staff strengthe-
ning achieved in 1984 and 1985, the proposed further training and continued
close Bank supervision, further improvements are expected. CIB will supervise
these and future subprojects on the basis of its Project Supervision Manual,
which was issued in 1983. CIB is giving priority to supervision work, which
is done by the branches but overseen by the Head Office's Supervision
Department.
63.       Subloan Repayments.  The maturity of CIB's loans does not exceed
twelve years, and is normally seven years or less, including a grace period of
two to three years. Shorter loan periods are often used by CIB because of the



- 21 -
high financial profitability of most industries to which CIB lends. The grace
and repayment periods are based on the incremental profits and depreciation
allowances which will be used to service the loans. If any enterprise does
not have sufficient retained foreign exchange for interest and principal
payments on its foreign exchange loan from CIB, the supervisory agencies and
local government will provide the balance, or the enterprise will have to
purchase it. An assurance obtained under CIB II was reconfirmed that the
Government would enable enterprises to obtain the foreign exchange needed for
payments to CIB.
64.       Accounting System and Audit.  CIB's accounting manual, incorporating
the Bank's comments and based on Western accounting principles, was issued in
January 1983. China's accounting and audit profession is not well developed,
and the Bonk is helping to provide technical assistance to build up the
capability of the newly established State Audit Administration. CIB's
accounts will continue to be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank/Association, and the audit report will be submitted to
the Bank/Association within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
CIB's 1983 and 1984 accounts were audited by the China Consultants of
Accounting and Financial Management, an independent firm of professional
auditors and accountants. These audits were performed satisfactorily and on
schedule. The auditors' opinion on CIB's accounts for both 1983 and 1984 was
unqualified.
Operations, Finances, and Outlook.
65.       Operations.  In 1983 and 1984, CIB approved a total of $116 million
foreign exchange loans and Y 305 million local currency loans. CIB's activity
more than doubled in 1985, with total approvals of about $217 million in
foreign exchange and Y 346 million in local currency. Approvals under CIB I
and II totalled $238.4 million for 211 subprojects, of which 131 were subpro-
jects below the free limit established for each CIB branch. Disbursements,
after a slow start in 1983 and 1984, accelerated markedly in 1985 and reached
a cumuLative total of $75.3 million by January 31, 1986. CIB has also used
its own resources to approve 52 projects for a total of $31 million and
Y 39 million (para. 66). The approved subprojects cover a wide range of manu-
facturing subsectors of light industry; textiles and clothing were the predom-
inart subsector with a share of 29Z in number and 25Z in amount, followed by
metal products and light machinery (17% and 20% respectively), chemicals and
pharmaceuticals (9% and 16%) and consumer electronics (12% and 92). Of the 8
provincial branches active under CIB I and the 19 active under CIB II, the
Jiangsu branch has been the most active, with an overall share of 27% of total
commitments, followed by Tianjin (18%),  iebei (12%), and Shanghai (9%); the
subprojects from the well-established.branches and industrial centers such as
Tianjin, Shanghai and Hebei have been significantly larger than in other
provinces. Most sub-borrowers were state enterprises, with a few urban
collectives. The projected economic rates of return range from 12% to 67%
p.a., and the financial rates of return to the enterprise from 13% to 53Z
p.a. Most of the subprojects have a high marginal capital-labor ratio,
largely due to the pervasive overstaffing of existing enterprises (so that
little additional labor is needed) and also due to concerns with the quality
of output on the part of exporting enterprises, which they feel can best be
ensured by more automated processes. Most CIB subprojects introduced advanced
technology, and a number of them have promoted exports, conserved energy and
reduced pollution as well.



- 22 -
66.       Resources and Financial Position (see Annex IV, Table 1).  Of its
Y 400 million paid-in share capital, CIB used Y 28 million to purchase $10
million from the Government as a revolving fund for its foreign currency
lending. In 1983, CIB borrowed also Y 140 million from PCBC, and with it
bought a further $50 million in foreign exchange, of which $10 million was
added to its revolving fund. It borrowed again in 1984 from PCBC Y "84.5 mil-
lion (at 1.8Z p.a. and a term of 15 years with one final balloon payment) with
which it bought $100 million in foreign exchange from BOC. Because 100Z cash
deposits are required by BOC in many provinces to open CIB's Letters of Credit
for foreign suppliers, CIB has a need to establish revolving funds in several
branches for the purpose of facilitating subproject disbursements. As a
result, about $80 million of the purchased $150 million have been tied up in
advance payments for subprojects and in provincial revolving funds; the other
$70 million have been committed for non-Bank financed projects and for
anticipated special investments. Moreover, in order zo avoid total disruption
of its operations after exhaustion of CIB II funds, CIB had to continue its
approvals at a reduced scale during the last months of 1985. By end of 1985,
CIB had thus uncommitted approvals in foreign exchange totalling about
$31.3 million against available secured resources of $17.6 million, leaving a
resource gap of $13.7 million at the approval level. The proposed loan will
contribute to cover this gap. CIB has also by end of 1985 a resource gap of
Y 238.4 million in loca'l currency on an approval basis. On the other hand,
since most of the approved subprojects are still in an early phase of imple-
mentation and disbursement, CIB's loan portfolio represents only about 56% of
its total assets which are in majority in liquid form as cash or bank deposits
earning most of CIB's income. The net income after taxes of CIB reached
Y 5.7 million in 1984 and Y 17.4 million in 1985, representing respectively
1.4% and 4.3% of equity. CIB's long-term debt to equity ratio was 1.2:1 by
end of 1984 and 1.5:1 by end of 1985, well within the 5:1 limit convenanted
under CIB I and II. Assurances were obtained that CIB would continue to
maintain a long-term debt to equity ratio of no greater than 5:1. CIB has no
debt service obligations until 1987. The overall financial position of CIB is
robust.
67.       Prospects and Projections (see Annex IV, Table 2).  CIB has built up
a large pipeline of 118 projects totalling $294 million, of which approxi-
matelv 21% are for textiles, 20% for consumer goods light industries, 18% for
steel industry, 11% for electronic industries, 7% for machinery industry, 7Z
for chemicai. industries and 16Z for other subsectors. In the light of the
present subproject pipeline, the demand for CIB financing expressed in the 19
provinces and municipalities covered by its branch network, and CIB's
absorptive capacity, CIB and the Bank estimate that its foreign exchange loan
approvals would be close to $200 million in 1986 and increase afterwards by an
average 11.5% p.a. over 1987-1990 to reach $310 million in 1990; its local
currency loan approvals would increase by an average 10.7% p.a. from Y 400
million in 1986 to Y 600 million in 1990.
68.       Taking into account the present resource gap of about $14 million
(para. 66) and its anticipated operations for 1986, CIB needs to secure about
$215 million for its foreign exchange approvals during 1986. CIB received from
MOF and other concerned authorities the authorization to borrow up to $50
million on the international capital market; a first borrowing of $30 million
is being arranged with a Japanese bank, and CIB has contacted a number of
foreign commercial banks to borrow the balance of $20 million in the first



-23-
half of 1986. This resource mobilization operation, the first one to be
undertaken by CIB outside the Bank Group, the proposed CIB III credit/loan,
expected loan repayments of $10 million, the reallocation to lending purposes
of about $20 million from CIB's revolving funds, and if necessary additional
borrowing abroad in the second half of 1986, constitute CIB's short-term
financing plan to fund its operations during the year 1986.
69.       In the longer term, CIB plans to make foreign exchange approvals
totaLling $455 million during the 2-year period mid 1986-mid 1988 and
$715 million from mid-1988 to end 1990. Collection of sub loan repayments
would amount to $72 million and $355 million respectively during these two
periods; by improving the management of its cash resources, CIB could also
make available for project lending after mid-1986 some $20 million of its own
resources presently tied up as working capital and revolving funds. The
balance of foreign exchange resources would have to be borrowed on the basis
of a sound long-term financial plan. With respect to local currency
resources, CIB's current resource position is also tight but can be more
easily managed by raising local resources when needed for disbursements. To
meet these disbursement needs until mid-1988, CIB will have to raise some
Y 600 million, in the form of loans (most likely from PCBC) and mainly paid-in
capital from the Government.
70.       CIB's financial position is projected to remain exceptionally
strong, due to its large equity base and low loan default risk (Annex IV,
Tables 3 to 6). Its total assets would increase from Y 1.26 billion by end of
1985 to Y 3.5 billion by end of 1988 and Y 4.9 billion by end of 1990; the
share of loan portfolio would increase from 56% in 1985 to 81% in 1990. Due
to the increase of its lending rates (para. 61), gross revenue would increase
from 4% of total assets in 1985 to 1.SX in 1989 and 1990, and financial
expenses from 1.65Z in 1985 to 4.5Z in 1989 and 1990, yielding a wider spread
of 2.8-3.0% in 1986-1990 sufficient to cover administrative expenses,
constitute provisions and generate a reasonable profit margin. On this basis,
net income would increase from Y 17.4 million in 1985 to a peak of Y 43.1 mil-
lion in i987, and then decline to Y 29.5 million in 1988 and Y 39.5 million in
1990 after the expiration in 1988 of CIB's five year income tax ho'iday. The
return on equity would peak at 7.3Z in 1987 and decline to about 3.9% after-
wards. CIB's long-term debt would increase from Y 635 million by end 1985 to
Y 2.65 billion by end 1988 and Y 3.85 billion by end 1990. Due to the fore-
seen addition of paid-in capital, the long term debt to equity ratio would
peak at 3.7:1 in 1990 and remain well within the covenanted 5:1 limit. CIB's
debt service coverage ratio will remain very comfortable, declining from 12.4
in 1987 to 10.1 in 1990.
71.       An understanding was reached during negotiations that CIB will
borrow $50 million from non-Bank Group sources in the first half of 1986. CIB
has also been requested to prepare an adequate long-term financing plan
designed to cover CIB's foreign exchange needs over the period mid 1986-mid
1988 so that a recurrence of negative resource positions and the interruption
of its lending operations can be avoided in the future.
The Proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit
72.       Amount and Maturity.  The proposed interim loan/credit would be for
$100 million, based on CIB's short-term needs and absorptive capacity for the



- 24 -
first half of 1986, with a plan for other foreign exchange to be raised by
CIB. The Bank loan wouLd be $75 million equivalent and the IDA credit
SDR 22.80 million ($25 million equivalent). State Council approval of the
Development Credit Agreement and Loan Agreement would be a condition of
loan/credit effectiveness. The CIB III funds are expected to be committed to
some 80 subprojects representing 6 months of CIB's operations; the credit
would be committed first. The terminal date for submitting subprojects would
be June 30, 1987. Back-to-back repayment of the subloans and the Bank loan
would not be appropriate because the subloans would have usually short
maturities averaging about 5 years. Therefore, as for CIB I and CIB II, the
Bank loan would be of fixed amortization, on the standard country terms for
China, which are 20 years including five years' grace on principal. All of
the loan/credit would be for subprojects; CIB's technical assistance and
training needs over the period would be financed from CIB I (para. 59).
73.       Onlending Terms.  The Government would onLend both the loan and the
credit to CIB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank/Association, the signing of which would be a condition of loan/credit
effectiveness. As under CIB I and II, both IDA and Bank funds would be onlent
for 20 years including five years of grace, with CIB allowed to roll-over the
funds. The Government would charge CIB a fixed interest rate of 7.0% p.a.,
plus the Bank and IDA commitment charges. The Government would thus bear the
risk from the variable Bank interest rate, as under CIB I and II. Including
the commitment fees, the total cost of these funds to CIB would be about 7.2%
p.a., compared to its onlending rate of 8.5% p.a., leaving a net spread of
about 1.32 p.a.. By onlending to CIB proceeds of the loan/credit denominated
in US$ valued at the date of withdrawal, the Government would also bear the
foreign exchange risk between the US$ and (a) the currency pool index (for the
Bank loan portion) and (b) the SDR (for the IDA credit portion). These
arrangements have been maintained because it would be too complicated and
burdensome for CIB to pass these interest rate and foreign exchange risks on
to its subborrowers. As subloans would also be denominated in US$, valued at
the date of withdrawal, subborrowers would be taking any foreign exchange risk
between the US$ and the Yuan. This risk will be small, as most new
subborrowers are expected to undertake export-oriented projects (para. 60) and
to earn foreign exchange which they will use for repayment.
74.       Free Limit.  As under CIB II, two free limits would be set:  $2.0
million for branches agreed between CIB and the Bank/Association and $1.0
million for the other branches. Understanding was reached at negotiations
that branches receiving the higher limit would be those adequately staffed and
trained and which had consistently met reasonable appraisal standards, and
that the Shanghai and Tianjin branches which meet these criteria would have
the higher free limit. An estimated 40% of the subprojects by number and 70%
by amount would be above the free limits. The first three subprojects from
each new branch, regardless of size, would be subject to Bank/Association
approval. The aggregate free limit would be $30 million.
75.       Maximum Subloan Size.  CIB may onlend for individual subprojects up
to $15 million in foreign exchange, as per CIB's Development Strategy
Statement. This high limit reflects the fact that in general it is for the
larger of the medium-sized projects that CIB's appraisal is most valuable,
because these projects are more likely to involve major technology import,
serve nationwide or international markets which must be studied, and have many



- 25 -
linkages to other industries. However, the average subloan size is still
expected to be about $1.5 million.
76.       Procurement and Disbursement.  As under CIB I and II, individual
contracts of at least $3 million equivalent would be awarded after interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB), including prior Bank/Association review of
bid documents, unless CIB auid the Bank/Association agree otherwise. A
preference equal to 15Z of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Contracts below $3 million would be awarded after evaluation and comparison of
quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers. The existence
of adequate competition to help ensure reasonable prices would continue to be
examined as part of the review of all subprojects above the free limit. Only
3-5 contracts are expected to exceed $3 million. Disbursements would be made
for 100% of: (a) foreign expenditures on goods and services for subprojects,
and (b) the ex-factory price of locally-manufactured equipment for subprojects
under contracts procured through ICB. Disbursements for contracts at or above
$200,000 will be made against full documentation. Disbursements for contracts
less than $200,000 will be made against Statements of Expenditures, with the
full documentation held by CIB for review by Bank supervision missions.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1990. The disbursement
projections are at a slower rate for the initial two years than the disburse-
ment profile of DFC lending in the East Asia and Pacific Region, in view of
the general pattern of disbursement in China (para. 52), but the final years
of the profile are telescoped because the loan/credit is expected to be fully
committed in 1986, and disbursements would not extend for more than three
years beyond. In order to allow CIB to use more of its own working capital in
foreign exchange for lending purposes, and to facilitate project disburse-
ments, a Special Account to be maintained in US dollars with an authorized
allocation of US dollars equivalent of SDR 4.6 million would be established
under the loan/credit in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Applications for replenishment will be submitted quarterly or
when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50% of the initial deposit, whichever
comes sooner. This small amount is justified in view of CIB's large cash
resources in foreign exchange (para. 66). The Special Account and the
Statements of Expenditures will be audited separately from CIB's accounts.
77.       Benefits and Risks.  CIB is already having a positive impact on
China's industrial investmenL by selecting generally good projects and using
an improved project appraisal methodology. As CIB becomes involved in project
identification at an earlier stage, its contribution to project design will
also increase. Although some projects that CIB rejects may obtain finance
elsewhere, the general shortage of foreign exchange for investment, plus
Government efforts to hold down total investment, and the influence that CIB's
decision will have on other agencies, ensure that CIB's project selection will
help determine which projects should be undertaken.  There also remain long-
term prospects for major spillover effects, especially through improving the
project appraisal work of Chinese planning agencies and other banks. By
demonstrating that locally controlled projects can be designed and evaluated
from the national perspective, CIB could also give further impetus to
decentralization.
78.       In a narrow sense, the Project risk is low, because CIB has been
financing generally good subprojects, and the Bank will continue to review



- 26 -
carefully the bulk of CIB's sublending (paras. 62 and 74). However, the
project's success in its broader objective of introducing new project
appraisal methodology and resource-allocation approaches to China depends
largely on CIB overcoming its weaknesses in the critical areas of market
estimation and economic analysis of subprojects, and financial management and
resource mobilization. Continued Bank Group support is essentially for
building up CIB in these areas. Less tractable are longer-term risks related
to Government commitment to the economic reform framework within which CIB
operates, and to CIB itself. The path of reform in China, as elsewhere, has
not been without some difficulties, but the Government remains committed to
the process. Furthermore, the Government's commitment to CIB remains strong,
as indicated by the 1984 State Council circular to ministries and local
governments supporting an enhanced role for CIB.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed and loan and credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 11, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-27-                                               ANN-X I
Pgse I of 6
__E~~~~~~~~~W __                                st_
au (Uhma  I. we
otal.                            954.0      951.0      951.0
AMCOL701PAL                      325A       sma.o      3005.9
M aM           (as)                    *- .              *  00.0             an.3                    ioa.:
CSiLOfa'F OI ot. hia)             M.2.0      25.        Ia.9              ass.i                       A
rapn mawm smzum
titINATOU.1-TA CUWSNSS)  "51000.0   015160.0  1019102.0
0UMnMAM  ci oI teraL)              334 &    .       *    21.0              22n                      2S.9
p11M1 in 2U200 (MiL.)                                 142.3
Staftomash uuuu.ai  (m1lL)                            sf3.0
Pnaiari.us
M sQ. Ms.                        "A.Z       03         106.2             17.0                    20.9
Mn  S. M:. An. 1M               m1         210.0      260.3             3535 131.
vOPUuunmAi ST ITMO (XI
0-14 in                         30.9       374        32.0               334                     5.2
1544 ns                          5.a        57.2       63.1              59.                      5707
O3 am  am                         4.7        5.0        3.0               4.3                      3.5
OTaL                              1.1        2.2        1.7               2.0                      2.3
G.... 4.1                                                                                          4.1
cau Ran  am   1PUT5)               39.2       35.7       1.6               27.5                     30.1
-3 w          n am   U s)          23.      e             7.1              10.2                     9.
caSS intinc"  IA2                   2*14       2.3        1.0               1.7                      1.9
suMo. auwt (am)                   ..         ..
ur   CZ It aI     Mm              ..         ..        n.0o               'WA                     se.s
Lu oF FDm MO. a  Cin
(199-71-100)                       ..        100.0      123.0             31eI                     124.
vi cau  =mF  OF
CuAuL   (I W mqOm       s)       9O.6      10         119.J             106.3                    115.7
-rgS (ca. amR)                    3.0       5 .2       69.7              40.1          O     J
oF H315 AlCIn  Am Ipi           12.5 a     13.3       15.9              14                       14.1
azu (cU 1-4) US 2EI                12.5        U.S        2.0               7.3                     7.2
LinlUtfCI. AT 1UN1  (TUN)         41.0 f      60.9       67.1              60.5                    60.A
LWma   mW. mun cm  TS)           165.00 i      9.0       33.0              6.2                     6.9
TOL                              ..          ..        50.0                .2                   4*.0
n                                 .          ..         5.0              7.2                      57.4
A                                 ..         ..         o.0              34.                      37.1
ACCS TO nCfAZ  KOSAL
CZ OF POUAIN
OM                                ..         ..         ..                7J                     30.1
an1                               ..         ..         ..               Us                      52.9
iAL                               .          ..         *                 5.5                     U.7
FOPULAIW 32 iSTCZiS              1940.0 f   30.0 It  1740.0              3313.0                  7751.7
W. 1U  minim pus-               3530.0      2710.0     1710A .           440.7                   264.
TOM                            1040.0      760.0         .0            1039.2                   1112.1
VMS"                            210.0        ..       10.0              2".1                    431.4
REAL                          10140.0        ..      1020.              02                     25.9
amsse. M         miL On             ..         ..         ..               52.3                    41.1
ais  ns ot asoa
52*                               ..         ..         4.1...
Dua                               ..         ..         5.14..
A13352 30. Of BUSaMSUM
ma.                               ..        . ..-
uNR   9. of n25gsa
I0U                               ..         ..         .                  ..
a                                 ..         ..         .                  ..
lURSNSAS OF WhmLL    WMIS 5LST.
OTAL                             ..          ..
a                                 ..         ..         .                  ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
MI                       CN      T    u     S  a
awol~  19701 CM"&                    mu &a cMc               A a v*crnc
PRIORTs  20ThL                   109.0       110.0       110.0              92.6                     100.7
VAIS                    ..          ..        123.0              105.5                    104.4
3WAL3                  9..          ..         97.0               79.3                     97.2
U    a 1SAL                    21.0        2.0         35.0               31.3                     47.1
WAI                     ..          ..         46.0               40.3                     50.6
pawlsE                 2..          ..         2.0                21.9                     44.3
VOATl UI (CSO   1        )           ..          ..          2.2                3.2                     16.4
IWPIL-254  311
n3231u                            3..         53.0        25.0              53.0                      30.4
Cu U                               ..         22.0        16.0               17.                      22.2
mamma cAIIl!UU6ID mW                 ..          ..          0.2                                        I .9  10.1
SKO   UCUIIU              PI         ..         14.7       210.1              129.A                    172.9
n                    VW N            ..          0.6        55.5               195                      53.
INIUwMB  CISzLE   m
PM DIIW aZf                         ..          ..         53.                25.7                     65.3
c 1 AN    AT!hbKZCAPIL               ..          ..          ..                5.0                       3.A
TOaL uat nE  (tam)              321641.0   3B5A5.0   47062A.0
UISINE CUET)                      3B.3        36.0        37.3               33.2                     33.6
mzwuSIX ICNimn)                    ..          ..         6.9               69.6                      52.2
33311  CMt)                        ..          ..         1.7                15A                      17.9
IOT                               46.4        45.0        46.1              41.9                      36.9
WIS                              55.9        54.5        55.4               53.6                     50.3
Emma3                            537.0        35.0        35.1               29.1                     26.3
3CUGC   ll CI 31110                  0.9         1.0        o0                  1.0                      1.1
mnCER w muSS -
uuzuo n
U125Fis uIUmOLM                    ..          ..         12.5 Li             ..
31SW 200 o w l                     ..          ..         39.J                ..                      4.O
-Jll 201 o03 UG1 ..                            ..          6.5i               ..                       6.4
'1855? OT OF *IIWU                 ..     *-              13.4       .        .                       15.5
Lon (go   E CwXh
w                                  ..          ..          ..               133.9
RAL                                ..          ..          ..              111.6                     131.9
uDnam Um D
i1! cUsN N   CenW )
13                                 ..          ..          ..                 ..                     177.9
manL                               ..6..1.7                                                          164.7
snm mw. m  uuouiu
Immi MCOR Lon (1)
1                                  ..          ..          ..               4.6                       23.5
A                                  ..          ..          ..               51.7                      37.8
go g!    an&e for each lil-cator ar pop.letom-uulghemd arithemle memo. Cmuege of ceugtnlee
" the ludSnaer dopesde em eveL1 L1ty of dae ad is tot  allern..
fUlaee Du_ezula med. 'Dta for LOW19   refer to -w Yoar betoum  1959 anl 1961; Dmta for 1370" beto
1969 ml 1971s ao lia for aeet lbeelt Itumle" bertne 193  ml 1953.
&i   19641 Jd 2955.6  averae  /  1955-6   rqge; /f deoalr  ecer of veltrnn udiclum;  fL DNetribulim
il people ree  by 1emdmo   per capita lc.  79 dete;   1 190.
i. 1935



in *itttil 5               -       D-i  . -  unr-nhlM    sa.a
lIin  -_  ni              * . . --f  in   n        u  uu
A_= >. I_  _n;
.- i3 .- .-   L         .I- i . 3  - aft -    -  ,11   .
as -- i                                                                   w uu_taeu  -u=     Puttuitd -l in  -  t- -     .umuwusuau
-1-""~~~~~~~ ~ ",_ P.  aalpoa*e= -S~r d-o
_uSIal   iuuuftad in tIulun ti_n__    i_  tuutuuuI at ujt- -.                                              tt !t.....  p u ,  ,_ft Lie J. a d
I I--                         -.-I        - -n  Y  _                             3.u _       u
.-   -1 Wrong O- v-D.-Oft -8                                ti 333w   uss t5  fintmitinn  au"0   un.
*, J 13 -8 P-Wm PI *-al* -_t    _        E-"-     *0  I-IIl                  1- SW          t_ 8   'atu _       ,T -g    i-uf  Ii,p .a    it_
.ua.i tgsuu.   unu~~~~~~ tut  -   -              Si.;or. "au-att    -                                          "Iseau 
_aa  1 _ _'A_ "A _*_         ) 13-_   wl ". _-o aa-lm            __l_ p- Goa_l                     ' At                                .  s-UWE
pama      i  - -    L    5    LuM!Whi   IC tut                                P- i.  t3tom            Ir lh
gins  _lu nj guuiin ti_ tui utia  'LaWet u _t *ou_ti -a_ uuus.i                _mi ins*   gui 3.!5  P- .ag  ut  .51  sAw udn, "ft P 3 MM
_*_-  |e- a  n.uu  r2-3s~uu.  tt   -, Lu_a u-ge   iua                            uuus  ii|gata.s3 iait  - *uL ,s dui
u4 I i -u       uL      3 _ I.f.I PI-"3                          ft  -3    i -_   j -a -_    83  gui 3   gti p.3
1s-*nuusa   5. -N s    a u_   - u.a A    u                       i     0   1*1-   '   i *-  ua _3 St  i       u     tu_ i
- j._ns at. .4.. -(utud..Jwma)            p uuatu.e asutius ettuisut.                  '-A         ui In       s    t --tt n" --  _ t    _    _ P t.3 n-se i'iq`
1- 'I'  J- -oJ of P- ' -  WD-  *. J.    9 VJ. -- _ g.
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-lal*"-r *-r- aP-D op-w _A sN. ^_1_ 144-  ".                                                WS "   _n- T
ra_ y_ D-Da   al       u   u                 of- u   g    r 33iiq            .ft          i P-uslo gal-   nu SI aos.. --                n
_z_os61 _-ft aaawal _lmB-     fti-                             A~ .-Saa-. 1.                   3      opl..oo P-    I=u_
p- to v- %I  _F-    _ _ v n__"M - -Si                    -24 aaa-s- n up.u  -  u-t_ be utui p    i   Ii aim-_t
p a-IS g tuuai in              _         *-nmfl p u1tfl uuai.l   _uua 'a-l    .q -uu-A  -       w iij u53-             Lu aui @.uP P-       - 1 p-
IPaewti -                i  q  it    s t -u"n-touS.u.ualu                    u a       -  ita -             r     an  uiiuau 3. A    iPt- ..e
- *a.:nitt iu.           u          aaifi    a  -NtP               rs .e   i .u eu.a -  inn pa  L gut-ia  an t*
_ )_s_~~~fi     ut-ia en  |at ttuIt  flg                        _      -t ) *u_l -tn*z_|s-ai i _i 3i it 'itu-us  in...................... .3 it_S -u.-i-
* .03Ia-  in    iutu  na at_ - __.u_ _ot   SiUiue                            s.ana _ iE 3St  -ui.35a~- in| -tamu  ehfla _n  ,iuaa
*--ea nitlitu   *u  X-  ual     ru    tu  oa s "m  tie 'a                         -u rtta      -asn suso   mim  s            ,  Mtii. t
-,    n    f1     alt    '       tt - iti - .i _-s Ati_. *_a .--  Pu *s   s                                      tsa_. * i              3
b-* n'.us   - .udu- Nf  Xtun  sili. - s- ) .***atuat  33  n35 _ 5 i-s                                _ ._                                 usu
_n   ss _2a siu_W inn-p tiataat             in  n-*5sj1                           tauaigauii           lsd taSab  5l3urtui l  .~ul
in  _lttt    'tuiua  -     uui .303  53i -                                   'I'u _itit  li-su -int ttui -     gus ._ti  as ins- _-'isi
== in_s in lie  uie Stn anj pia p -.tatn n   t.a                    -i-i 30   .a  ._uu .tas-   -us-I* 5535............. _aut:  - u Ja.b_s us-.' n
-_-  *t ma                - s       -a s  Pu   -t-
wp _-        uw:                    nws-*                  g                       _oaa  .&-I sl**  sb P-n.    -.Il I.- 1. P-a-
isu ti   -i  uimae l'mi'-n b .... tneg m.9                                         d3a       as2.aiai      3iueuuduan  usf
I.ral  n ."*-at -                                   _            _n _ta-= au .ua_u _ *u F Fuat335t"a
-=aor Ift-3 1- C441 .%I  1t =s -   t usIaL a..    a    a- ;
'.3330                            itLi  Pu--  .uiiit - as_ t-w PuP  at@   t.5i t;am ;   ubut-fiL alm
_-   r         n    _        *s  N nSt  _- 3  r '-nasa
p-                 ad. _ats_ -                                         _-- -s"ti a                                          at .    u  u a-  tt    n    _t  .- - f   *  i
tuteg   -== ajg_ --   *.a  tu-u  usLuas Psnsusiti.
"`~~~~~~N`  ~a-Z_--w-P   * T F '     -P  __v _ -w ;FM                                             m
.    _    Imaad 1_*aa  - Al__a P __                                                                          _            d
aau fit b   _    -                                                        utjtu'ati   a.u          s - -. _u-u *All           I-nau si
= "Usa_      ^ _J .           __                            '_           _s-    _            .      J- . P.. ^aszW_      _        _s
_-ei. -i tn     Or n11saWl_ alt. a- titt in   iL3          3                      5333 n-         .Sn  p.a *ta    - tiu -ns au d -aC
ut u                      Pa _i-.t                                                                              1t in _-    q' 5-itqr 
_   -t_8b st q_ *lto ALs &__g_   _   *     |X-a;                               D_        l         =_ .  _ l  
,at    Wae  nj  wro   a -M smaraw "                                                a I .-i P-.      .flts    ing)l   - a - I .          f  t
_-W    _. *_u    -v_ _8_fi on       -it-        stw  -                                                'us._. _urn_  , i- -3 t       s--ut.s s  it_
utte    minaintami- 03uIS36 u t.   aunMgunim'tOnsn  t'mn'u-ut umvi
NP       - IA       "  tin    asug fsa 1ff- 7                                   n"u   t'sta   tiue-ItiulutlttaiuSt
tuita SI_ _mit-A Lu _tiLi lW _-_                              _i*13 in * gu_ l 'f I-  .li *t  *.i`5t s" q       *
.rnarat                      ii         t     g Ddtu -    is)  ute-  P-  nu3303
.4_X _A__,  _rr._aw@B_  ^s ^so Pt  _Xl                                         -1  -;
-,-; ,;." .S;I;;;IZL.. ^ l-s~~~~~~~~~~~~tmg urn  in  tn  't*  le""_ttuifi
-a-. in ti's as gO etinun sJt9j3utR-j atnaut                          A -I  st.-olu aM  a--II  3. uaed        -f
it  aus-  .".n                                                                    -     -                   X.i.uagnu
ntuatn  ~~u. ~     ~      ma it.sittant                 I so  M inti    ~ iatW-m.-tu -_ O tiuttat  Nit nu     u
as to                 3 P                          p uulli   gtitta is l.I -ulftt   i.fu        .
_ w           A-                                       in     in_uaa   S.                                                  fit atAt -a P. -_M
as. M v"tati    -_a s                 5u           ln *a  ti *indo L                                 D.u  tau 1a" -a a  1- "Pat
imisituini JoWl u-1- _i  PU4   -       5 n-  t"o3e                             No _- oat    uaI    t _i * iiu l 5t-itf-i_ j"'tat..38Iin '_
Luau. 3P   e          vtlW" -    I _  t * urn. --    %5" f                      Pa a    o,orl_ _t-   nI _ Pu a isti'.W  PuN       us Lu nuP
-a i. utwat us at-n'tf  _-_ tist- 03 Sit                                it6 -| gu-t  a  mt elaf    t-sa ad _i. tis quea
.e. as    a         s    a      .n N ;s"tJleetnauin                                   t         ._ _i .u  a us 
SI"  ttui-Ml  om"Itall at   ~    at"lhii SIt-1-"fitann-oa                  03 -usu   t-an Nu 'mu mites  3r 10a -`3  tutat
uistii  at ralm.n'  W i_tt  Am            - a    i _        -.M ltuu                       alat"--t-  aTO 'cuts t   t  .  PaIko       -a-w a
"O-1 PM "M  PM~~~~~~ -we - ~~Attue-sIl VtWu-ui  -a 0sin us a  PI --11
_TaRlb                              aroas        "Ai- . nC it  *-_t htiauum Stuntsfato __t. - it-_
-  le- in  i- i* t - patlut- aAtd.iaephlliahaiiittu3at                    asai        te       s t it         AIlan.   i n_l ftm-ti
in        t.       _       nut- *asum   _aniti. _at           t                    _siu sn in L      _0 iuu_n    t in  a _lI -__ _  a  m s." url
5if_  _&_ _ *l _ *_ ts3i;,,sua in  ti. wat -a _a t     t               as _   un tsu ssali  s          8  _ua  Vs -_   _          mid
at*Wi-I fit- _u_    st 4.,        _   *.-_n    'S t*-        * - in              it-p   l      .,.,o_asi   e   in A -        _,    _      *.
it uj " u    rati1iua1   ltS*   tatun   r          ',                     Iuuatida  3            It tita  -a I, -      --M
eta-ni - at nututte F  fiitttI~ geWMuA" ao tuiie                                                                  -ftu lastwin ema
9~~~~~~~~~~~- 3mm so sprA   A ll"pa-fopl     e-  -1-  -"..:
Imi                       M tut . A.   ga-I  ugalti -uLe a                                 uaIu J.  .1u1sAt uAA              u
utiane lusaltais tiguitil tnuu pean    'sit'  sem   Is opd-t s La                   st""vtIui8                -        insmp in    w 'tits
PM p3. Inww um  'wti    taI'mAn I-Sinnntis  et.it   1--P&G VW n ral                                      gumro  e  ma elm
inDo  iu. ft inii ainminstsa i  amlt- a atetiu                         -        uul" ulopa-nJ -u.s.c1 Pu ntSt-atn"
~~ sin stateta 'am  inaite 'nto~~~~z ms.                      'anis I-l Liutifl As   e sinW ."soitatM ma. su 
tiitiSat     -w  L gl.  niutlw -4omr                                                                Para ptJnnial            t   uta  n  li
..iataunm itoo'avr so 1itug I-Wms  - "I'gtuSF r mgi                         -m                                             nira -  inalSI6"1.t
et     etin '"mit  aM a in i"Na so       iuin flu o' 03's .atuu          "a flu * -u      - Pu ~it   "a mum   Sloniitmlow1 AA it- inr fit
u u aimo    us Pu Aullstin     IDA  ~  n  i   3in    st  st Mo   tiatait  ~I g t-8ets" -tat neatg"- us tnt flit a-M0ut  sot fi *anststl
~~  tt  am  us Wep -ui MmA-"       ~ a'sl ."    guw. on "u m Nu       in"eaui                  M t a e fltAims-"W us45 3.    i a- iu us99
.0 Pdftw"~  "   W"  ow"  al~  -on   -et ia tti~         o n   -n  P  ist,te  "uuuuuiiu   in  inuu   ou e CsIt sprW"Bi ---.fiNit
Las t-sou    fiana   it   a    net n-n it 'sitste em nie                 ftis  urn na   :.s ft"st   -.n    u-nt              a  lesn
9 ;O E *S@j
I 3MEV                                                                              6



-  30  -                                                       AMU  I
Page   of 6
Population    i  1,019 .lliLf Cmid-1983)
GNP per capitas $300 (1983)
CNIIA - CONirc INDIcANRus
AMount - 1984                               Annual growth raten (C)
(sillion US at                  Actual                                        Poiected
Indicator                    current pricev)Lb 1980   1981   1982   1983   194/a   1985         19R6      1987      1988     1989     1990
NATIOtAL ACCOUWS /a
Croeom a  etic product          281,260        6.6    4.9    7.6    9.6   14.0       10.4      6.8      6.8        6.8     6.8       6.8
Agriculture                   100,430      -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9        6.0       4.9      4.9        4.9     4.9       4.9
Industry                      125,010      12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6       14.0       7.7      7.7        7.7     7.7      7.7
Services                       55,820       8.2    8.9    3.3    6.5    7.7       10.0       7.9      7.9        7.9     7.9      7.9
Con_mptlon                      198,190        9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5       12.5      8.9      7.4        7.4     7.4       7.1
Gres invnv_tmnt                  83,100        1.3  -1.8   10.9   15.2   20.7        11.0      2.3      4.8        4.8     5.1       5.7
Exports of cm  /a                26,720       17.8   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0        3.0      8.9      8.8        8.8     8.8       B.8
Imports of CGSM 7r               26,750       16.1   -6.7   -5.7   28.1   25.9      43.1       0.0      5.8        5.9     6.0      6.2
Crome national savineg           85.870      -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   17.0         5.0      2.4      5.1        5.1     5.6      6.2
GDP deflator (1980 - 100)                    100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1    118.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    184.4
Exchang  rate (Tuan/USS)                      1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32       2.84     2.84     2.84      2.84     2.84      2.84
Shre of COP at market prices (S)                    Average annual incre oe CZ)
( at current pricee)                          (at constant 1981 price.)
1960   1970   1975   1980   198     1990       1960-70  1970-7S  1975-80  1980-84  1984-89  1989-98
Crome domastic product /a       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          6.1       5.2      6.6       9.0      7.3      6.6
Agricultur                     23.0   35.0   32.8   32.0   34.2   31.3          6.7       3.4      3.3     10.1       5.0      8.8
Industry                       48.0   41.0   45.8   48.0   47.9   49.9          7.8       7.5      9.9      9.4       8.6      7.4
Services                       29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   17.9   18.8          3.4       4.5      5.4      6.6       8.2      7.5
Consmptieon                      62.4   70.8   69.1   71.3   66.7   69.3          6.1       4.7      6.4       8.1     8.        6.8
GrcoM   inv eatent               37.8   29.2   31.1   30.0   34.4   30.9          9.5       6.9      9.7      11.3      5.1      6.1
Exports of CUNS                   4.8    2.8    5.3    7.1    7.7    8.5         -1.5      10.8      5.7      12.3      8.0      7.7
Iaports of CUPS                   5.0    2.7    5.5    8.4    8.8    8.6          1.2      13.9     13.0     12.2       8.4      7.4
Cross national avinga            37.7   29.2   30.9   28.9   33.6   30.7          9.1       6.7      7.2      14.0      4.8      6.2
As I of CDP
1957           1970            1980            1983            1
FUMLIC F7NNCE
Current   vees                                       28.7            29.6           30.6            27.8            26.7
Crrent expenditure.                                  15.1            15.7           23.1            21.6            20.1
Surplus (C) or deficte  C-)                         +13.6           413.9           +7.5            +6.2            +6.6
Aital expenditur                                     13.7            13.3           11.0             7.8             8.2
Foreign financing                                     0.7            n.a.            0.5             0.2             0.3
1960-70     1970-75      1975-80     1980-84      1984-89     1989-94
OTHER INOICITPRS
CUP growth rate tS)                                  6.1         5.1          6.4           9.2        7.2          6.6
CNP per capita growth rate (Z)                       3.5         2.9          5.2           7.9        6.1          5.5
Energ conuimption growth rate (C)                   -0.3         9.2          5.8           4.1        5.3          4.8
ic01                                                 3.3         4.7          5.1           3.8        4.0          4.6
arginel  savings rate                                0.4         0.4          0.3           0.3        0.2          0.3
Import el*ticity                                    0.2         2.7          2.0           1.4        1.1          1.2
/a Dtae for 1981 and 1982 are from differeat sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
Eaut Asia and Pacific Regioual Office
February 7. 1985



-31-                                                AN3l  I
P g 5 of 6
Populatio       1.019 nillion (mid-1983)
Cll par capita: 5300 (1983)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
mount - 1984                 nual growth rates (Z) (at constant prices)
(mltLon  15$ at                      Actual                        Projected
current prices)       1980    1981    1982       1983    1984    1985    1990
EXEL TRADE /a
ASen ;   me exports                     25,020            14.8    17.3       5.5    10.1    10.4       2.8      S.7
kIMry                                 11.410             1.5    -1.4       3.9    14.6      9.6      3.3      6.6
Manufactures                          13,610            32.2    36.2       6.6      7.0    11.1      2.4    10.4
Marchandis  importa                    26,740              6.8      7.2     0.2    29.7    22.3    47.1         6.2
Food                                  2,330              9.1    68.3    42.9   -30.9   -24.9    14.4          7.1
netroleum                                130            52.6   -65.5   130.0   -43.5    30.8         0.0    35.5
Machinery and equipment                8,420            16.4    19.0   -41.7    34.7    82.3    58.2          5.1
Others                                15,860             0.9   -13.5       7.1    71.7    16.8    19.9        6.3
ziport price lidex (1980-100)                            100.0   102.7    98.7    88.8    90.5    88.0   126.0
Import prico index (1980-100)                            100.0   104.5    89.2    76.7    78.4    77.3   112.0
Term of trade Index (1980-100)                           100.0    98.3   110.7   115.8   115.4   113.8   112.5
Composition of merchandise trade (Z)               Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prLces'                           (at constant prices)
1978       1981        1984      1990      1980-84           1984-89           1989-94
Exports                       100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0       10.8              7.9                7.6
Prlmry                       53.4       46.6        45.6       42.1        6.7              6.4                6.1
Usnufactures                 46.6       53.4        54.4       57.9       15.2              9.4                8.2
Imaports                      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      14.9               8.5               7.5
Food                         12.8       17.4         8.7        9.7       13.9              8.9                8.5
letrolemm                     0.5        0.4         0.5        0.9       13.0             17.2               16.1
Nmchinery and equipment      18.9       29.2        31.5       33.3       23.6             12.0                6.8
Others                       67.9       53.0        59.3       56.1      20.5               6.7                7.5
Share of trade with       Share of trade with       Share of trade with
industrial                developing               the USSR and
countries (Z)             countries (Z)          Eatern Europe (Z)
1977    1980    1983    1977    1980    1983    1977    1980    1983
DIRECOM OF TRADE
ixports                                 36.4    44.7    42.1    46.8    48.7    53.2    16.8           6.6      4.7
Imports                                 63.1    73.6    69.0    20.7    19.7    24.5    16.2           6.7      6.5
/a  Baed on custom  st tletice. Exports. f.o.b.. imports. c.i.f.
Ecat Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Novwenber 22. 1985



- 32-                                                AMUD I
Pase 6of 6
Population        1,019 million (mLd-1983)
CNP per capitat $300 (1983)
CHINA - HALANCE OF PAiNENTS, EXTER.AL CAPITAL AND DEST
(Millions of USS at current prices)
Actual                                   ProJeed
Indicator                                     1978    1979    1980    1981        1982       1983       1984       1985      1990
BALANCe OF PAYHENTS
Exports of goods *nd nonfactor service.  10.370  14,983  20.324  24,423    23.637    23J186    26.716           26.840   58.590
Of whlch:  Merchandiae f.o.b. /a          9.607  13,658  18,492  22.027    21,125    20,707    23,905         23,900   52,130
Imports of goods and nonfactor services  11.668  17,759  24,058  23,446    18.900    20,711    26.748           38.290   63,180
Of which:  Mrchoandise f.o.b. /a         10,745  16.212  22,049  21.047    16,876    18,717    23,890         35.150   56.950
Net factor Income from abroad                  -8     -77    -117    -200         452      1.253      1,620      1,140      -850
Net transfera                                 597      656     640      464       530        436        304        300       300
Current account balance                      -709  -2,197  -3,211   1,241       5,719      4,164      1,892    -10.010   -5,140
Prlvate direct lnvestemnt (net)                 -        -      57      265       430        636      1.100      1,650    1,950
Offleial grant aid (net)                        -        -      21      156       -44         75        137        140       140
lLT loans (net)                               549   3,815   1,069       310       301        927       -145          0    4.450
Dlabureemnts                                549   3,895   1,670   1.659       2,481      1.600       718         950    6.390
Amortizatlon                                  -       80     601   1,348      2,180        673       863         950    1,940
Other capital lb                             -628  -1,021   2.455       -47      -115    -1,672    -2,889        2,330         -
Cange In reserves
('_n lndlcating increase)                   788    -597    -391  -1,925    -6,291    -4,130          -95       5,893   -1,400
International reserves                      6.677   7,274   7,665   9,590    15.881    201011    20,106         14,220   23,500
Of which:  Cold Ic                        5,120   S,120   5,120   5..20       5.120      5,120     5.120       5,120    5.120
Reserves an months of imports                 6.2      4.5     3.5      4.8      10.1       11.7       9.1         4.5       4.2
IXTlUNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
Gross disbursement
Official grants
Concessional loans                                                                           .
DAC                                                                  ..
IDA,. 
Other
Nonconcessional loan.
Official export credits
IBRD
Other multilateral
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              549   4,364   5.433   5,261       5.562      6.397     6.340
Officl l
Private
undlabursed debt
Debt service
Total service payments
Interest                                                            .,
Payments as 1 of exports                    0.4     2.7      6.3     9.0       11.4       4.9        5.0
Average lnterest race of new loans (1)          -        -       -        -         -          -          -
Average maturity of new loans (years)           -        -       -        -         -          -          -
/a Deta for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources. ahe latter exclude
re-exports.
lb Includes net use of DHF credit and net flow of short-term capital.
T7r Valued at US$402/troy ounce.
7- Excludes short-term loans (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacific RPglonal Office
November 22. 1985



33                                               ANN Ul
SrATUS OF SAN_ 030  OPSTIONS IT TNl  PEOPLE'S RZEPULIC 0F CUIMA
A. TrATUNI OF U41K LOaNS AND XDA CREDXTS
(as of September 30. 1985)
Loan or                                                                               US$ million
Credit                                                                        Aount (lor cancollation)m
Nmber   Tear  Borrower                      Purpose                            asnk    ID      U ndiburend
202111167    1981  People's Republic of China  Undverelty Deelopment              100.0   100.0        24.6
1261    1982  People's Republic of Cbinna  norh Chini  Plain Agriculture       -      60.0        16.8
2207    1982  People's Republic of China Three Ports                         69.0       -         44.0
1297    1982  People's Republc of China Agric. Education & Research           -      75.4       la 1
2226/1313    1982  Peoplo's Republic of Cbina  Industrial Credit                  60.6    30.0        37.8
2231    1983  People's Republic of China Deqing Petrolem                     162.4      -        91.8
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Thonguen-lueliu Petrolem          100.8       -        79.1
226111347    1983  People's Republic of Chine  Ueilongjiang Land Rclamation       25.3    45.0         30.8
1411    1983 People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University             -      85.0       76.9
1412    1983  People'* Republic of China Technical Cooperation                 -      10.0        7.5
1417    1984 PeopIl's Republic of China  Rtbber Development                    -     100.0       52.8
2382    1984  People'. RepubLic of Chine  labugo Hydroelectric               145.4      -        139.4
2394    1984  People's Republic of Chin. Railway                            2sf 0       -        126.1
1462    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                                50.0       34.2
1472    1984  People's Republic of China Rural Reath & Medical Educ.           -      85.0       67.1
2426    1984  People's Republic of Chink Karamay Petroleum                   ".5        -        94.6
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of China Second Industrisl Credit           105.0    70.0       158.7
2444/1500    1984  People's Republic of Chnaa  Second Agricultural Education      45.3    23.5         54.6
1516   1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research          -      25.0       19.2
1551    1985  People's Republic of China  Second tniversity Developnt          -      145.0     140.3
2493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                      117.0       -        117.0
2501/a  1985 People's Republic of Chin  Changeun (Luan) Coal Mining          126.0      -        126.0
15577S  1985  People's Republic of Cbina  Seeds                                -      40.0       40.0
15587;g 1985  People's RepubLic of China  Rural Water Supply                   -      80.0       80.0
2539/15947Td  1985  People's Republic of China Righway                            42.6    30.0        72.6
25407  1985  Peopla's Republic of Chine  Second Railway                     235.0       -       235.0
25417f  1985  People's Republic of China Fertilizer Rehabilitation and       97.0       -        97.0
Eneray Saving
1605/L  1985  People's Republic of China Forestry Development                  -      47.3       47.3
2579/1606*7  1985 People's Republic of China  PFibihang-Chaohu Area Development  17.0    75.0         92.0
25807bO  1985  People's Republic of China Weiyuan Ca. Field Technical        25.0       -        25.0
A0iestance
Total                                                                          1,772.9  1,176.2    2.246.3
Total now held by lank and IDA                                                  1,772.9  1176.2
Total Undisbursed                                                               1,452.3   794.0
U. STATEMENT OF IrFC INvESTENTS
(as of September 30. 1985)
AMount In US$ milllon
Year   Obligor                                    Type of buminess              Loan    lEuity      Total
1985/1i  uangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.      Automobile                      15.0      2.0        17.0
Total Cross Comitents                                                              15.0      2.0       17.0
Lese cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                                               -        -          -
Total Cositmnts now held by IFC                                                   15.0      2.0        17.0
Total Udiasburrd                                                                   15.0     2.0        17.0
/a  Become effective on October 31. 1985.
7i  Become effective on October 24. 1985.
7; Become effective on November 13, 1985.
7id  ecem  effeCtive on Deember 4. 1985.
7   3ecome effective on November 22. 1985.
ecane effective on December 18, 1985.
7    ecoms  effective on November 26, 1985.
N7 Not yet effective.
7!  Sgoed on October 16. 1985.
Notes:  (1)  Subsequent to tew above date of Part A, a credit of SDR 84.0 million (S90 million equivolent)
for the Second Rural Credit Project wes approved December 17, 1985 and signed January 3, 1986.
(2) The status of T'1e projects listed in Part A in described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financal projects in execution. wbich is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT (CHINA INVESTMENT BANK III)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         one month
(b)  Project prepared by:                       Bank
(c)  First mission:                             November 1985
(d)  First presentation to Bank/Association:  October 1985
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:            November 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                January 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             April 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Speclal Conditions
(a) CIB lending rate to be at least 8.5Z p.a. (para. 61); and
(b) Consultation on interest rates (para. 61).



- 35 -                            ANNEX-V
Table 1
CHINA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Resource Situation as of December 31, 1985
Exchange rate $1 - Y 3.15
Foreign       Local
currency     currency      Total
($ mln)     (Y mln)
Resources
Capital reserves                              12.3         376.4       415.1
Borrowings:
IBRD                                       245.0            -        771.R
PCBC                                       140.0          29.7       470.7
Other                                         -             -           -
Total Resources                         397.3         406.1     1,657.6
Uses
Loans outstanding                             131.1        318.3       731.3
Equity participations                           1.3          1.5         5.6
Fixed assets                                    -            1.4         1.4
Allocation for Shanghai
leasing                                       -           10.0        10.0
Working capital                               80.0            -        252.0
Total Uses                              212.4         331.2     1,000.3
Resources available for
disbursement                                 184.9          74.9       657.3
Less undisbursed
commitments                                 (167.3)        (86.9)     (613.9)
Resources available for
Commitment                                    17.6         (12.0)       43.4
Less uncommitted approvals                      (31.3)      (226.4)     (325.0)
Resources available for
new approvals                                (13.7)       (238.4)     (281.6)



-36 -                                   ANME IV
Table 2
CHINA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Actual and Projected operations Table. 1983-1990
($1 - Y 3.15)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990
Approvals
Local currency      165.2     139.0     346.1    400.0    460.0    500.0    560.0    600.0
Foreign currency    139.4    185.4    683.6    630.0    724.5    787.5    882.0    976.5
(USS million)        (49.8)    (66.2)   (2x7.0)   (200.0)   (230.0)   (250.0)   (280.0)   (310.0)
Total          304.6    324.4   1,029.7   1,030.0   1.184.5   1,287.5   1,442.0   1,576.5
Commitments
Local currency       76.1     188.1      159.7    380.0    430.0    480.0    530.0    580.0
Foreign currency     48.7     231.0     635.6    636.3       677.3     756.0    834.8    929.3
(USs million)        (17.4)    (82.5)   (201.8)   (202.0)   (215.0)   (240.0)   (265.0)   (295.0)
Total          124.8    419.1      795.3   1,016.3   1,107.3   1.236.0   1.364.8   1.509.3
Disbursement
Local currency       33.7      80.2     223.1    280.8    380.9    437.5    487.5    530.0
Foreign currency     10.9      52.9     259.8    442.6       625.9    682.6      755.4    837.6
(US$ million)         (3.9)    (18.9)   (111.6)   (140.5)   (198.7)   (216.7)   (239.8)   (265.9)
Total.          44.6    133.1      482.9    723.4   1,006.8   1,120.1   1,242.9   1,367.6
Loan Repayments
Local currency        4.8      10.1       3.8       37.6      51.3      91.5    185.5    302.1
Foreign currency       -        1.7       8.4      31.5       97.3     235.3     423.0     569.2
(USS million)           -       (0.6)     (2.7)    (10.0)    (30.9)    (74.7)   (134.3)   (180.7)
Total            4.8      11.7      12.2      69.1      148.6    326.8    60e 5       871.3
Loan Portfolio
Local currency       28.9      99.0     318.3    543.2    872.8   1,218.8   1.520.8   1,748.7
Foreign currency     10.9      60.5    389.1      726.1   1,254.6   1,701.9   2,034.3   2,302.7
(USS million)         (3.9)    (21.6)   (131.1)   (230.5)   (398.3)   (540.3)   (645.B)   (731.0)
Total           39.8    159.5    707.4   1,269.3   2.127.4   2,920.7   3,555.1   4,051.4



-37 -                                            ANNKX
Table 3
CHINA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJF.CT
China Investment Bank
Actual and Pro4ected Income Statement. 1984-90
Actual                       Projected (S1-Y 3.15)
1984      1985            1986    1Q87    1988    1q89    1990
(Prelim)
Income
Interest Income from Loans
Local currency                2.3       14.4           38.n    63.7    94.1   123.3   147.1
Foreign currency              1.8       16.2           46.0    81.9   123.8   15R.1   184.3
Subtotal                 4.1       30.6           84.0   145.6   217.9   281.4   331.4
Interest Income on Deposits
Local currency                5.8        3.7            2.2      1.6     1.1      1.1     1.3
Foreign currency              5.3        R.9            8.1     9.1    10.5    13.4    16.3
Subtotal                11.1       12.6           10.3    10.7    11.6    14.5    17.6
Other Income                     -         0.1                 -        -            -       -
Total Income            15.2       43.3           94.3   156.3   229.5   295.9   349.0
Expenses
Financial expenses
Local currency intereet       3.5        7.7           16.8    21.1    27.6    36.3    44.,
Foreign currency interest   4.2          9.3           29.6    64.9   103.0   13R.0   166.0
Foreign currency fees          -         0.R            3.8     6.3      5.7      5.0     2.5
Subtotal                 7.7       17.8           50.2    92.3   136.3   179.3   213.4
Administrative and other        1.6        3.7            R.1    11.4    15.9    22.3    31.2
Provisions for
doubtful debts                 -         2.7            3.2     4.3      4.0      3.2     2.5
Depreciation and
amortization                   -         0.1            0.1     n.1      0.1      0.1     .1
Total Expenses           9.3       24.3           61.6   10R.1   156.3   204.9   247.2
Profit before tax                 5.9       19.0           32.7    4R.2    73.2    91.n   101.R
Taxes other than Income Tax       0.2        1.6            2.8      5.1     7.7    10.0    14.0
Net profit before income tax    5.7         17.4           29.9    43.1    65.9    81.0    87.8
Income tax                         -          -              -        -     36.0    44.6    48.3
Net Income               5.7       17.4           29.9    43.1    29.5    36.4    39.5



- 38-                                       ANN_E
CHINA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1984-90
Actual                      Projected ($1-Y 3.15)      _
1984      1985          TM       1Val    1988    1989    199U
(Prelim.)
Sources
Net income before tax          5.9      17.4           29.9    43.1    65.5    81.0    87.8
Add: Loan loss and other
provisions               -         3.1            3.2     4.3     4.0     3.2     2.5
Depreciation and
amortization           -         0.1           0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1
Subtotal              5.9       20.6          33.2    47.5    69.6    84.3    90.4
Paid in capital                 -         -              -    150.0   150.0   100.0       -
Domestic borrowing           283.5        -           200.0   100.0   150.0   200.0   200.0
IBRD loans                    55.2     181.3          321.3   441.0   494.6   403.2   346.5
Other external loans            -         -           108.7   126.9    90.7   104.9   104.0
Subtotal              338.7      181.3         630.0   817.9   885.3   808.1   650.5
Loan collections:
Local currency              10.0      38.1           37.6    51.3    91.5   185.5   302.1
Foreign currency             1.7      25.4           31.5    97.3   235.3   423.0   569.2
Subtotal                11.7      63.5           69.1   148.6   326.8   608.5   871.3
Net Working Capital           (0.4)     37.2           58.8      -       -       -
Total Sources          355.9     302.6          791.1 1,014.0 1,281.7 1,500.9 1,612.2
Uses
,-O-an Disbursements:
Local currency              80.2     251.0          280.8   380.9   437.5   487.5   530.0
Foreign currency            52.9     353.d          442.6   625.9   682.6   755.4   837.6
Subtotal               133.1     604.0         723.4 1 006.8 1,120.1 1,242.9 1,367.6
Repayment of local 1Oan           -       22.0             -       -       -       -        -
Repayment of foreign loan         -         -              -     15.8    39.4    63.0    94.5
Fixed asset purchase             0.4       1.1            0.4     0.4     0.4     0.4      0.4
Investments                      1.8       3.5             -       -       -       -        -
Taxes                            0.2        -              -       -     36.0    44.6    48.3
Other                             -        2.0             -       -       -       -        -
Subtotal                2.4       11.6           0.4    16.2    75.8   108.0   143.2
Total Uses             135.5     632.5          723.8 1,025.0 1,195.9 1,350.9 1,510.8
Surplus (deficita)             220.4    (329.9)          67.3    (9.0)   85.8   150.0   101.4
Cash and Bank balances         730.7     400.8          468.1   459.1   544.9   694.9   796.3



- 39 -                                                 ANNEX IV
CHINA
TRIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Rank
Balance Sheet. December 3!, 1984-90
CT million)
Actual                            Projected    (S1 - T 3.15)
1994        I9Kn                1950      1551       1955       1989      1q90
(Prelim.)
Assets
Currnt
Ta=r- Local                               296.7         65.R              12R.2       86.6      63.3       R7.2       84.7
- Foreign                           434.0        335.0              339.9      372.5     481.6      607.7      712.6
Subtotal                             730.7        400.8              46R.1      459.1      544.0     694.0      796.3
Current maturity of loans
LOCAl                                      26.n         35.3               51.3      q1.5      185.5      302.!        40
Foreign                                     5.6        35.4               in1.7     225.0      3fi.n      537.8       6n
Subtotal                              31.6         70.7              153.0      316.5 5i 1.5         R3q.q       Ino
Other receivables                             0.4         82.5                R.4        R.4       R.4        8.4        R.4
Total current Assets                 762.7        554.0               629.5     7R4.n   1.134R   1.543.2   1,R04.7
Long-ter
,oans:  Local currency                     q9.n       318.3               543.2     R72.R   1,21R.8   1 520.R   1,748.7
Foreign currency                  hn.5        380.2              726.1   1,254.7   1,702.n   2,n04.4   2,302.7
Less:  Loan losa  provisions                 -          (2.7)              (6.3)    (10.6)    (14.6)    (17.8)    (2n.1)
Current maturities term loans   (31.6)         (70.7)            (153.0)   (316.5)   (5R8.5)   (830.9)   (100)
Net Long-term Loan Portfolio         127.9        634.1            1,110.0   1,ROnn4   2 324.7  23697.5   3,031.1
Equity and other investments                  3.9          5.3              102.8     102.8      102.8      102.R      102.8
Fixed assets (net)                            0.4          1.5                I.0        1.1       1.6        1.0        2.2
Total Long-term Assets               132.2        640.9            1,213.8   1,904.5   2,42.l1   2,R02.2   3,136.1
Other Assets                                              62.5
Total Assets                         Rq4,0      1,257.5            1,843.3   2,688.5   3,563.Q   4,345.4   4.s4n.R
Liabilities
Current Payables                              n.1         78.7               39.n      39.0       39.0       3q.0       39.0
Current portion of debt                        -            -                15.8      39.4       63.n       q4.5      94.5
Subtotal Current Liab.                 0.1         78.7               54.R       78.4      102.n      133.5     113.5
Lonr-term:  Local borrowing                 423.5        42n.0              65fi.6    756.6      906.6   1,106.6   1,3n0.6
IERD borrowing                  60.4        215.1              541.R        2.R.  1.46Q.5   1,856.9   2,187.7
Other external borroving          -            -               108.7     210.8      279.n      336.7      361.R
Subtotal Long-term Debt              483.9        635.1            1,307.1   1,050.2   2,659.1   3,300.2   3,R9i.1
Less current maturities                        -            -               (19.8)    (39.4)    (64.0)    (94.5)    (04.5)
Total Long-term Debt                 483.9        635.1            1,291.1   1,191.8   2,592.1   3,2n5.7   3,761.6
Other Liabilities                                        112.9
Total Liabilities                    484.n        826.7            1,346.1   1,99.R2   2,694.1   3,339.2   3,R95.1
Net Worth
Paid in capital                             400.0                           40n.n     550.n      7nn0.      8O0.0      8o0.0
Retained earnings                            10.9         30.8               97.2     14n.3      16.qR      206.2     245.7
Total Net Worth                      410.9        430.R              497.2      69n.3      869.8   1,006.2   1,nJ 5,7
Total liabilities and Net Worth   Bg4.s         1,257.5            1,843.3   2,688.5   3,563.9   4,345.4   4,940.8



- 40 -                                              ANNEX IV
Table 6
CHINA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
China Investment Bank
Projected Indicators of Financial Position and Performance. 1984-90
(Y billion)
Actual                     Projected    ($1 - Y 3.15)
1984       1985        1986       1987      1988       1989       1990
(Prelim.)
Total Assests                               894.9     1,257.5   1,843.3   2,688.5   3,563.9   4,345.4   4,940.8
of which total loan portfolio             159.5       707.5   1,269.3   2,127.5   2,920.0   3,555.2   4,051.2
Subtotal
Long-Term Debts                          483.9        635.1   1,307.1   1,959.2   2,655.1   3,300.2   3,856.1
of which local currency                423.5        420.0      656.6      756.6     906.6   1,106.6   1,306.6
- IBRD                                 60.4        215.1      541.8     982.8   1,469.5   1,856.9   2,187.7
- Other foreign                          -            -       108.7     219.8      279.0      336.7      361.8
Total equity                                410.9       430.8      497.2      690.3     869.8   1,006.2   1,045.7
Ratios
Financial ratios:
Current                                   -           6.1:1    11.8         8.7       5.9        5.3        5.2
Long-term debt/equity                     1.2:1       1.5:1      2.6:1      2.8:1     3.1        3.3        3.7
Profitability Ratios
as % of average total assets:
Gross earnings                           2.0          4.0        6.2        6.9       7.3        7.5        7.5
Financial expenses                        1.1         1.6        3.3        4.1       4.4        4.5        4.6
General and admin. expenses              0.6          0.3        0.7        0.7       0.7        0.6        0.7
Provisions                                -           0.3        0.2        0.2       0.1        0.1        0.1
Profit before tax                        0.8          1.8        2.0        1.9       2.1        2.0        1.9
Net Profit                          0.8          1.6       2.0        1.9        2.9        0.9       0.9
Income from loan portfolio                    3.0         7.1        8.9        8.6        8.6       8.7        8.7
as Z of average term loan portfolio:
Cost of debt as ' of average
term debt                              2.5          3.2        5.1       5.7        5.9        6.0        6.0
Profit after tax as x of average equityl.4            4.3        6.2        7.3       3.8        3.9        3.9
Provisions as X of year end                  -          0.4        0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5
Outstanding loan portfolio
Debt service coverage ratio                 N.M.        N.M.       N.M.      12.4       12.4      10.9       10.1



