69616
    March 2009

2                PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
              Foreword
              Despite the deepening global economic crisis, the Government of Indonesia stands ?rm in its commitment to
              reduce poverty and decrease disparities between regions as well as disparities between rural and urban areas.
              The National Program for Community Empowerment (PNPM-Mandiri) is a critical part of these ongoing eﬀorts.
              The PNPM Support Facility (PSF), established in December 2007, provides a mechanism for the Government of
              Indonesia and the donor community to support and facilitate the harmonization and decentralization of the
              PNPM Mandiri program. The PSF plays an important role in ensuring the quality and eﬀectiveness of PNPM
              Mandiri and other poverty reduction programs in Indonesia.

              PNPM Mandiri will yield signi?cant bene?ts for communities. The program has a proven track record of improving
              economic welfare through cost-eﬀective provision of infrastructure at the village-level, and a demonstrated ability
              to reduce poverty rates. PNPM Mandiri also strengthens community institutions and the spirit of cooperation
              among community members, as well as developing communities’ capacity to formulate poverty reduction plans.
              Through PSF forums and activities, donors and related government partners have formulated strategic agendas
              for PNPM Mandiri harmonization and accelerating poverty reduction in Indonesia.

              We would like to express our gratitude and appreciation to the Royal Netherlands Embassy, Danida, AusAid,
              and DFID for their continued support and contributions. We would also like to thank members of the Joint
              Management Committee for their commitment to support the PSF. Our sincere appreciation is also directed to
              the staﬀ of the PSF for intensive technical support and cooperation. With such support and collaboration, our
              eﬀorts to accelerate poverty reduction in Indonesia will be realized.




                Prasetijono Widjojo, MJ                                                  William Wallace
                Chair, Joint Management Committee                                        Acting on behalf of
                Deputy Minister for National Development Planning/                       Joachim von Amsberg
                National Development Planning Agency For Poverty,                        Country Director,
                Labor, and Small & Medium Enterprises                                    World Bank Jakarta




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY                                                                                              1
    Table of Contents
    Introduction                                                                                                3

    PSF Management Update 2008                                                                                  5
      A. PSF Organizational Structure                                                                           5
      B. Committee Meetings                                                                                     6
            1. Joint Management Committee Meetings                                                              6
            2. Technical Committee Activities                                                                   6
      C. Guidelines and Manuals                                                                                 6
            1. PNPM Mandiri Guidelines                                                                          6
            2. PSF Operations Manual                                                                            7

    Progress in 2008                                                                                            9
      A. Presidential Decree on Poverty Alleviation                                                             9
      B. PNPM Mandiri Congress                                                                                 10
      C. Provincial Workshops                                                                                  11
      D. Progress against Roadmap                                                                              11
            1. PNPM Expansion                                                                                  11
            2. Program Decentralization                                                                        12
            3. Pro-poor Planning and Budgeting                                                                 12
            4. Block Grant Allocations                                                                         12

    Progress of PNPM Mandiri Programs                                                                          13
      A. PNPM Mandiri Rural                                                                                    13
      B. PNPM Mandiri Urban                                                                                    15
      C. PNPM-Support for Disadvantaged Regions                                                                15
      D. PNPM Mandiri Village Infrastructure (PPIP/RIS PNPM)                                                   16
      E. PNPM-Infrastructure for Socio-Economic Development (RISE)                                             16

    Progress on PSF Activities                                                                                 17
      A. PNPM Communications                                                                                   18
      B. Operations Support                                                                                    18
      C. PNPM Management Information System                                                                    18
      D. PNPM Community Facilitator Development System                                                         19
      E. Supervision and Monitoring                                                                            19
      F. Monitoring & Evaluations                                                                              20
      G. Green PNPM                                                                                            21
      H. Conditional Cash Transfer (PNPM Generasi Sehat dan Cerdas)                                            21
      I. Delivering Services to Poor Communities - ILGRP (Initiatives for Local Government’s Reform Project)   22
      J. Poverty Engagement, Knowledge, and Action                                                             23

    Activities for 2009                                                                                        25
    Attachment 1: PSF Financial Report                                                                         27
    Attachment 2: Block Grant Allocation Levels for PNPM Rural & PNPM Urban                                    29




2                                                                                          PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
                                                                                                                    1

Introduction
The National Program for Community Empowerment or PNPM Mandiri is a nationwide program for community
empowerment aimed at accelerating poverty reduction. The goal of this program is to empower rural and urban
communities to proactively participate in development. PNPM will nurture the solidarity and spirit of cooperation
within the community for self-help.

The PNPM Support Facility (PSF) provides support to the Government of Indonesia’s management and technical
implementation of the overall PNPM Mandiri program, and harmonizes donor contributions. Through PSF, donors
can provide high-quality, coordinated technical assistance, planning advice and dialogue, as well as targeted
?nancial assistance to the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in support of PNPM Mandiri.

The overall objective of PSF is to assist the GOI in providing the most eﬀective leadership and management of
the PNPM Mandiri. Its speci?c objectives are to:
    a. Ensure better coordination across grants and amongst donors supporting PNPM Mandiri;
    b. Develop capacity at all levels to plan, manage, and improve poverty reduction programs;
    c. Reduce poverty through government and civil society partnerships;
    d. Support high quality monitoring and evaluation.




                                                                                                                    3
    PSF was established with the signing of the Cooperation Agreement between GOI and the World Bank on
    December 12, 2007, and with contributions from the Royal Embassy of the Netherlands, the Danish International
    Development Agency (DANIDA), the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID), and
    the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID). To date, there are commitments of US$62 million
    to the Facility.




4                                                                                        PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
                                                                                                                     2
PSF Management Update 2008

A. PSF Organizational Structure
The PSF consists of four integrated units: the Joint Management Committee, the Technical Committee, the
Technical Secretariat, and the Advisory Panel.

PSF members are representatives of GOI and donor countries providing contributions of at least US$1 million.
GOI representatives on the JMC come from the National Development Planning Agency or BAPPENAS, the
Ministry of Finance, and the Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare. The JMC Chairman is the Deputy for Poverty,
Labor and Small & Medium Enterprises, BAPPENAS. The Co-Chair is a representative of the World Bank, which
acts as trustee for the PSF.

The JMC of PNPM i) provides overall policy guidance and review; ii) promotes harmonization across all poverty
programs; and iii) decides funding allocation. The Technical Committee consists of Echelon II and III from
institutions represented on the JMC. The Technical Committee is chaired by the Director of Poverty Reduction
(BAPPENAS), with membership from non-implementing agencies, including BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance,
and the Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare. The Technical Secretariat consists of a small number of
administration and technical specialists working under terms of reference reviewed by the Technical Committee
and decided by the Join Management Committee. The Technical Secretariat is housed in the PNPM Support
Facility. These three units are now fully function; the Advisory Panel is being formed.




                                                                                                                     5
    B. Committee Meetings
    1. Joint Management Committee Meetings
    During 2008, the JMC met four times: on 29 April, 4 June, and on 7 and 28 November 2008. Topics discussed
    included the PNPM Oversight Body’s regional coordination meetings for PNPM Mandiri, monitoring and
    evaluation, facilitator training, new proposals and the progress of PNPM Mandiri activities.




    2. Technical Committee Activities
    The ?rst meeting of the Technical Committee was held at BAPPENAS on 31 July 2008. The following issues were
    discussed and agreed upon.

      • Development of a Technical Committee work-plan to support the JMC.
      • Development of a Standard Operational Procedure (SOP) containing:
           (i) Criteria for activities executed by GOI or the World Bank;
           (ii) Principles of GOI-executed and Bank-executed activities;
           (iii) Activity mapping based on execution by GOI or the World Bank.
      • The PSF Technical Secretariat will provide reports on PSF ?nancial and activity status regularly.

    The PSF Technical Committee Meeting on 8-9 September 2008 in Bogor developed the PSF Standard Operational
    Procedure (SOP). The SOP is being ?nalized.



    C. Guidelines and Manuals
    1. PNPM Mandiri Guidelines
    The GOI is committed to maximizing management eﬀectiveness during the PNPM Mandiri scale-up and
    developing capacity at the local government level. Toward this end, General Guidelines were issued to ensure
    that all involved parties, including all levels of government and PNPM Mandiri implementing staﬀ, have the same




6                                                                                           PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
              understanding of PNPM Mandiri’s principles and mechanisms. In 2008, the PNPM Oversight Body formulated
              four operational guidelines: (i) Communications Strategy; (ii) Management Information System, (iii) Complaints
              Handling, and (iv) Monitoring and Evaluation.

              2. PSF Operations Manual
              The PSF Operations Manual sets the organization, management, and procedures for decision-making,
              implementation of activities, and reports. It is designed as a tool for the public at large, and for donors interested
              in supporting the GOI’s work with PNPM Mandiri and poverty reduction programs.

              3. PSF Portfolio
              The PSF Portfolio provides an outline of the PSF agenda to better facilitator the integration and harmonization
              processes needed during the implementation of PNPM Mandiri.




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                     3
Progress in 2008

2008 progress focused on expanding and consolidating PNPM Mandiri, and integrating technical support
programs aimed at coordinating development support. GOI has taken a number of critical steps to strengthen
its short- and long-term poverty reduction eﬀorts and ensure that all levels of government are active, informed
participants in PNPM Mandiri.



A. Presidential Decree on Poverty Alleviation
As part of the PNPM Roadmap, a Presidential Decree was signed in April 2009. The decree formalizes the National
Poverty Reduction Coordination Committee (TKPK) structure and functions at the national and local levels, and
establishes three poverty program clusters: the ?rst cluster is for individual social welfare programs; the second
cluster for community-based programs, such as PNPM Mandiri; and the third cluster for small and medium
enterprise (SME) programs. These clusters are coordinated under the TKPK. The decree will also outline the six
main areas of interest to PNPM Mandiri. The decree con?rms the structure of the Poverty Coordination teams
at the national, provincial, and district government levels. Second, it con?rms that funds for PNPM Mandiri will
be made available from national and district level contributions during the annual budgeting process. Third,
the PNPM Mandiri community participatory planning process will be integrated into the Government’s formal




                                                                                                                     9
     village to district planning process. This provision will allow for greater responsiveness of departments to meet
     villages’ needs that are not yet met through PNPM Mandiri. Fourth, community organizations and NGOs should
     play an important role in supporting villagers’ development plans. Fifth, the implementation of PNPM will be
     directly undertaken by villagers not third parties, including procurement of goods and materials.



     B. PNPM Mandiri Congress
     PNPM Mandiri Congress was held on April 27–May 1, 2008 at the Mercure Hotel, Jakarta. Four hundred eighty
     representatives from central and local government, civil society organizations, the private sector, and donors, as
     well as national and community leaders attended the conference.

     The objectives of the congress were:
        1. To allow participants to share experience and knowledge regarding poverty alleviation programs.
            Participants focused both on successful and unsuccessful approaches to poverty alleviation, with an
            emphasis on operations.
        2. To build cooperation and partnership amongst PNPM Mandiri stakeholders.
        3. To hear feedback and lessons-learned to improve poverty alleviation programs in the future.

     Discussions followed these themes:
         1. Local government initiatives to develop poverty reduction programs based on community
              empowerment;
         2. Private sector initiatives and lessons-learned from donors’ poverty reduction programs, based on the
              community driven development approach;
         3. Lessons-learned from PNPM Mandiri implementation;
         4. Facilitator forums.

     The Congress developed recommendations regarding the following issues regarding or closely related to PNPM
     Mandiri:
         1. Synchronizing development planning
         2. PNPM Mandiri data or other related data
         3. PNPM Mandiri institutions
         4. Community self-managed ?nancial organizations
         5. Regulations related to PNPM Mandiri
         6. Stake-holders forum
         7. Women’s involvement in PNPM Mandiri
         8. Asset management
         9. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
         10. Capacity building
         11. Community approach methodology




10                                                                                            PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
              C. Provincial Workshops
              The PNPM Mandiri Oversight Committee conducted ?ve regional coordination meetings during 2008 to help
                provincial level governments understand the design and concept of PNPM Mandiri. This regional coordination
                will be followed by activities for district governments and local implementers.

              Socialization activities were held in four locations for the following regions:
                  a. Medan: July 28, attended by representatives from eight provinces in Sumatra, i.e. Nanggroe Aceh
                      Darussalam, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Riau, Jambi, Bengkulu, South Sumatra and Bangka Belitung.
                  b. Surabaya: August 21, attended by representatives from ?ve provinces i.e. West Java, West Kalimantan,
                     Central Kalimantan, South Kalimantan and East Kalimantan.
                  c. Denpasar: September 4, attended by representatives from ten provinces i.e. DKI Jakarta, West Java, DI
                     Yoygakarta, Central Java, Banten, Bali, NTB, NTT, Riau and Lampung.
                  d. Makassar: September 15, attended by representatives from ten provinces i.e. South Sulawesi, Central
                     Sulawesi, West Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, South-East Sulawesi, Gorontalo, Maluku, North Maluku, Papua
                     and West Papua.

              These regional workshops were followed by provincial workshops coordinated by the Ministry of Communication
              and Information in cooperation with local governments. The remaining provincial workshops will be done in
              2009.



              D. Progress against the Roadmap
              As originally planned, progress over this past year focused upon two main areas: PNPM Mandiri scale-up and
              consolidation, and integration of other technical support programs aimed at harmonizing development support
              to urban and rural communities.

              The scale-up will rely on increased management capacity of the programs under the PNPM Mandiri umbrella.
              As discussed above, four operational guidelines have been issued on general principles and operations,
              communication strategy, complaints handling and monitoring and evaluation, including management
              information systems.

              1. PNPM Expansion
              In 2009, PNPM Mandiri expanded to cover all 6,408 sub-districts and urban wards in Indonesia. This is a dramatic
              increase from 2007 and 2008 coverage when PNPM Mandiri reached 2,361 and 4,768 sub-districts and urban
              wards, respectively. See Table 1 below for coverage breakdown for PNPM Mandiri Core Programs in 2009.

              At present, PNPM Mandiri will be funded through 2015. The GOI is developing an exit strategy that will eventually
              hand over community-based poverty alleviation programs to local governments.




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY                                                                                            11
     Table 1: PNPM Mandiri Core Programs for 2009
      Name of Project                                                             Number of              Percentage
                                                                              Sub-districts Covered

      1. PNPM Rural                                                                   4,371                  68%
      Executing Agency: Ministry of Home Aﬀairs

      2. PNPM Urban                                                                   1,145                  18%
      Executing Agency: Ministry of Public Works

      3. Regional Infrastructure, Social and Economic Project (RISE)                   237                   4%
      Executing Agency: Ministry of Public Works

      4. Rural Infrastructure Program (PPIP)                                           479                   7%
      Executing Agency: Ministry of Public works

      5. Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas (SPADA)                              186                   3%
      Executing Agency: Ministry of Less Developed Areas

      Total Sub-districts in Indonesia                                                6,408                 100%


     2. Program Decentralization
     To prepare for the eventual hand-over of community-based poverty reduction strategies to local governments,
     management of PNPM Rural and PNPM Urban has been decentralized to the provincial and district level since
     2008. There are 32 provincial-level Working Units or Satker and 346 district-level Satker. Extensive training and
     capacity building, particularly regarding ?nancial management and administration, has taken place for Satker as
     well as the hiring of necessary additional personnel. Increased levels of funding are being given to the Satker, and
     additional auditing is taking place to ensure accountability.

     3. Pro-Poor Planning and Budgeting
     In an eﬀort to increase the capacity of local governments to better plan, focus, and coordinate poverty programs,
     an initial pilot training on pro-poor planning and budgeting involving government oﬃcials in eleven districts
     has been expanded to nine more districts. The eventual goal is to expand to all district and city governments in
     Indonesia.

     4. Block Grant Allocations
     To ensure that community block grants meet local needs, the PNPM Oversight Body set criteria for block grant
     allocations. These criteria take into account the percentage of poor households in a sub-district or urban ward
     and population. PNPM Rural’s allocation is further adapted to include Java-Bali and non-Java-Bali. See Attachment
     2 Block Grant Allocation Levels for PNPM Rural and PNPM Urban.




12                                                                                             PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
                                                                                                                  4
Progress of PNPM Mandiri
Programs
For 2009, PNPM Mandiri Core programs consist of ?ve programs: PNPM Mandiri Rural; PNPM Mandiri Urban; PNPM
for Underdeveloped Villages (KPDT or SPADA); PNPM Village Infrastructure (PPIP); and PNPM Social Infrastructure
(PISEW or RISE).


A. PNPM Mandiri Rural
Scope: National
       2008: 2,864 sub-districts
       2009, 4,371 sub-districts

Summary: PNPM Rural’s overall objective is to reduce poverty and improve local-level governance in Indonesia
through the provision of investment resources to support productive proposals developed by communities,
using a participatory planning process. PNPM Rural’s project development objective is for villagers in these
rural locations to bene?t from improved socio-economic and local governance conditions. The project, using
a community-based approach, will help ?ll Indonesia’s large tertiary infrastructure gap eﬃciently. Objectives
are being achieved through: (a) communities’ participating in an open planning process; (b) provision of grants
to communities directly and transparently to ?nance an open menu of poverty alleviation activities; and (c)



                                                                                                                  13
     enhancing the capacity of central government and local governments to partner with community organizations
     in service provision.

     For 2009, PNPM Rural is valued at US$1.2 billion. The program is funded 75 percent by national and local
     government resources. The remaining funds come from World Bank loans/credits, community contributions,
     and trust funds. PNPM Rural provides block grants to communities ranging from US$90,000 to US$300,000
     (depending upon level of poverty and population size).

     2008 Progress: (as reported to date)
        • Over 10,000 kilometers of road constructed or rehabilitated
        • 2,006 bridges constructed or rehabilitated
        • 2,986 health facilities constructed
        • 3,372 schools constructed or rehabilitated
        • 6,438 clean water projects
        • 4,712 public sanitation facilities
        • 141 irrigation systems constructed
        • Micro-credit for women: 2008 asset totals are Rp.2 trillion or US$216 million with a 92.72 percent repayment
           rate.

     Accomplishments to Date:
         • Reduce poverty. A recent impact evaluation illustrated that per capita consumption gains were 11
           percentage points higher among poor households in KDP/PNPM Rural areas than in the control areas.
           Also, the proportion of households moving out of poverty in poor sub-districts was 9.2 percent higher in
           KDP/PNPM Rural areas compared to control areas. Vulnerable households near the poverty line are less at
           risk of falling into poverty as a result of KDP/PNPM Rural participation.
          • Generate employment. As of December 2007, approximately 72 million workdays had been created
            through KDP/PNPM Rural. In comparison with control areas, KDP/PNPM Rural has reduced unemployment
            by 1.5 percent.
          • Fill Indonesia’s tertiary infrastructure gap. As of April 2008, over 40,000 kilometers of roads, 10,500
            clean water supply units, 11,000 irrigation schemes, 3,800 village health posts and 6,700 new schools have
            been built or rehabilitated, along with 23,000 other types of economically productive infrastructure.
          • Produce quality, cost-effective infrastructure. Independent evaluations of the technical quality for
            infrastructure works classi?ed 91 to 93 percent of the infrastructure as ‘good’ to ‘very good’. Also, village
            infrastructure built through KDP/PNPM methods costs signi?cantly less—on average 56 percent less—
            than equivalent works built through government contracts.
          • Bring local communities into the development process. Community participation in KDP/PNPM is
            high. Participation of women in KDP/PNPM meetings ranges from 31 to 60 percent. Nearly 60 percent of
            those who attend KDP planning meetings are from the poorer segments of the community.

     2009 Plans and Activities: PNPM Rural will expand from 2,864 rural sub-districts in 2008 to a total of approximately
     4,371 rural sub-districts in 2009.


     B. PNPM Mandiri Urban
     Scope: National
             2009: 4,593 urban wards (kelurahan) in 1,145 sub-districts.




14                                                                                             PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
              Summary: PNPM Urban works to ensure that the urban poor bene?t from improved socio-economic and
              local governance conditions. This is achieved through: (a) the formation and institutionalization of elected
              representative organizations that are accountable to communities; (b) provision of grants to communities directly
              and transparently to ?nance an open menu of poverty alleviation activities; and (c) enhancing the capacity of
              central and local governments to partner with community organizations in service provision.

              2008 Progress: As of September 2008, close to 100 percent of target areas had completed all cycles of PNPM-
              Urban community preparation, and the majority of fund had been disbursed to the villages. About 6.7 million
              people participated in the election of the Boards of Trustees, 44 percent of these voters were women. A total of
              7,200 elected community organizations had been established, consisting of 78,000 members who voluntarily
              work for the poor. A supervision mission in October 2008 noted that about 7,000 Community Development
              Plans have been completed and more than 40,000 sub-project proposals are being funded, mostly small-scale
              infrastructure. The sub-projects range from village roads, drainage schemes, housing rehabilitation, and small
              canals to social funds and revolving funds.

              2009 Plans and Activities: PNPM-Urban will be scaled-up to cover 1,145 sub-districts consisting of 11,039
              urban wards. The World Bank will cover 6,168 urban wards in nineteen provinces. The remainder will be covered
              by IDB (Islamic Development Bank).



              C. PNPM-Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas
              Scope: SPADA National: 32 districts in eight provinces

                       SPADA Aceh-Nias: a trust-funded program in 19 districts in Aceh and North Sumatra recovering from
                       the 2004-2005 earthquakes and tsunami.

              Summary: Operating under the national PNPM Mandiri umbrella, the Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas
              (SPADA) Program is designed to assist some of the country’s poorest communities. The overall objective of SPADA
              is to provide a mechanism for participatory planning procedures to be incorporated into district government
              decision-making. Under SPADA, village councils, inter-village fora, and district planning boards are enriched with
              various mechanisms intended to provide additional participation, greater transparency, and practical technical
              support for planning and implementation.

              SPADA National is funded by a US$69 million loan and US$35 million credit, approved in August 2005, declared
              eﬀective on December 2005 and closing December 2011.

              SPADA Aceh and Nias is funded by a US$22.5 million grant, approved by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDF) in March
              2006, declared eﬀective May 2007 and closing June 2010. SPADA Aceh is also supported by a complementary
              grant from DFID US$11 million

              2008 Progress:
              Use of SPADA National block grants in 2008
                  • Local infrastructure projects - 67 percent; Health - 18 percent; and Education - 15 percent for 2008. Use of
                     SPADA Aceh-Nias block grants in 2008
                  • Local infrastructure projects - 47 percent; Health - 22 percent; Education - 32 percent.




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY                                                                                             15
     2009 Plans and Activities: SPADA National and SPADA Aceh Nias are undergoing a Mid-Term Review that will
     assess the validity of the projects’ original development objectives and core design.



     D. PNPM Mandiri Village Infrastructure (PPIP/RIS PNPM)
     Scope: 1,650 rural villages in Jambi, Lampung, Riau, and South Sumatra

     Summary: Building upon the existing PNPM Mandiri platform and the Rural Infrastructure Support Project (RISP)
     program, which ended in 2008, this project targets the provision of better basic rural infrastructure to the poor
     and near poor in the served communities.

     PNPM Mandiri Village Infrastructure will run from 2009-2011. PPIP has a total project budget of US$62.5 million,
     which includes a US$50 million loan from the Asian Development Bank, US$6.7 million by the GOI, and an
     estimated US$5.8 million from community contributions.

     2008: As RISP, PNPM Mandiri Village Infrastructure initially was funded fully by the GOI. Of the total project
     amount, Rp.360.36 billion or US$38.78 million in community grants, approximately 86.91 percent was allocated
     for transportation projects, e.g. roads, bridges, and drains. Irrigation and water/sanitation projects absorbed 5.14
     percent and 5.70 percent of the total grant, respectively. The remainder, roughly 2.25 percent, was allocated for
     other projects.

     2009 Plans and Activities: The US$50 million loan from the Asian Development Bank will start in 2009. The
     program is currently recruiting consulting services and providing training for facilitators. Together with district-
     level public works services, the facilitators will assist communities in the design and planning of priority
     infrastructure, and operations and maintenance. When community mobilization is complete, civil works can
     begin. This is presently scheduled for second-third quarter of 2009.



     E. PNPM-Infrastructure for Socio-Economic Development (RISE)
     Scope: 237 sub-districts in nine provinces: North Sumatra, Jambi, Bengkulu, West and South Kalimantan, South
     and West Sulawesi, West Nusa Tenggara

     Summary: The objective of the project is to improve the access of the poor to economic opportunities and social
     services in the targeted, predominantly poor communities. The project consists of needs-based development/
     rehabilitation of infrastructure facilities for the following sectors as subcomponents: 1) Transportation; 2) Clean
     water supply and sanitation; 3) Small-scale irrigation; 4) Markets; 5) Primary healthcare; 6) Education, and 7)
     Micro?nance services (pilot).

     JICA and GOI signed the loan agreement for this project on 29 March 2007, with the total loan amount of
     JPY23,519 billion or Rp. 2,351,900 trillion (US$ 233,126,823).

     2008 Progress: In 2008, RISE carried out its baseline survey and study, socialization, training, and other preparation
     activities.

     2009 Plans and Activities: The program will begin to provide community grants in 2009.




16                                                                                               PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
                                                                                                              5
Progress on PSF Activities

PSF activities in 2008 focused on supporting the PNPM Mandiri scale-up.

In 2008, several windows were opened for PSF funding support. Activities undertaken under these windows are
listed below:

      1.    PNPM Communications
      2.    PNPM Operations Support
      3.    PNPM Management Information Systems
      4.    PNPM Community Facilitator Development System
      5.    PNPM Supervision and Monitoring
      6.    PNPM Monitoring and Evaluation
      7.    Green PNPM/Renewable Energy
      8.    Green PNPM Technical Assistance
      9.    Community Conditional Cash Transfer (PNPM Generasi) Technical Assistance
      10.   Delivering Services to Poor Communities
      11.   Poverty, Knowledge, and Action.
      12.   PNPM-Eastern Indonesia - Technical Assistance for Remote Regions, Supervision and Local
            Government Support (approved, to be opened 2009)




                                                                                                              17
     A. PNPM Communications
     Summary: The Communications team at the PSF Support Facility works with DepKomInfo to implement the PNPM
     Mandiri Communication Strategy. The work has two tracks: 1) disseminating information; and 2) encouraging
     active participation from communities. Communication and socialization activities include developing eﬀective
     communication materials for target audiences and infrastructure to support communication and socialization
     activities.

     Activities supported by PSF include facilitation, providing communication and socialization support materials,
     dissemination/socialization of PNPM Mandiri, facilitation of coordination among programs, and engagement of
     the mass media, NGOs and universities to support PNPM Mandiri socialization and communication activities.

     Progress for 2008
         • Development of Communication Materials. Materials developed include: general and operations
           guidelines, an information kit, bi-monthly newsletters, public service announcement materials, as well as
           books on best practices and lessons learned.
         • Development of Communication and Socialization Infrastructure. 2008 activities under this
           category included the PNPM National Workshop, socialization and dissemination to local governments,
           workshop on complaints and problem handling, media monitoring and analysis, media discussions and
           visits to program locations, engaging universities/academicians, establishing the PNPM Mandiri PO BOX,
           and involving community radios and community photographers in disseminating information on PNPM
           Mandiri.
     2009 Plans and Activities: In 2009, the PSF Communication Team will continue to re?ne, produce, and distribute
     PNPM Mandiri communication materials and conduct out-reach activities.



     B. Operations Support
     Summary: Operations Support provides administrative services supporting the PSF. In addition to managing the
     PSF facility and assisting the Oversight Committee as needed, Operations Support provides ?duciary oversight
     and reporting for all PSF programs, and supports the PNPM Technical Secretariat.

     2008 Progress: In addition to oversight and management, the Operations Support team: i) provided regular
     ?nancial reports to the JMC regarding PSF ?nancial status; ii) organized workshops, conferences, and retreats; iii)
     identi?ed new PSF oﬃce location and managed renovations to create an eﬀective oﬃce environment.

     2009 Plans and Activities: Successfully relocated the oﬃce to Jalan Diponegoro No. 72, completed March
     2009. The Operations Support team continues to provide regular ?nancial updates and administrative support
     to the PSF



     C. PNPM Management Information System
     Summary: BAPPENAS began working on an integrated management information system (MIS) to coordinate
     all information needs across the various PNPM projects, especially the ?ve main ones under the PNPM umbrella.




18                                                                                            PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
              Each existing project has its own MIS, thus the approach is to coordinate across the programs and ensure that
              critical performance indicators for PNPM as a whole will be picked up and reported upon through the integrated
              MIS. Starting with seed funding from the World Bank Institutional Development Fund (IDF), BAPPENAS will begin
              the program design and MIS piloting ?rst. Later stages of the MIS expansion will tap into PSF resources, including
              linking systems with local levels.



              D. PNPM Community Facilitator Development System
              Summary: This program seeks to ease the search for sub-district facilitators (FK) candidates and improve the
              quali?cations of FKs. FKs are responsible for working directly with community bene?ciaries to ensure they
              understand the mechanisms through which PNPM operates, assist them in identifying development priorities
              and creating viable project proposals for block grant funding. This program will create a database of facilitators to
              ?ll vacant FK positions as they arise, establish a standardized certi?cation process, provide management training,
              and train 650 master trainers.

              Progress for 2008: Preparation of the grant agreement.

              2009 Plans and Activities: In 2009, PSF will issue a grant to the British Council to continue and build upon
              previously conducted training and certi?cation activities. The activities described above will take place over a
              one-year period. The 650 master trainers will be well-placed to provide in-service and refresher training to the
              11,000 current PNPM facilitators and provide pre-service training to new recruits.



              E. Supervision and Monitoring
              Summary: A major component of the PSF’s work is supporting high-quality monitoring and supervision activities
              to provide necessary oversight and ensure PNPM Mandiri’s eﬀective implementation.

              2008 Progress:
                 • Increased capacity and quality of monitoring and supervision
                 • Augmented levels of monitoring and supervision through additional Jakarta-based staﬀ ?eld visits and
                    additional numbers of ?eld-based staﬀ for PNPM Rural and PNPM pilot programs, particularly in Aceh and
                    Nias.
                 • In Aceh, expanded levels of assistance provided to the Government of Aceh for its new Special Autonomy-
                    funded program, the Fund for Village Welfare Assistance (BKPG).
                 • In Papua, increased levels of supervision and monitoring for Papua RESPEK.
                 • Expanded community outreach.
                 • Strengthened monitoring for SPADA.
                 • Extra eﬀorts to document well progress and problems with PNPM Rural, speci?cally monitoring technical
                    training, technical quality of sub-projects (infrastructure), complaints handling, resolution of complaints,
                    and follow-up on audits.
                 • Monitoring and supervision extends to support the PNPM Oversight Committee, headed by the
                    Coordinating Ministry for People’s Welfare
                 • Technical support to PNPM pilots, e.g. Community CCT, Papua RESPEK, Fund for Village Welfare Assistance
                    (BKPG) in Aceh, and gender mainstreaming activities.




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY                                                                                                19
     F. Monitoring & Evaluations
     Summary: Monitoring and evaluation activities are designed to achieve the following goals: i) to provide PNPM
     stakeholders with empirical data regarding the results and impact on PNPM; ii) to research in greater depth
     special topics of concern to PNPM; iii) to build the capacity of Indonesian social science research organizations
     for M&E and special studies.

     Description of Ongoing and Planned Activities:

     (1) PNPM Rural Impact Evaluation: PNPM Rural Impact Evaluation: A baseline survey consisting of 9,505
         households in 456 sub-districts in 17 provinces was completed in Aug 2007. The baseline survey also served
         as a follow-up survey for the KDP2 impact evaluation. Treatment areas for the PNPM Rural Impact Evaluation
         were selected from PNPM Rural sub-districts beginning participation in the project in 2007. Control areas
         were selected from PNPM Rural sub-districts not receiving the project until 2009. A report on the baseline
         data was produced in August 2008. A follow-up survey will be implemented late-2009 or early 2010 on the
         same households from the baseline with a report expected mid-2010. A qualitative baseline survey was
         also implemented in Nov. 2007 in 18 villages in 3 provinces with a report completed in Aug. 2008.

     (2) PNPM Mandiri 2009 Baseline. Research designs for each program component of PNPM Mandiri are being
         developed. Based on the research designs, a baseline survey will be implemented in late 2009 or early 2010,
         which will allow PNPM Mandiri to continue evaluation work in 2011-2012 via follow-up surveys.

     (3) Facilitation Study: This study will evaluate the importance and values-added of having facilitators in CDD
         programs; assess their inﬂuence on communities’ capacity to manage their own development needs; and
         ?nd more sustainable TA/facilitation strategy for PNPM. Deliverable in December 2009.

     (4) PNPM Governance Study: This study seeks to document and understand better the perspectives of
         national and sub-national leaders involved in the implementation of PNPM, as well as the challenges and
         opportunities for local governance. Deliverable in Aug 2009.

     (5) Vulnerable and Marginalized Groups study: This study will use ethnographic qualitative research
         methods to examine inclusion/exclusion issues in PNPM Rural. Deliverable in December 2009.

     (6) Papua PNPM RESPEK Evaluations: PNPM RESPEK is a special PNPM Rural program for Papua and West Papua
         where community block grants are provided by provincial governments. Secondary data from SUSENAS
         will observe changes in basic socio-economic indicators over time. An additional module will measure
         community awareness of the program. Qualitative evaluations include evaluation of rural infrastructure
         quality, community capacity building, and vulnerable groups study (with national PNPM Rural). Qualitative
         impact assessment is included. Secondary data from SUSENAS will be available in Feb 2010 and Feb 2011.
         Rural infrastructure and community capacity building evaluations reports will be completed in February
         2010. Vulnerable groups study report in Dec 2009. Qualitative impact assessment will be implemented in
         2011.

     (7) Green PNPM Evaluations: Green PNPM is a pilot project under PNPM Rural. Evaluations consist of micro-
         hydro power evaluation to assess the bene?ts of rural electri?cation for communities; study on community
         natural resources management and socio-economic bene?ts of environmentally friendly direct income
         generation activities. A mid-term rapid assessment is included. Micro-hydro power evaluation, community
         NRM studies, and socio-economic bene?t study will be done in 2011. A mid-term rapid appraisal will be
         done in 2010.




20                                                                                           PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
(8) Economic Analyses Studies: The following studies will be commissioned to review independently: i)
    Economic internal rates of returns; ii) Cost eﬀectiveness; iii) Economic multiplier eﬀects on employment
    and poverty impacts. These studies will be delivered in the fourth quarter of 2009.



G. Green PNPM
Scope: 10 Provinces: Aceh, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Bengkulu, South Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi, West
Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, Papua, and West Papua

Summary: Operating through PNPM’s standard mechanism, Green PNPM is a pilot program speci?cally designed
to assist rural communities enhance their livelihoods by investing in Natural Resource Management (NRM) and
Renewable Energy (RE) projects. Green PNPM began in March 2007, with initial funding from the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) to support sustainable natural resource management by communities
in the environmentally sensitive areas of Sulawesi. Subsequently, the Governments of the Netherlands, Australia
and Denmark have committed additional funding to intensify activities in Sulawesi and expand Green PNPM to
Sumatra and Papua. The total committed funding of US$51,594,605 is used to provide technical assistance and
environmental awareness training, facilitate community decision-making processes regarding the use of natural
resources, and disburse block grants to ?nance an open menu of ‘green’ projects.

2008 Progress: Green PNPM made signi?cant headway in raising environmental awareness and facilitating
training for community and local government representatives through sub-grants to three local/international
Civil Society Organizations (CSOs). These CSOs active in Sulawesi have developed a range of training modules
and public information material (i.e. billboards, brochures, radio campaigns, etc.) communicating the importance
of, and economic incentives that can be realized through, sustainable NRM practices.

2009 Plans and Activities: Green PNPM is projected to disburse block grants totaling over $6,000,000 to fund
approximately 48 MHP schemes and other NRM projects throughout Sulawesi and Sumatra. Integral technical
assistance to Green PNPM will be provided through additional support from the Government of the Netherlands,
which is funding an MHP Technical Support Unit (TSU) and will aid communities in the planning, construction
and maintenance of local MHP schemes. The Government of Denmark has seconded an NRM technical advisor
to assist in developing national strategies for the integration of environment/natural resource management and
renewable energy into PNPM Rural, as well as to document and disseminate results and lessons learned from
pilot activities at local, regional and national level.



H. Conditional Cash Transfer (PNPM Generasi Sehat dan Cerdas)
Scope: 5 provinces: East Nusa Tenggara, West Java, East Java, North Sulawesi, Gorontalo

Summary: This program builds upon the KDP platform for community participatory planning and block grant
funding. PNPM Generasi targets 3 Millennium Development Goals lagging in Indonesia: achievement of universal
basic education, reduction in child mortality, and improvement in maternal health. It uses community planning
and block grants to reach 12 health and education indicators. Communities work with facilitators, and health and
education service providers to identify locally appropriate solutions to increasing access to and use of health and
education services.




                                                                                                                      21
     Common health activities in PNPM-Generasi locations include: improving access to and equipment for health
     facilities; intensive feeding for malnourished children; transportation costs for midwives and mothers; seed funds
     for group savings for deliveries and related complications; and subsidizing fees for delivery. Common education
     activities include transportation money, uniforms, and school supplies for poor students.

     2008 Progress:
        • Scoring Results: Results against the twelve health and education targets for the ?rst year of activity
           implementation in the 129 existing sub-districts are now ?nal. All of the provinces exceeded their
           minimum threshold targets, except North Sulawesi. The strongest performing province in the program is
           East Nusa Tenggara.
         • Disbursement: All block grant and operational funds have been disbursed for the ?rst and second year
           in new and existing locations except in four sub-districts in Magetan, East Java, where the remaining 20
           percent of the funds will be carried over into ?scal year 2009.
         • MIS System: The new Management Information System was launched in January 2009. Data on funding,
           participation, activities and scoring can be obtained at www.pnpmperdesaan-generasi.or.id.
         • Mid-Term Evaluation: The mid-term impact evaluation is currently underway. The ?eld survey is
           complete and the ?nal report will be available in mid 2009.

     The design of the community CCT program includes a rigorous evaluation component designed to measure the
     impact on health and education indicators, consumption and targeting of the two CCT approaches (Household
     and Community CCT). Three waves of evaluation surveys, using a randomized experimental design, were
     planned from the outset. The baseline survey was ?elded in June to September 2007 covering 668 sub-districts
     in six provinces. The comprehensive baseline included some 42,000 respondents including respondents from
     households and education and health facilities. The follow up survey in 2008 covered the 300 sub-districts of
     Community CCT in ?ve provinces. (The HH-CCT project ?elded its own separate survey). The report for the 2008
     wave is due out in June 2009 and will provide preliminary data on Community CCT impacts. The last wave of
     survey is scheduled for the end of 2009 and early 2010.

     2009 Plans and Activities: The project will continue to run as it currently does. In November 2008, GOI decided
     to extend the program for another year beyond its original 2-year plan. The third year of program implementation
     is due to commence in June 2009 in the 178 ocations.


     I. Delivering Services to Poor Communities
     Summary: The program’s main objective is to prepare and undertake initial activities to improve the quality
     of public service delivery and ?nancial management at the local government level through: (i) piloting a
     performance-based incentive system for local governments to improve their ability to deliver poverty services;
     and (ii) operationalizing local governments’ Monitoring & Evaluation systems. The program also supports the
     preparation of the DIALOG (Delivery Improvement and Local Governance) Trust Fund. These activities will bene?t
     all programs dealing with local governments, since their ?ndings will be applicable to every project that has to
     manage grants to local governments.

     2008 Progress:
         • Establishment of trust fund October 2008.
         • DIALOG preparation and development of project documents.




22                                                                                            PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
                  • Hired Gender Specialist to conduct gender assessment for the overall gender framework of the Project,
                    including providing input to the Project Appraisal Document.
                  • Hired PSD Specialist to work on the project manual/ guideline preparation for facilitating ?eld activities.



              J. Poverty Engagement, Knowledge, and Action
              Summary: The program consists of four platforms of activities designed to: i) strengthen poverty and social
              protection programs, ii) deepen analysis of poverty and vulnerability, iii) build technical capacity and know-how,
              and iv) stimulate policy dialogue and provide inputs to policy-makers. The program places a strong focus on
              enhancing the capacity of government agencies and local think tanks—both through stand-alone projects and
              integrated across all platform activities—to use poverty analysis as a basis for action in promoting equitable
              growth.

              2008 Progress: Approved by the Joint Management Committee at the 28 November 2008 meeting. Activities
              to begin in 2009.

              2009-2010 Plans and Activities:
              Activities listed below are draft activities being negotiated with government counterparts.
                   • Establish technical sub-team to support PKH Steering Committee and complete assessments of two
                      select poverty programs.
                   • Improve poverty targeting report preparation and dissemination with the goal of improving the eﬃciency
                      of social transfer programs to the poor by more accurately targeting poor households.
                   • Research on the binding constraints of pro-poor growth to analyze some of the major microeconomic,
                      macroeconomic, and market impediments to poverty reduction in Indonesia’s current context.
                   • Tools and training for regional poverty assessments and pro-poor planning. Work with local governments
                      so that they can assess local binding constraints for reducing poverty. The ?ndings will be used to develop
                      locally relevant variants of national poverty reduction programs, or in local planning and budgeting
                      activities.
                   • Provide technical assistance for improving the quality and availability of data for evidence-based policy
                      making and planning.
                   • Poverty policy dialogue series.
                   • Policy notes and briefs to provide policymakers with “in-time? data and analysis to support evidence-
                      based policy development to planned and unplanned events.




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY                                                                                              23
                                                                                                              6
Activities for 2009

In 2009, PNPM Mandiri will undertake a major expansion to cover all 6,408 sub-districts and urban wards in
Indonesia. This represents a 172 percent increase from 2007, when only 2,361 sub-districts were covered by
PNPM Mandiri. With the scale-up close to completion, the GOI is focusing on building the capacity of local
governments and key implementing actors. The long-term view is that PNPM Mandiri becomes not just a tool
for immediate poverty alleviation, but a platform through which communities and local governments can learn
to make eﬀective, long term plans to reduce poverty.

At present, the GOI plans to continue PNPM Mandiri until 2015. During 2009, PSF activities will support the
expansion and increase the eﬀectiveness of PNPM Mandiri implementation through:

      • Ensuring harmonization of community development programs at the village and sub-district levels
      • Coordinating with line ministries to support PNPM Mandiri activities.
      • Strengthening technical assistance and supervision
      • Training a ready pool of community facilitators who can assist in these PNPM Mandiri programs and
        developing a database of trained facilitators.
      • Increasing the involvement and capabilities of district governments into the PNPM Mandiri process.




                                                                                                              25
     • Strengthening the conditional cash transfer program and evaluating the results from the ?rst pilot
       phases.
     • Ensuring monitoring and evaluation systems are in place for all PNPM Mandiri programs
     • Undertaking analytical work on poverty issues and poverty targeting eﬀectiveness.
     • Developing and disseminating socialization and communication tools.
     • Developing an integrated MIS (BAPPENAS).




26                                                                                 PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
                                         Attachment 1: PSF Financial Report
                                         The Government of the Netherlands, Denmark, and Australia have begun disbursing their ?nancial contributions to the PSF. The contribution agreement
                                         signed for the PSF from these three donors totals US$54.34 million. As of December 31, 2008, approximately US$17.91 million or 33 percent of these funds
                                         have been disbursed. The PSF has also received a commitment from DFID for US$2 million.




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
                                         Detailed ?nancial management report as of December 31, 2008 is provided below.


                                                                                                         PNPM Support Facility TF070967

                                                                                                          Financial Management Report

                                                                                                               As of March 15, 2009

                                         DONOR CONTRIBUTION

                                                        Donor                          Donor Contribution                        Contribution Received                         Balance to Receive

                                                                             In Donor Currency           In USD         In Donor Currency           In USD            In Donor Currency       In USD

                                         1   Government of Netherlands      USD         37.300.000 $       37.300.000 USD        14.674.970 $             14.674.970 USD     22.625.030 $           22.625.030
                                         2   Government of Australia        AUD          6.550.000 $        4.228.680 AUD         6.550.000 $              4.228.680 AUD              - $                    -
                                             (AusAID)
                                         3   DANIDA              Note 2)    DKK         87.087.500 $       14.935.262 DKK        10.000.000 $              1.714.972 DKK     77.087.500 $           13.220.290
                                         4   UK - Department for            GBP          4.000.000 $        5.508.000 GBP         3.800.000 $              5.232.600 GBP        200.000 $             275.400
                                             International Develeopment
                                             (DFID)
                                                                            TOTAL          Note 1) $      61.971.942                          $          25.851.222                       $    36.120.720
                                         Note 1) Dollar values reﬂect exchange rates as of dates of transaction
                                         Note 2) Contribution is the process of amendment to reﬂect reduction of DKK 4,637,500 (or approx. UAD800,000)




27
                                                PNPM Support Facility TF070967
                                                 Financial Management Report
                                                      As of March 15, 2009
      WINDOWS APPROVED
                                                                                                          Amount
      Digest                                                                   Approved Funding
                                                                                                       Transferred to
       Ref                            Sub-Program Name                             Envelope
                                                                                                      Child Trust Fund
       No.
                                                                                         (In US Dollar)


                Window 1:                                                              16,000,000
         5      Green KDP: Co-?nancing Grant to PNPM for Decentralized                  16,000,000           9,000,000
                Management of Natural Resources and Renewable Energy


                Window 2:                                                              13,593,900           3,943,900
         1      PNPM Communication Strategy                                              2,000,000             500,000
         2      MIS/Information Management                                               1,000,000
         3      PNPM Community Facilitator Development System                            1,000,000                   *
         6      PNPM Operations Support                                                  3,650,000           1,500,000
         7      PNPM Supervision and Monitoring                                          4,000,000           1,000,000
         9      PNPM TA for Remote Regions, Supervision and Local Government             3,000,000
                Support
        10      PNPM Delivering Services to Poor Community                                943,900              943,900


                Window 3:
                n/a                                                                               -                  -


                Window 4 :                                                             10,250,000           1,800,000
         4      PNPM M&E, Special Studies                                                5,000,000             800,000
        5,1     Green KDP: Co-?nancing Grant to PNPM for Decentralized                   2,250,000             500,000
                Management of Natural Resources and Renewable Energy
         8      PNPM Generasi - Conditional Cash Transfer                                1,000,000           1,000,000
        11      PNPM Poverty Management, Knowledge and Action                            2,000,000             500,000


                 TOTAL                                                                 39,843,900          15,743,900
     *Pending signing of grant agreement




28                                                                                           PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
              Attachment 2: Block Grant Allocation Levels for PNPM Rural
              & PNPM Urban
              PNPM Urban Block Grant Allocations for 2009
                                                                            Population Category Village/Urban Wards (persons)
                                   Location Category
                                                                                          (in millions of Rupiah)
                                                                                 < 3000            3000-10,000         > 10000
              Percent of poor households > 10% (0-2 BLM)                                     150             200                 350
              Percent of poor households > 10% (3 BLM)                                       100             150                 200
              Percent of poor households < 10%                                                50             100                 100


              PNPM Rural Block Grant Allocations for 2009
              Region                                         Sub-district Criteria                      Allocation of Sub-district
                                         Population                      Poverty Level                      Block Grants (Rp)
                       Java-Bali                  < 25,000                       Less Poor                              900.000.000
                                                                                 Average                                900.000.000
                                                                                   Poor                                2.000.000.000
                                                25,000-50,000                    Less Poor                              900.000.000

                                                                                 Average                               2.000.000.000
                                                                                   Poor                                3.000.000.000
                                                  > 50,000                       Less Poor                             1.000.000.000
                                                                                 Average                               2.000.000.000
                                                                                   Poor                                3.000.000.000
                  Outside Java-Bali               < 15,000                       Less Poor                              900.000.000
                                                                                 Average                                900.000.000
                                                                                   Poor                                2.000.000.000
                                                15,000-25,000                    Less Poor                              900.000.000
                                                                                 Average                               2.000.000.000
                                                                                   Poor                                2.000.000.000
                                                  > 25,000                       Less Poor                              900.000.000
                                                                                 Average                               2.000.000.000
                                                                                   Poor                                3.000.000.000




PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY                                                                                                 29
30   PROGRESS REPORT | PSF SUPPORT FACILITY
