                                                                                                        95497
Results Profile: Indonesia’s Community-Driven Development                                            April 27, 2010




 DIRECT PARTICIPATION

 Empowering Indonesian communities through
 developing infrastructure, services




Overview
With poverty alleviation among Indonesia’s highest priorities, the country has centered its focus
on community-driven development programs. The overall National Program for Community
Empowerment encourages local communities to participate in the planning process; provides
financial support to the communities to allow direct and transparent funding of poverty-
alleviation activities; and enhances the partnership of central and local governments to best
provide services where most needed.

  Full Brief—6 Pages
Empowering Indonesian Communities through Direct Participation in Developing Infrastructure
and Services—PDF, April 2010


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
In 1998, Indonesia faced political upheaval and
financial crisis. The country was marred by its
graft-ridden political and administrative systems
and poverty had increased tremendously. The
devaluation of the domestic currency, the
Indonesian Rupiah, by more than 50 percent and
the shutdown of many manufacturing shops had
a tremendous impact on people’s incomes.
Programs that would bypass the graft-prone top
layers of government were sought by the new
government to increase the people’s trust.

With 17,000 islands and millions of villages
across the archipelago, Indonesia had to reach
out to its poorest areas to ensure that these populations           More Results
enjoy an equal opportunity to grow and develop. Non-income
poverty is a serious problem in terms of high malnutrition and
maternal mortality rates, inadequate access to safe water

                                                                    38,000
and sanitation, and education outcomes. Furthermore,
inequality is increasing and disparities between regions
remain high. Poverty alleviation has become a priority for
                                                                    houses rehabilitated and
Indonesia.                                                          reconstructed in Aceh, Nias,
                                                                    Special Province of Yogyakarta
                                                                    and Central Java.
Approach
Despite significant progress over the past several years in
reducing poverty, many people remain poor and vulnerable.          MORE INFORMATION
Sustained economic growth has helped many Indonesians to
                                                                      World Bank in Indonesia
escape from poverty by creating jobs and permitting
                                                                      Community-Driven Development
increasing public expenditures for health, education and
infrastructure. Poverty has fallen from 16.7 percent of the           Indonesia: Local Community
population in 2004 to 14.1 percent in 2009. Although these            Participation is the Primary
gains are significant, more than 32 million Indonesians               Element to Alleviating Poverty in
                                                                      Rural Areas
currently live below the national poverty line, which is the
equivalent of US$21 per month, and approximately half of all
households remain clustered around it.
                                                                     PROJECTS
To accelerate government efforts to reduce poverty and to             National Program for Community
ensure equity and inclusiveness, on August 16, 2006, the              Empowerment in Urban Areas
President of Indonesia, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono,                     (PNPM-Urban)
announced the National Program for Community                          National Program for Community
Empowerment (Program Nasional Pemberdayaan                            Empowerment in Rural Areas
Masyarakat - PNPM) as the policy and operational umbrella             (PNPM-Rural)
for all community empowerment programs in the country.                PNPM II-Urban
The PNPM builds primarily upon the previous ten years of
successful experience with the Kecamatan Development                  PNPM II-Rural
Program (KDP) and the Urban Poverty Project (UPP), now                PNPM III-Urban
the PNPM-Rural and PNPM-Urban, respectively. Adopting a
                                                                      PNPM III-Rural
community-driven development (CDD) approach and with
technical and financial assistance from the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the PNPM is            
now a national program covering all villages and cities in the
country.

The overall PNPM objectives are being achieved through: (a) communities participating in an
open planning process; (b) the provision of grants to communities directly and transparently to
finance an open “menu” of poverty-alleviation activities; and (c) enhancing the capacity of
central and local governments to partner with community organizations in the provision of
services.


Results
From 1998 to 2006, the KDP and the UPP reached more than 50,000 urban and rural villages
and benefited more than 11 million families with significant achievements. A rigorous 2008
impact evaluation of the KDP showed that real per capita consumption gains were 11 percent
higher among poor households and the number of households moving out of poverty in poor
sub-districts was 9.2 percent higher in KDP areas compared with control areas. The evaluation
showed that, as a result of KDP participation, vulnerable households near the poverty line were
less at risk of falling into poverty and that the longer a sub-district received KDP funding the
greater was the estimated impact on rural household expenditure. The KDP reduced
unemployment by 1.5 percent in comparison with control areas.

As of October 2009, the combined KDP/PNPM-Rural and UPP/PNPM-Urban Programs have
built or rehabilitated over 62,000 kilometers of roads, 11,000 clean water supply units, 11,000
irrigation schemes, 6,500 kilometers of drainage, 17,500 village health posts and 10,000 new
schools. Also counted in addition to these projects are more than 30,000 other types of
economically-productive infrastructure activities. Some 90 million work-days have been created
from KDP/PNPM-Rural and 20 million work-days from the UPP/PNPM-Urban. Independent
technical evaluations rated the quality of the infrastructure as 91-93 percent “good” to “very
good”. An independent evaluation found that village infrastructure built through
KDP/UPP/PNPM cost significantly less – on average 56 percent less – than equivalent works
built through government contracts.

Community participation in PNPM-Rural and PNPM-Urban is high. The participation of women
in PNPM meetings averaged 45 percent. Nearly 60 percent of those who attend these
meetings are from the poorer segments of the community. The 2008 impact evaluation and
gender review did find, however, that the PNPM could do much more to promote the
participation of women and vulnerable groups.
Toward the Future
The CDD-based projects will remain the major models in alleviating poverty in Indonesia. The
Government has discussed continuing the PNPM until 2015 in two phases. The current phase
(2007-2009) is the scale-up to full national coverage of all 79,000 villages and urban wards.
After the scale-up, the PNPM would shift into a more self-sustaining mode whereby local
governments will take on greater responsibility for financing. Some local governments have
actually replicated the model, using their own funds, to implement investments in areas that
have not had previous interventions. Also over time, small poverty-reduction initiatives will be
folded into the PNPM to make programming at the community level more streamlined,
coordinated and responsive to beneficiaries’ needs.

Partners
Indonesia’s Coordinating Ministry of People’s Welfare, Ministries of Disadvantage Areas, Public
Works, Finance, Home Affairs, People’s Welfare, Cooperatives and Small Medium Enterprises,
Agriculture, Communications and Information, Marine and Fisheries, and Industry and Trade.
Governments of Australia, Canada, Denmark, The Netherlands and the United Kingdom

 


                                                    Last updated: 2010-04-27
