Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10724
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1304-EG)
JUNE 19, 1992
Industty and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS
Bcf                  Billion cubic feet
BOPD                 Barrels of oil per day
CIF                  Cost, Insurance and Freight
DAP                  Department of Petroleum Affairs
DH                   Directorate of Hydrocarbons
DHS                  Deloitte, Haskins and Sells
EEPGE                Empresa Estatal  Para la Importacion y
Commercalizacion de Produtos Petroliferos
(State Company for the Importing and
Marketing of Petroleum Products)
GEPSA                Guinea-Espanola de Petroleo S.A.
Hispanoil (REPSOL)  Spanish National Petroleum Company
LDC                  Less Developed Country
MIME                 Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy
MMbbls               Million Barrels
MMH                  Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program



THE WORLD BANK                FOR 0MCUL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Di,ectn.Genetal
Operatin Evalution
June 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Equatorial Guinea Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1304-EG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Equatorial Guinea Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1304-EG)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part
of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfiormance 
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1304-EC)
TABLE OF CONIENTS
Pag-e Ng.
PREFACE ...           ...........................................           i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................                 ii
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
A.   PROJECT IDENTITY            .......................................          1
B.   BACKGROUND .......        .....................................              1
C.   UNDP TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDITS ..........               ...........       2
D.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ....................                     4
E.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................                     5
- Exploration Activities of Oil Companies ........... .           .         5
- North Bioko Basin ...............                5
- Rio Muni Area ...................                6
- Other Components of the Projects ...               .................      7
- Follow-up to the Project ............................                     8
F.    PROJECT RESULTS ......          .................................           8
G.   SUSTAINIBILITY  ......       ..................................              9
H.   PERFORMANCE OF THE PARTIES INVOLVED ....................                     9
I.   DOCUMENTATION and DATA ............... .       .................            10
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    ROLE OF THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND HYDROCARBONS ........                    11
B.   EVALUATION OF WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE ...................                   12
C.    IMPACT OF MMH/WORLD BANK RELATIONS THROUGHOUT THE PROJECT
EXECUTION PERIOD             ..... ....... .                               12
D.   ACHIEVEMENTS DURING THE PROJECT EXECUTION PERIOD ........                  13
PART III  STATISTICAL DATA
1.    Project Time-table ......         ..............................           14
2.    Credit Cumulative Disbursements ....             ...................       15
3.   Project Implementation   .             ..............................      15
4.    Project Costs .........................................                    16
5.    Project Results . ........... ...........  .................. .            17
A.    Direct Benefits .............. ................... .                 17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



B.         Financial  Impact                                        .................................                                           17
C.          Studies  ..........................................                                                                                 18
6. *       Status  of Covenants  ......                                           .............................                                             19
7. *       Use  of  Bank  Resources  .................................                                                                                      20
A.          Staff  Inputs  .....................................                                                                                20
B.         Missions                                 ......................................                                                      20
I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1304-EG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum
Sector Assistance Credit in Equatorial Guinea, for which Credit 1304-EG in
the amount of SDR 2.3 million was approved on November 30, 1982. The Project
was closed three years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the date
of last disbursement was March 10, 1990.
This PCR was prepared by the Technical Department, Industry and
Energy Operations Division of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the this PCR was started during the last supervision
mission of the project in June 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Credit
and Project Agreements;   s_ .rvision reports;  correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



l                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1304-EG)
EVALUATION 8MAR
Obiectives
1.        Credit 1304-EG followed two UNDP Credits, which were executed by
the Bank from July 1981 to July 1983, for an aggregate amount of US$0.6
million.  Due to the experience acquired by the Bank during these credits,
the project under review was thoroughly prepared.   Similarly, its various
components and objectives were fully understood by all concerned parties.
Since the Bank's project was a continuation of the UNDP pr;Djects, this
Evaluation Summary--and Part II of the report--includes a synopsis of thp
UNDP experience.
2.        Both UNDP Credits aimed at rekindling the interest of the oil
industry in exploring the country's sedimentary basins by: (a) establishing
an appropriate legal and contractual framework for petroleum investment; (b)
carrying out a geological study of the basins aimed at outlining exploration
targets ("conceptual plays" in petroleum industry terms) suited to attract
the interest of oil companies; and (c) training the Ministry of Mines and
Hydrocarbon (MMH) staff, to enable it to negotiate with oil companies.
The UNDP Credits were broadly successful, because, by the time they
reached completion: (a) a Petroleum Code had been prepared and enacted by the
Government, (b) a petroleum exploration seminar resulted in two proposals for
offshore exploration contracts from groups led by the French companies Elf
and Total (the latter already deta.ned an onshore exploration acreage which
had been recently attributed in the Rio Muni Province); and (c) some of the
MMH staff had received a prelir..nary grounding in a wide range of petroleum
matters.
4.        Independently from UNDP and IDA activities in the petroleum sector,
and within the framework of an assistance agreement between the Governments
of Spain and of Equatorial Guinea, a mixed company (GEPSA) was created
between the Government and the Spanish national oil company Hispanoil (which
was later renamed REPSOL). GEPSA carried out seismic surveys, drilled six
exploration wells, and in 1984 discovered the gas artd condensate field,
subsequently named Alba.
5.        The Credit 1304-EG was granted by the Association in 1983.  It was
conceived to assist the Government in developing the hydrocarbon resources of
the country, and to strengthen the technical capability of MMH staff.
6.       The  main  components  of  the  Project  included:  (a)  expanding
technical assistance for promoting exploration activities; (b) strengthening
the technical capacity of the Department of Petroleum Affairs, enabling it to
interpret exploration data, negotiate with oil companies, and monitor
operating companies' activities; and (c) preparing an energy data base, a
prerequisite for planning and policy-making in the energy sector.
Imolementation Experience
7.        During  Project  implementation,  oil  companies  fulfilled  the
following program: (a) the petroleum company Total and its partners drilled



- iii -
an onshore exploration well, which was dry, carried out an offshore seismic
survey, and subsequently relinquished both its exploration contractual areas;
and (b) the Elf group implemented a seismic survey, drilled two offshore
exploration wells in its initial exploration area. In 1989, it obtained a
northward extension of this area, against the commitment to acquire new
seismic lines in 1991, and drill a well in 1992; (c) in 1989, the American
company Hamilton Oil acquired a majority equity participation in an
exploration and production acreage, detained by the promoting company
Clarion, and located in the south Rio Muni offshore. Contractual commitments
included the acquisition of seismic data, and the drilling of two wells; and
(d) REPSOL, fully occupied by development of major oil fields in other
countries, reduced exploration activities in Equatorial Guinea, leading to
the relinquishment of their exploration and production rights in March 1990.
S.        After the closure of the Project,  and with the Association's
assistance, the MMH met with Walter International, of Houston Texas, a new
entrant, to develop the Alba field. An exploration/development contract was
signed in Mtay 1990.   Walter International will:  (a) drill two appraisal/
development wells in 1990-1991; (b) develop the Alba field in 1991, with the
first production expected in November 1991, at an expected rate of 5,000
barrels of liquid hydrocarbons per day (BOPD); and (c) drill two exploration
wells i-n 1992.
Results
9.        The Government is expected to obtain from the development of the
Alba field an initial annual revenue of the order of US$3.0 million, which
will increase later in once taxes on the revenue of the contractor (profit
oil) are collected, and eventually once the State receives its share of
production. Furthermore, training efforts resulted in a unit of qualified
geologists and geophysicists within the DH.
Sustainibility
The Government revenues resulting from the production of the Alba
field will last as long as the field itself, and longer if other fields are
discovered in the meantime, which is quite posaible.
Lessons Learned
10.       The Credit was successful, since, at the time of its closure,
eighty percent of the surface area of the sedimentary basins of the country
were the subject of exploration contracts with three oil companies.   The
aggregate exploration program for the suDsequent two years comprised the
acquisition of new seismic data and the drilling of five exploration wells.
And above all, with the development of Alba field, Equatorial Guinea will in
all likelihood become an energy exporting country.
11.       A major consequence of this success is the urgent need for further
technical assistance to the DH to monitor increa3ed petroleum exploration
and, soon, production activities. Indeed, more generally, a key finding is
that well-designed and implemented TA has a high rate of return and is often
required on an ongoing basis.
12.       The implementation of the Credit has illustrated the wide range of
views that different companies may have towards the same prospect: although
the Alba field was a marginal operation for REPSOL (which belongs to the
group of oil companies which are unfamiliar with inexpensive field
development), it appeared to be an interesting prospect to Walter
International (an independent and very cost-effective company with
practically no overheads). This specificity of oil companies should be kept
in mind whenever the issue of finding an oil company to develop a given
prospect or to undertake the exploration of a given area arises.



- iv -
13.       The  independent  company  Hamilton  Oil  was  attracted  to  the
exploration of a politically-disputed area of Equatorial Guinea through the
efforts of a promoting company. Whatever the conditions of the deal between
the two companies, it was beneficial and of no cost to the country.
Reputable promoting companies should not be disregarded out of hand. The
possible results of their action should be evaluated on an individual basis
judging accordingly to the company's reputation and approach.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1304-EG)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Prolect Identity
Project Name   s   Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project
Credit No            1304-EG
RVP Unit        :   Africa Region Country Department I
Country         s   Equatorial Guinea
Sector          :   Energy
Subsector           Petroleum
B.   Backaround
1.        Equatorial Guinea covers 28,051 km2 and consists of two parts:
Insular Guinea and Continental Guinea.   Insular Guinea comprises  five
islands:  Bioko, on which is located the capital city, Malabo, and four
smaller  islands  (Corisco,  Big  Elobey,  Little  Elobey,  and  Annobon).
Continental Guinea, named Rio Muni, located at approximately 200 km to the
south of Bioko, is bordered on the north by Cameroon and on the south and
east by Gabon. When the Project started, the offshore frontier with Gabon
was disputed. The geographical configuration of Equatorial Guinea result3 in
a large offshore area, which comprises: (a) the north Bioko basin, a distal
extension of the Nigeria deltaic basin; (b) the offshore area south of Bioko
Island which is part of the seaward extension of the Douala basin; and (c) a
third basin, lying offshore from Rio Muni, and part of the northern extension
of the Gabon basin.
2.        The country became independent in 1968.  During the next eleven
years, the economy of the country, mainly based on agricultural production
and which was previously flourishing, was entirely devastated by governmental
mismanagement. The following Government, which took power in 1979, attempted
to carry out an economic and financial stabilization program. However, lack
of local expertise prevented the success of this effort. Furthermore, the
1980 import liberalization program resulted in a deterioration of the balance
of payments. In 1981, the GNP per capita was US$175; the annual deficit oi
the balance of payments amounted to US$24 million.
3.        In 1982, with UNDP assistance, the Government prepared an economic
reconstruction and development plan, aimed at revitalizing domestic food
production, at stimulating the production of export crops (mainly cocoa) and
at providing basic infrastructure. The plan included an investment program
for the energy sector, with projects aimed at providing Equatorial Guinea's
population centers with electricity, and defining an overall energy policy
taking into account the country's hydroelectric resources. The Government
also gave high priority to developing the country's oil resources (which
presented some promise given the petroleum production in neighboring
countries from basins extending into the Equatorial Guinea's national
waters).    In accordance with the country's energy  sector development
objectives and policy, the project under review aimed at assisting the
Government in this development.
4.        At the time of the preparation of the Credit, extremely difficult
conditions prevailed concerning travel and hotel availability in Equatorial
Guinea.    International  communications  were  irregular  and  infrequent.
Internal means of transport were limited.   Shortage of hotels and other
accommodation was common.  There was an extremely limited availability of



food, and no shops of any kind.  Oil company officials active in the country
lived -n Douala, travelling back and forth to Malabo by rented plane.
5.        The administration was rudimentary, overworked and without means.
There was in particular no institutional framework for petroleum-related
activities, and expertise in the sector was non-existent. The project was
prepared under extremely difficult conditions, without any local technical
support.
6.        In the early 80's, the Presidency held final responsibility for
policy decisions affecting the energy sector. The Directorate of Mines and
Hydrocarbons (DMH), administratively located in the Ministry of Industry,
Mines and Energy (MIME), had the responsibility of monitoring the activities
of the oil companies. With only two professional staff with a background in
petroleum and with no decision-making power, the Directorate was ill-equipped
for this task.   The St, -   Petroleum Products Importing and Distributing
Compary (EEPGE), operated as an autonomous public enterprise. The Ministry
of De-'elopment and of Finance and Commerce albo played a role in pricing and
investment decisions affecting the energy sector. The main issues r3garding
the   institutional   organization  were:   (a)  dispersed- and   sometimes
conflicting--Ministerial responsibili_ies for petroleum policy; and (b) the
Government's lack of qualified and appropriately trained staff in the
petroleum sector.
7.        All petroleum products are imported.  As a result of the reopening
of the country following the establishment of a new regime, petroleum
consumption increased significantly (in 1980, consumption was 70% over the
preceding year's levels). The aggregate amount of petroleum product imports
remained small however (USS5 million in 1980). This amount was expected to
increase rapidly.   Because of small and irregular shipments, CIF import
prices were 30-35 percent above international market prices.
8.        In the late 1960s and early 1970s, four groups of oil companies
were engaged in exploring the country's sedimentary basins. They spent about
US$20 million for the acquisition of 8,000 km of seismic lines and to drill
seven wells.   Three of these wells had oil shows, in particular a well
drilled in 1967 by Mobil on the Alba structure. Exploration activities were
interrupted in the mia-1970's because of a deteriorating investment climate.
The Government which took power in 1979 indicated ita intention to encourage
foreign investment, in particular in the petroleum sector.
C.   UNDP Technical Assistance Credits
9.        The Gover:.zent sought technical assistance in 1980 from both UNDP
and the Wor.d Bank to attract the oil industry in the exploration for
petroleum of the country's sedimentary basins.   Following an agreement
between UNDP and the Bank, UNDP granted in July 1981 and July 1983
respectively, two technical assistance Credits to be executed by the Bank for
an aggregate amount of US$0.6 million (EQG/80/016/A/01/42).   Both Credits
were totally disbursed.
10.       Under UNDP financing, legal consultants were contracted by the Bank
to prepare the legal and contrac:ual framework for hydrocarbon exploration
and production activities. They were selected following proposals received
from three highly qualified legal firms. As a result, a Hydrocarbon Law was
promulgated on June 23, 1981 and a production-sharing model contract was
finalized in January 1982. The Law provided for an initial five-year term,
and for two renewal periods of one year each. Royalties were set up at 10
percent and income tax at 45 percent. Signature bonuses, work commitments,
and the Government's share of production were in each case to be established
through bidding.   Furthermore, according to a contractual innovation, the
Government's share would be increased when the Company's rate-of-return would
exceed negotiated thresholds. In August 1982, the Government issued a decree



-3-
authorizing competitive bidding for hydrocarbon exploration rights in the
offshore areas.
11.       An exploration consulting firm (Petroconsultants S.A.--PSA) was
contracted following proposals received from three qualified companies. A
contract was signed between PSA and IBRD.  The scope of ito work included
retrieving and reinterpreting past geological and geophysical data.   The
consultants carried out their task in a very satisfaotory manner. The final
report on Equatorial Guinea's hydrocarbon potential was presented to the
Government in May 1981. Eventually, six oil companies bought the repo"t.
12.       The exploration consultants also assisted in the preparation of
bidding documents. The Bank brought together existing technical and legal
documents and dispatched them to the oil industry.
13.       In the meantime, the Spanish oil company Hispanoil had entered into
an exploration contract covering the sedimentary basin north of Bioko Island,
as part of the assistance provided by Spain to Equatorial Guinea,. A mixed
company, Guinea-Espafiola de Petroleo S.A. (GEPSA), was created, with equal
ownership by the Government and Hispanoil. GEPSA, with Hispanoil financing,
carried out a seismic survey covering the whole area, and subsequently
requested and obtained a contract, dated February 6, 1982, covering four
blocks (totalling approximately 1,800 km2) located in the southern portion of
the basin. Negotiations with GEPSA were completed within the framework of
the newly-enacted Hydrocarbon Law.
14.       By that time, many oil companies had indicated, either to the Bank
or directly to the Government, their interest in exploring the Equatorial
Guinea offshore basins. Oil prices were currently about US$35 per barrel.
However, the Bank and UNDP had endeavored to promote a rational, orderly and
systematic bidding procedure in order to assure the highest possible
competition for acreage and thus maximize the long-term benefits to the
country.   To that effect, no exploration contract could be negotiated or
signed before the bidding deadline.
15.       In agreement with the interested oil pompanies, the bidding date
was set at March 23, 1983. On December 6 and 7, 1982, promotional seminars
for exploration acreage were organized in Geneva by the Government's
exploration consultants. The meeting was attended by the representatives of
sixteen oil companies.
16.       Seven companies, urganized in two groups, presented bide for the
five available blocks in the Rio Muni area. Elf, which led a five company
group, presented a bid on three blocks, with work commitments including a
3,000 km seismic program, and one well in the third year.   Total (which
already detained recently acquired onshore exploration acreage as part of an
association with Pacten), bid in association with Getty on two offshore
blocks under a seismic option proposal. The Government was assisted in their
negotiations with the oil companies by a highly qualified legal consultant,
provided by Petroconsultants S.A. (PSA).
17.       Also under the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed Technical Assistance
Credits, six GEPSA employees or Government officials received an introductory
presentation in Venezuela about petroleum exploration techniques.
18.       As a condition of obtaining the Bank's Credit, a Department of
Petroleum Affairs (DAP) was created, to centralize the management of the
petroleum sector and to establish the country's petroleum policy. Following
a request from the President of the Republic, the DAP was located within the
Presidency.    The DAP was  supposed to  incorporate  the Directorate of
Hydrocarbons  (DP).   According to the Bank's opinion at that time, the
administrative location of the DAP within the Presidency would enhance its
effectiveness.



-4-
19.       However, the Government, whether in the DAP or the MIME, only had
an inexperienced skeleton staff for implementing its task in the petroleum
sector.   Exploration activities,  limited at that time to GEPSA's work
program,  would soon be increased because of the new contracts.    The
Government therefore requested, in order to meet its responsibility ~.n the
sector, further consulting services and technical staff training programs.
20.       At the final stage of the UNDP-financed project, a lingering issue
affected the bidding process: Equatorial Guinea and Gabon had not yet agreed
on the exact definition of the offshore boundaries separating both countries.
The Government had to exclude a potentially prospective area eight kilometers
wide along the Gabonese border from the acreage which was put out to tender.
D.   Prolect Objectives and Description
21.       In April 1982, a resident consultant was hired to assist the
Government in its project preparation activities, and in facilitating
communications among all parties involved.  This assistance, which proved
very useful, was financed under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance
granted by the Association on April 19, 1982.   The advance amount was
US$150,000 of which US$69,895 was actually disbursed.
22.       The experience, acquired by the Bank during the execution of the
two successive UNDP grants, resulted in a conceptual foundation for the
project which was clear and well-understood by both the Borrower and the
Bank
23.       The project was designed to expand the petroleum exploration
promotional efforts carried out under UNDP financing, and to strengthen the
technical capability of the DAP to monitor exploration activities carried out
by oil companies. It also was intended to focus on the preparation of an
energy data base, which is a prerequisite for planning and policy making in
the energy sector.
24.       The Project included the following major components:
(a) Exploration Monitoring:
Consultants to the Government in: (i) evaluating the financial and
technical aspects of oil companies' proposals; and (ii) monitoring
the oil companies' exploration and production activities;
(b) The Establishment of an Enerav-Sector Information System:
Consultants to help establish a data base on energy output, imports
and demand, and would prepare recommendations on the methodological
and technical aspects of energy data collection;
(c) Proiect Administration:
A resident project administrator for an aggregate period of about
36 man-months;
(d) Trainina:
On-the-job training of Government staff under agreed terms of
reference for all consultants and contractors. In addition, three
internships to train Government officials in petroleum exploration
and petroleum economics; and



-5-
(e) Eruinment:
Office units with equipment and supplies; and vehicles for DAP
staff and consultants.
S.   Proiect Imolementation
25.       When the project started, GEPSA was already well-advanced in its
exploration program. In addition, negotiations with both Elf and Total were
expected to start very soon. It was therefore urgent to select, and hire the
consultants who would be in charge of assisting the Government in monitoring
exploration activities, and in negotiating new exploration and production
contracts.
26.       On February 15, 1983, the Government made a request to keep the
same consultant firm which had already provided assistance for petroleu3m
exploration and contract negotiation, because of its satisfactory past
service and its staff's knowledge of the country's geology.  The Bank agreed
with this request, and, until the end of the Credit, Petroconsultants S.A.
assisted the Government in all the activities included in the Project, with
the exception of the auditing of the Credit account.
27.       Negitiations both with Total and Elf were quickly completed.  The
Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons signed exploration/p' -duction contracts on
November 15, 1983 with the Total group (two offshore biocks, located in the
Rio Muni area, in association with Getty) and on December 15, 1983 with the
El3 group (three blocks, in association wich Ultramar, Agip, Murphy and
Rimrock, also located in the Rio Muni offshore area).
28.       Following proposals from five audit companies, the firm DHS of
Spain, was awarded a contract to: (a) carry out the annual audit of the
Credit account; and (b) train the DAP's accounting staff in maintaining
appropriate accounts of the Credit. The contract was signed on October 28,
1985.   Since DHS's work was carried out to a satisfactory standard, the
firm's contract was renewed until the end of the Credit.
ExDloration Activities of Oil Companies
North Bioko Basin
29.       The Spanish company Hispanoil,  on behalf of GEPSA,  conducted
exploration activities which included the acquisition of 5,019 km of seismic
lines, and the drilling of six wells. These exploration efforts led in March
1984 to the discovery of the Alba gas and condensate ficild, where a well
drilled by Mobil in 1967 had discovered oil shows.
30.       In 1986, the Government' s exploration consultants assessed the
recoverable reserves contained in the Alba field. As a result of this study,
the consultant estimated the recoverable reserves as follows:
Proven       Proven          Proven
& Probable     & Probable
& Possible
Dry Gas         (Bcf)               535.0        847.0           1,363.0
Condensate      (MMbbls)             27.3         42.5              68.5
31.       GEPSA  obtained  a  provisional  discovery  acreage,   largely
encompassing the Alba field. However, the disappointing results obtained by



the exploration of the northern area of the basin, and the marginal character
of the Alba field, led Hispanoil to relinquish its exploration acreage in
1988, and to delay the appraisal of the discovery even beyond its contractual
commitments.
32.       Since Hispanoil did not agree to carry out, either the appraisal
of the ALBA field discovery or the exploration of adjoining areas in
accordance with its contractual obligations, the Government canceled the
GEPSA contract on March 15, 1990.
33.       In February 1990, (after the closing date of the Credit), during
a visit paid to the Bank in Washington, the Director of Hydrocarbons of the
Ministry was introduced by the Association to a few independent oil companies
which could develop the Alba field. One of them, Walter International of
Houston (Texas), signed an exploration/production contract on May 5, 1990,
and spudded an appraisal/production well in July 1990.  In 1991-1992, the
company will: (a) drill two exploration wells; and (b) proceed to the
development  of  the  Alba  field.    According  to  Walter  International
projections, gas and condensate are expected to flow in or about November
1991.
34.       During the first phase of the development and the production of
Alba field, before the full recovery of Walter International's exploration
and development  costs,  the Government will  receive  an annual  revenue
corresponding to its 10% overriding royalty on the field revenues, amounting
to approximately US$3.0 million (assuming a crude oil price of US$16 per
barrel and a production rate of 5,000 BOPD). Following recovery of Walter
International's exploration and development expenses (after about three
years), the annual share of the Government will be increased by the taxes
paid by the Contractor on profit oil. Later on, when the real rate of return
of the Contractor reaches 30%, the Government would additionally obtain a 30%
share of profit oil.
Rio Muni Area
35.       In its onshore contractual area, Total carried out a 255 km seismic
survey, and drilled an exploration well which was abandoned dry at the depth
of 1,145 meters. In its offshore acreage, the company acquired 1,405 km of
seismic lines, and did not exercise its option to drill an exploration well.
Both contractual areas were relinquished by the end of 1985.
36.       Elf acquired 3,058 km of seismic lines (i.e. about 50% over its
contractual commitments) in its offshore Rio Muni contract area, and drilled
two exploration wells which were both abandoned dry.   According to its
interpretation of exploration results, Elf estimated that the exploration
prospect shifted north within the previous Total acreage. In early 1986, Elf
applied for a northward extension of its contract area. This proposal met
with legal difficulties, since the Hydrocarbon Law made it obligatory to: (a).
award exploration contracts for new areas through a bidding process only; and
(b) limit the surface of any new exploration contract area to 2,650 kms,
while Elf's request covered an area of 4,540 kms.   Following lengthy
negotiations, a new exploration contract was signed on April 11, 1989.
Technical commitments included:
(a)  during  the  first  contractual  year:  seismic  reprocessing  and
reinterpretation;
(b)  during the second year: acquisition of new seismic data; and
(c)  during the third year: drilling an exploration well.
37.       The American oil exploration promoter Clarion entered into a
petroleum exploration contract on July 1, 1989, covering an area located in
the offshore zone disputed with the Republic of Gabon. On March 29, 1990,



Hamilton took over a majority equity participation in the project, as well as
responsibility for operation. Technical commitments include: (a) a 2,500 km
seismic survey which will be carried out in 1991; and (b) two exploration
wells which will be drilled whenever the offshore border litigation with the
Republic of Gabon is settled.
38.       The Government has received an aggregate amount of approximately
US$38 million in terms of rentals and bonuses from past oil company
activities.
39.       The Republic of Gabon's initial grounds for disputing a portion of
its border area with Equatorial Guinea stemmed from a previous authorization
granted by Spain to France to set up a beacon on the Coqueircs Islands.
Gabon has restricted its territorial claim both subsequent to its discussions
with the Government of Equatorial Guinea and as a result of the permit
granted by the same Government in the disputed area.   The Government of
Equatorial Guinea hopes to resolve this question to its satisfaction shortly.
40.       The Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons proposed entering into two
contracts in September 1985 with two different parts of the same company
which had a poor reputation: (a) under the first contract, the company would
provide  technical  assistance  to  the  Government  in  all  petroleum
exploration/production related matters, agairst an overriding royalty on
hydrocarbons revenues; and (b) the second contract established a joint
venture between the company and the Government, which would grant exclusive
exploration rights over the totality of the offshore area south of the
latitude of the Bahia de Corriscos (over 30 blocks), against insignificant
technical commitments (the drilling of one exploration well over a period of
five years).  Before promulgating the decrees, the Government asked for the
opinion of its exploration consultant.  Supported by the Association, the
consultant expressed his concern regarding: (a) the misallocation of
resources  in the country;  (b)  the probable  negative  feedback on the
Government  in the oil industry;  and  (c)  inadequate protection of the
Government's interests.   Furthermore,  the signed contracts included the
establishment of a national petroleum company.   The final result of the
operation was a one year delay in the implementation of the project under
review.   Following the recommendations of both its consultant and the
Association, the Government never promulgated the decrees concerned, and the
company involved withdrew from the scene.
Other Components of the Proiects
41.       The  training  component  of  the  project  was  satisfactorily
implemented. Training programs included: (a) DH staff attendance at various
seminars, such as a conference organized in Rome about petroleum exploration
contract negotiation; (b) systematic courses covering all petroleum
exploration/production matters organized by the MMH exploration consultant;
(c) accounting training provided by the audit company DHS; and (d) on-the-job
instruction provided by oil companies operating in the country. DH staff
needs further training and continued consultirg services.  In the meantime,
a small technical unit has been established, able to deal with most petroleum
exploration matters.
42.       The construction of the office units for the DH was prepared by a
Spanish architectural company, selected according to Bank guidelines. The
Association participated actively in the elaboration of the building design.
Construction work was awarded to the French company Colas, following the
assessment of proposals received from two companies. Building construction,
performed under the supervision of an architect provided by the DH's
exploration consultant, was started in 1986, completed in 1988, and accepted
by the DH in 1989.  The total cost was about US$680,000.   It  currently
houses the office of the Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons and all of DH's
departments.



43.       The Direction of  Petroleum  Affairs  (DAP)  had been  located,
according to the request of the President of the Republic, within the
Presidency. However, the Direction of Hydrocarbons (DH) remained within the
MMH, and managed both the petroleum activities in the country and the
implementation of the Credit effectively. The DAP's role in the petroleum
sector progressively decreased and it disappeared in 1986.   The preuent
institutional set-up and housing arrangements for DH are satisfactory.
44.       A Spanish company was selected upon a call for bids to provide the
DH with all necessary office furniture, which was carried out satisfactorily.
The purchase of five cars, with appropriate spare parts, had been previously
financed under the Credit.
45.       The DH exploration consultant assessed all available data about the
energy sector in Equatorial GLtnea, in order to establish an energy-sector
information center. It was found that available information was scarce and
scattered.    The consultant also recommended collecting information on
household energy consumption in the provinces, but this was never done. If
Equatorial Guinea becomes an oil-exporting country, the establishment of such
an information center will be all the more necessary.
Follow-uo to the Proiect
46. As mentioned in the President's Report, during project preparation it
was established that CIF import prices of petroleum products were 30-35
percent above international refinery prices. However, the Bank's management
had not yet decided at the time to become involved in petroleum supply and
distribution matters, and the issue was not initially addressed in the
project.
47.       Further urgent DH needs for technical and financial assistance were
identified, but funds under the Credit were exhausted, the Association agreed
to finance the necessary consulting services under the on-going Technical
Assistance Credit (Credit 1489-EG). The main issue to be addressed is the
high cost of petroleum products in Equatorial Guinea.
48.         The supply of petroleum products to the country is under the
responsibility of Total Afrique. The operation of the internal distribution
system is under monopoly control of a jointly-owned company (Government/Total
Afrique). The unloading, storage and distribution facilities are owned by
the  Government.    Several  years  of  neglect  have  resulted  in  serious
deterioration of all equipment. The French Caisse Centrale has granted a
Credit to rehabilitate these facilities.
49.       A consultant was hired under the credit to study the supply and
distribution of petroleum products in Equatorial Guinea.   After having
completed the study, he made the following recommendations, with which the
Association agrees: (a) provide greater transparency of information on the
cost build-up and basis for the CIF price of products to Equatorial Guinea;
(b) reduce demurrage costs; (c) organize a governmental body to approve and
control the internal price structure: (d) rationalize petroleum products
storage capacity by decommissioning part of the storage tanks; and (e)
establish a petroleum products retail price structure which would eliminate
the current cost-plus arrangement.   The Government will seek consultant's
asistance to implement these recommendations.
F. Proiect Results
50.       The Credit was successful since, at the time of its closure, eighty
percent of the surface area of the sedimentary basins of the country had been
covered under exploration contracts with three oil companies. The aggregate
exploration program for the next two years comprises the acquisition of new
seismic data and the drilling of three to five wells. And above all, with



-9-
the development of the Alba condensate and gas field, the country will become
a hydrocarbon-producing country.
51.       The expected increase in the Government's petroleum revenues
obtained through the project results from the replacement of REPSOL (which
had let its exploration and production rights lapse) by the more aggressive
and cost effective oil company, Walter International.  The Bank played a
significant role in having the contractual rights of the Government
respected, and in finding the right company to take over the development of
the field. The difference in expected revenues deriving from the change of
contractor results from: (a) different contractual terms (the Government has
no equity participation in the W.I. development contract); and (b) lower
development costs. However, since the Government has not provided the Bank
with a copy of the contract with W.I., it is not possible to evaluate with
any accuracy the actual increase of Government's revenue.
52.       The training program implemenced under the Credit resulted in the
establishment within the DH of a technical unit able to provide useful
assistance to the Government in the field of petroleum exploration. However,
the DH still needs assistance for monitoring the increased exploration and
production activities in the country, particularly the development of the
Alba field.
G.   Sustainabilitv of above results
53.       Production of the Alba field is expected to last about fifteen
years, and during the same period, the Government will receive substantial
revenues from the sale of petroleum. Moreover, it is quite possible that
further exploration efforts will result in new discoveries, which would
provide long-term revenues to the Government.
54.       The  close monitoring  of  long-term petroleum exploration  and
production activities will strengthen and maintain DH's expertise in these
fields.
H.   Performance of the Parties Involved
55.       The Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons (MMH) and its Direction of
Hydrocarbons (DH) managed the project in line with Bank guidelines in respect
of the hiring of consultants or contractors.  They took full advantage of
training, in particular in the field of relations with oil companies.
However, the DH did not always keep the Bank informed of the different events
occurring locally in the petroleum subsector.
56.       The Bank monitored project preparation and implementation phases
closely, and was particularly successful in advising the Government regarding
the different qualifications of different companies. The Bank participated
efficiently in negotiations with GEPSA, and when this company had
disappeared, played an important role in helping find an appropriate company
to develop the Alba field.
57.       Following the sound relationship established between the Government
and the Bank under the UNDP-financed Bank-executed Credits, a mutual
understanding prevailed during most of the implementation of the Credit, and
contributed significantly to its success.
58.       All the consultants involved in the project played a satisfactory
role, in particular the exploration consultant, PSA, which implemented its
multiple tasks throughout the life of the project efficiently.   This
consultant assisted the DH in monitoring the oil companies' activities with
efficiency, and in advising the Government when an unqualified company
proposed a questionable exploration contract.



- 10 -
59.       Furthermore, the training program provided by DHS resulted in the
establishment of an appropriate accounting system within the DH. The credit
accounts were correctly followed up by the DH throughout the life of the
project and regularly audited by DHS.
I.  DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
60.       The project was well-documented in the Bank's files,  and the
preparation of this PCR was supported by adequate documentation, including
complementary information provided by the Borrower.
61.       The  legal  documents  were  a useful  reference  during  project
implementation.   The covenants in the Credit Agreement provided useful
benchmarks during the implementation of the Project.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1304-EG)
PART IIt PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The above-mentioned project began in May 1982 and was concluded
on December 31, 1990. This Report describes the performance of both the
Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons (MMH) and the World Bank during the
project execution period and the impact of the relationship between the
Ministry and the Bank on the execution process; it also gives the
Ministry's opinion on the benefits achieved through the project.
A.   Role of the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons
1.        During execution of the project, the Ministry played a vital
role in achieving the objectives set, acting as the real coordinator of all
work undertaken by consultants within Equatorial Guinea.
2.        For the preliminary and final reports from Petroconsultants S.A.
on the country's hydrocarbon potential, the Ministry provided the
consultants with all required material support, including full background
data.
3.        The designation of several members of MMHL technical staff as
counterparts to the consultants greatly facilitated the latter's work, and
specifically their assembly and selection of a considerable volume of data,
much of which MMH staff had put together prior to their arrival, thereby
undoubtedly lightening their workload. At the same time, the whole process
provided a training occasion for MMH technical staff.
4.        Despite the shortage of space in the old MMH building during the
first four years of the project execution period, which made it difficult
to accommodate technical staff and avoid inconveniencing the consultants,
MMH succeeded in having offices available for the consultants at all times.
5.        Where World Bank missions were concerned, MMH provided full-
scale support for them in the form of information requested, means of
transportation, and the general paperwork involved in obtaining entry visas
to the Republic and hotel and airplane reservations for mission members.
The same services were provided as necessary for staff of Petroconsultants
S.A. and Deloitte.
6.        As to the training programs for MMH staff, it is the MMH opinion
that the goals set for this project component were successfully achieved.
7.        The few technicians who were available at the outset of the
project benefited from training courses devised by MMH in conjunction with
the project consultants.
8.        Local personnel were trained both abroad and within the
Republic. Generally speaking, training abroad took the form of courses,
seminars, symposiums, etc. organized by agencies and private enterprises
connected with the petroleum sector, while local training consisted of
traineeships on oil platforms operated by companies with drilling rights in
the Republic.



- 12 -
9.        This training equipped the personnel who took part in it with
sufficient experience and practical knowledge to carry out oil exploration
activities and implement other strategies forming part of the overall
planning for the energy sector as a whole.
10.       Although the services of technical consultants were available,
MMH itself added appreciably to its own proficiency during the course of
the project, to the extent that on several occasions (from 1988 onward) it
was able to conduct certain negotiations unaided. In addition, it took the
initiative in promoting areas with direct contacts with oil companies,
thereby producing significant results of vital importance to the future of
Equatorial Guinea.
11.       However, despite MMH's solid performance, quarterly progress
reports were sometimes late, a consequence of shortcomings in
communications and other links between Equatorial Guinea and other
countries. The situation has now improved, thanks to the creation of
telephone, telex, telegram, express mail, etc. services with the exterior.
B.   Evaluation of World Bank performance
12.       During the period when Credit 1304-EG was being executed, the
World Bank played an exceptional role.
13.       MMH fully acknowledges the role played by the Bank, and
specifically by its officers directly responsible for matters affecting
Equatorial Guinea, a team which at all times provided MMH with the
technical assistance it needed in selecting consultants as efficiently as
possible.
14.       One consequence of the careful selection of consultants was that
the objectives proposed for the project were actually achieved.
15.       MMH is cognizant of the effort and seriousness the Bank put into
designing the training program for MMH personnel; all suggestions put
forward concerning it were well received within the Bank, a factor which
contributed to the successful implementation of training courses.
16.       Mention should be made of the Bank's initiative in proposing
programs to the Government. A case in point was that of the energy sector
reports, as a result of which the methods followed throughout the country
for the supply and distribution of petroleum products were scrutinized.
17.       It only remains to point out that a high staff turnover rate
caused delays in reaching certain decisions, although this difficulty was
gradually corrected over the course of the project.
18.       In MMH's judgment, the assistance provided by the Bank was
excellent, and it sincerely wishes to thank all Bank officers who made
implementation of the project possible.
C.   Is=act of NMHIWorld Bank relations throughout the Droiect execution
oeriod
19.       Throughout the period when Credit 1304-EG was being implemented,
relations between the MMH and the World Bank were excellent. An atmosphere
of friendliness and understanding prevailed at all times and doubtless
facilitated successful completion of the program as designed.
20.       There were almost no instances of friction between the two
institutions over the seven years it took to complete the project, and
certainly no conflict surfaced during that time. This contributed to the



- 13 -
successful culmination of what was in fact a vast program, which it is
hoped to complete during the second phase of the project.
D.   Achievements during the prolect execution oeriod
21.       It ma-) be affirmed without hesitation that the Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project amply achieved the key goals proposed for it
at the appraisal stage, namely.
(a) Eighty-five percent of the country's sedimentary basins
were covered by three oil companies with an intensive
program of exploration and proeaction activities that would
have a significant impact on the country's macroeconomic
development.
(b)  Within the MMH institutional structure, a group of
technicians was successfully established which will
eventually ensure that MMH will be capable of optimum
exploration and exploitation of domestic petroleum
resources.
(c) Local personnel were provided with sufficient practical
training and experience to equip them to carry out oil
exploration activities and implement other strategies
forming part of a coherent plan for the energy sector as a
whole.
(d) An accounting and administrative system was successfully
introduced within the Department of Petroleum Affairs, and
the Department's real needs were determined as regards
internal cost accounting, contracts, audits and financial
data on companies operating in the domestic hydrocarbon
sector, and ability to verify oil company exploration and
production costs.
(e) It was determined what categories of information the oil
companies would be required to remit to MMH, and what
arrangements for agreeing on external and/or government
audits would apply, two steps which made the Government's
exercise of control over the oil companies easier.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1304-EG)
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA
1.   Related Bank Credit
Credit                          Year of
Title           Purpose         Approval        Status          Comments
CR. 1489-EG   Macroeconomic       1984        on-going        Available funds
Technical                      (will be       were used to
Assistance                     closed in      finance last
March 92)      phase of Credit
1304-EG
2.   Proiect Time-Table
Date: Planned   Date:Revised   Date:Actual
First mention in files                                          05/04/80
Initial project brief                                           12/02/81
Issues Paper                                                    12/09/81
Decision meeting                                                12/17/81
Credit negotiation                                              09/17/82
(in the field)
Board approval                                                  11/30/82
Signing date                                                    01/18/83
Effective date                                                  05/18/83
Credit closing                  12/31/86        12/31/89        12/31/89
Credit completion               06/30/86        12/31/89        12/31/89
N.B. No appraisal report was prepared before the project.



- 15 -
3.   Credit Cumulative Disbursements
US$ millions
FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89
Appraisal (cumulative)           0.6  1.5   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4
Actual (cumulative)                   0.3   0.5   0.8   1.6   2.3   2.7
Actual as % of appraisal           0  20    21    33    67    96    112
SDR millions
Appraisal (cumulative)           0.6  1.4   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3
Actual (cumulative)                   0.2   0.5   0.8   1.5   2.0   2.3
Actual as % of appraisal         0    14    22    35    65    87    100
Comment:  Last disbursement was effected on March 10, 1990.
4.   Proiect Implementation
Appraisal            Actual
Key Indicators                           Estimate             Estimate
ExDloration Monitorinq
Selection and Hiring of Consultants       10/06/83              03/84
Assistance in contract negotiation        03/83-12/83         03/83-12/83
Company Monitoring                        04/83-06/85         03/84-04/90
Re-evaluation of Hydrocarbon             12/83, 12/84           NOT DONE 1/
Potential                                 and 12/85
1/   Annual re-evaluation of hydrocarbon potential was soon found to be
unrealistic. However, hydrocarbon potential evaluation of local
areas, in the Rio Muni and Corisco Bay regions, was conducted
throughout the project.



- 16 -
Appraisal            Actual
Estimate           Estimate
Enerav Sector Information
Selection and Hiring of Consultants       06/83                 03/84
Energy Data Collection and                11/82-03/84         04/84-12/86
Energy Consumption Survey
Final Report                                09/84                04/87
Scholarohios
Studies Abroad                            10/83-12/85           04/85-06/88
5.   Proiect Costs and Financina
A. Proiect Costs
(in USS '000)
*-----Appraisal Estimate-----*  -----Actual----------*
Foreign    Local   Tctal    Foreign   Local        Total
Vehicles,            570          0     570         924          0     924
equipment
supplies
and office
units
Consultant's       1,080        150    1,230     1,568        150     1,718
services
Training             120          0      120        181         0       181
(including
travel
expenses)
Local Staff and        0        155      155          0        155      155
Support Service
Baseline costs    1,770         305    2,075      2673         305    2,978
Physical             180         30      210          0          0        0
Contingencies
Price                350         60      410          0          0        0
Contingencies
TOTAL               2,300       395    2,695     2,673         305    2,978
Comment:  - Local costs were met with the maintenance of vehicles,
and purchase of (a) corresponding spare parts, and (b) fuel.



- 17 -
B. Proiect Financina
Planned
(President
S-ourcfl            Report)              Final
(US$'000)          (US$'000)
IDA                        2,540               2,823
Government                   155                 155
TOTAL                   2,695               2,978
6.   Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal          Estimated at         Estimated at
Indicators          Eatimate           Closina Date       Full DeveloDment
Attracting oil       Timid               Objective       Activities of oil
companies           expectation           fully met      companies is
expected to be
maintained for next
decade
Discovery of      Rated as possible      Objective       Will have a
Hydrocarbons                             met             significant
impact on
economic
development
Energy              Government to                        Not met
Information         undertake
System              coherent
energy planning
Development of       Government to       Objective       Expertise expected
local expertise      conduct             partly met      to further develop
hydrocarbon                         with prolonged
exploration                         contacts with oil
companies.
B.  Financial Imnact
Financial benefits from the project result essentially from the
development of ALBA field.   The Government will initially receive a 10%
annual royalty,  amounting approximately to US$3.0 million.    When the
Contractor has recovered its development costs (after a period of about three
years), the Government will additionally receive the corporate tax as paid by
the Contractor, which amounts to approximately US$6 million annually. After
a period of seven to eight years following the commencement of the
production, the Government will add3tionally obtain its share of oil profits,
rasulting in a Government aggregate ennual revenue of approximately US$15
million.  The above numbers are approximate, since the Government has not
provided the Bank with a copy of the contract with Walter International.



- 18 -
C. Studies
All the studies indicated below were completed, with copies given
to the Bank.
STUDIES                         IMPACT OF STUDY
Hydrocarbon Resources (PSA) 2/
Three exploration/production
Interpretation of the seismic        contracts were signed upon
data acquired by oil companies       presentation of the report
(one report was drafted for each   to the oil industry
survey) (PSA):
(i) TOTAL/PECTEN
(ii) TOTAL/GETTY
(iii)ELF-Aquitaine
(Rio Muni offshore)
(iv) GEPSA (area of Bioko)
(v) GEPSA-CONOCO
(Corisco Bay) 3/
Technical Comments on the Alba field
development study (PSA)
Energy Planning - Volume 1 (The                 The report includes appropriate
Energy  Sector in Equatorial Guinea)            recommendations which have yet
and Volume 2 (Establishment of a                to be applied
Statistics Unit within the DH) (PSA)
ALBA field economics appraisal (PSA)
Petroleum Geology of the Bioco Area            Good report: it was used to
present the ALBA field to oil
companies (Ref. Part I -
paragraph 49 above), which
resulted eventually in the
signature of Walter Inter-
national's contract
2/   The most important reports are underlined.
3/   The five above mentioned reports regarding seismic interpretation are
the local updating of the initial Petroleum evaluation report, as
mentioned in Part III - paragraph 3 above.



- 19 -
7.   Status of Covenants
Covenants                            Status
The Borrower shall:
A.   employ consultants and                   Covenant met
experts (Section 3.02 (a)
of the Development Credit
Credit Agreement)
B.   furnish to the Association               Covenant met
copies of documents and reports
as prepared by consultants
(Section 3.02 (c))
C.   provide local support to the            Covenant met
experts and consultants
(3.02 (e))
D.   furnish to the Association a             Covenant met
list of the candidates to be
trained (3.02 (f)(i))
E.   furnish annual reports on the            Covenant not met
progress made by trained
professionals'(3.02 (f) (ii))
F.   ensure that such professionals          Covenant met
remain in its service for at
least five years (3,02 (f) (iii))
G.   cause all goods and services             Covenant met
financel under the Credit to be
used exclusively for the purposes
of the Project (3.03 (b)
H.   furnish quarterly and annual             Covenant met
reports on the progress of the
Project (3.04 (b)
I.   forward to the Association              Covenant no longer relevant:
proposal to upgrade key position        prerogatives of the DPA
in the DPA (3.05)                       were transferred to the DH
J.   advise the Association on the            Covenant not met: the
measures taken to establish the         recommended system is
energy sector information system        still to be applied
(3.06)
K.   inform the Association promptly         Covenant not always met
of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with the
implementation of the project
(3.07)
L.   have the Project's accounts              Covenant met
audited for each fiscal year
(4.01 (B))



~~~~  * - *muum    mum               mu 
- 20 -
8.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(in weeks)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle               Actual               Comments
Monitoring of                     15
UNDP-financed
Credits
Identification                    21.7                 Since no appraisal
through appraisal                                    report was prepared,
the Decision Meeting
was taken as the
reference date
Appraisal through                 85.2
Signing Date
Supervision                       90
TOTAL                            211.9
B. Missions
Month/          No. of persons and        Specialization                   Place
Year            davs in the field           represented  Performance    vited
Monitorina of UNDP-financed Credits
11/79                1        15              ECO.           1           Malabo
03/80                1        14             Fin. A.         1           Malabo
03/80                1        4               LEG            1           Malabo
04/80                1        2               LEG & FIN. A. 1          New-York
From Identification to Appraisal  4/
05/81                 3        7           Pe LEG & FIN.A.  1            Malabo
09/81                 1       1               FIN. A.        1            Paris
03/82                 2      12            Pe & FIN.A.       1           Malabo
03-04/82              2       5            Pe & FIN.A.       1           Malabo
04/82                 2       3            Pe & FIN. A.      1           Geneve
12/81                 1       1               LEG            1           Geneve
4/   As in the case of the chapter 7. A above, since no appraisal was
carried out, the reference date was picked at the Decision Meeting.



- 21 -
From AoDraisal to Sianina Date
05/82                 1       7               FIN. A.        1           Malabo
07/82                 1       7               FIN. A.        1           Malabo
09/82                 3       5            Pe LEG & FIN. A. 1            Malabo
11/82                 1       7               FIN.A.         1           Malabo
12/82                 3        5           Pe LEG & FIN. A. 1            Geneve
Supervision
07/83                 1       6                FIN. A.       1           Malabo
12/83                 1       3                    Pe        1           Malabo
01/85                 4       5            FIN. A./Pe/EGN   1            Malabo
03/86                 2       5              EGN & FIN.A.   1            Geneve
03/87                 2       5              EGN & Geo       1           Madrid
06/88                 2       5              EGN & Geo       1           Malabo
01/89                 1       5                   Geo        1           Malabo
05/89                 1       5                   Geo        1           Malabo
01/90                 1       5                   Geo        1           Malabo
06/90                 1       5                   Geo        1           Malabo
A.   Key for Status
1 - no problem
2 - minor problems
3 - major problems
B.   Key for specialization
ECO.      Economist
EGN.      Engineer
FIN. A.   Financial Analyst
GEO.      Geologist/Geophysicist
LEG.      Lawyer
PE.       Petroleum Engineer



