Document of
The World Bank                        t T
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3401-EG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$2.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FOR A
PETROLEUM SECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 8, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclesed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981   September 1982
Currency Unit  =  Epkwele (EK)2/          EK
US$1.00  =   EK 190.988         EK 225.899
EK1,000  =   US$  5.24          US$  4.43
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bpd            =  barrels per day
m3            =  cubic meter (6.3 barrels
of oil)
toe           =  ton of oil equivalent
(about 7.4 barrels of oil)
GWh            =  gigawatt hours, equivalent
to 1 million kWh
kWh            =  kilowatt hours
MW            =  megawatts, equivalent to
1000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CONOCO         =  Continental Oil Company, Inc.
DPA            =  Department of Petroleum Affairs
DMH            =  Directorate of Mines and
Hydrocarbons
ENEERGE        =  Empresa Nacional de Energia
Elctrica de la Repuiblica de
Guinea Ecuatorial (National
Electrical Energy Company of the
Republic of Equatorial Guinea)
EEPGE          =  Empresa Estatal para la
Importaci6n y Commercializaci6n
de Productos Petroliferos
(State Company for the Importing
and Marketing of Petroleum Products)
Hispanoil      =  Spanish National Petroleum Company
GEPSA          =  Guinea Espanola de Petr6leos S.A.
(Guinean-Spanish Petroleum
Company Ltd.)
MIME           =  Ministry of Industry, Mines and
Energy
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ Plural: Bipkwele. The Epkwele is tied to the Spanish Peseta at
the ratio of two Bipkwele to one Peseta.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Amount:                  SDR 2.3 million (US$2.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
Project Description:    The project would provide technical assistance
to the Government for (a) the initial functioning,
within the Presidency, of the Department cf Petroleum
Affairs (DPA), responsible for administering the
country's petroleum sector, and (b) the strengthening
of the overall management of the energy sector.
The project would include:
(a) Exploration Monitoring: (i) about 46 man-
months of the services of experts to assist
DPA in evaluating the financial and
technical aspects of exploration contracts
with oil companies, monitoring companies'
activities, processing exploration-related
information, and periodically re-evaluating
the country's hydrocarbon potential; and
(ii) training for government officials in
the most important aspects of petroleum
exploration and economics, including three
internships, at governmental and private-
sector institutions abroad.
(b) Establishment of an Energy Sector Information
System: 8 man-months of consultants'
services to assist in the systematic collection
and processing of basic data on the energy
sector, including energy output, imports,
and demand, and preparation of an energy
consumption survey.
(c) Project Administration: 36 man-months of
the services of a full-time resident project
administrator who would provide assistance
with procurement and disbursement matters,
project accounting, and liaison with the
non-resident consultants, the various Ministries
involved, and the Association.
Project Benefits:        The proposed project would assist the Government
in attracting foreign capital and know-how, leading
to intensive hydrocarborn exploration, on equitable
terms. In addition, the project would help to
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
build tip a competent Government petroleum-affairs
agency by providing human and technical resources
needed to ensure the maximum exploration of the
country's petroleum potential. The establishment
of an energy sector information system would
provide the Government with the statistical basis
necessary to develop rational energy policies
and undertake subsequent planning.
Project
Risks:                   The present Government is often not well coordinated
and has very little experience with the Bank
Group. This situation could cause problems in
project implementation. This risk has been addressed
by the establishment of DPA within the Presidency,
where both decision-making power and the country's
limited expertise in the sector are concentrated.
A second risk is that difficulties may arise
in hiring qualified expatriate specialists full-
time. This risk is addressed in the project
design by recruiting exploration consultants
for part-time visits only. A third risk is that
difficulties may also arise in recruiting and
retaining competent local staff. This risk is
addressed by an agreement with the Government
on the up-grading of key posts and improving
the career-development prospects of administrative
staff in the petroleum sector. A fourth risk
is that the country's hydrocarbon prospects may
not be promising enough to attract companies
in sufficient numbers to undertake a meaningful
exploration program. In the light of past exploration
results and the number of companies that have
expressed interest, this risk is considered small.
Estimated Cost:          Total project cost net of identifiable taxes
is estimated at US$2.7 million equivalent, of
which US$2.3 million (85 percent) would be foreign
exchange.  A summary cost table is shown below:



- iii -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(us$ '000)
Foreign           Local          Total
Assistance to DPA
Consultants' Services                   760              110             870
Facilities and Equipment                560                0              560
Local Staff and Support Services           0             120              120
Training (incl. travel expenses)        120                0             120
Subtotal                         1,440             230            1,670
Energy Information System
Consultants' Services                    60               10               70
Facilities and Equipment                   5               0                5
Local Staff and Support Services           0               5                5
Subtotal                            65              15               80
Project Administration
Consultants' Services                   260               30             290
Facilities and Equipment                   5               0                5
Local Staff and Support Services           0              30               30
Subtotal                           265              60              325
Baseline Costs                        1,770              305           2,075
Physical Contingencies                  180               30             210
Price Contingencies                     350               60             410
Subtotal                        _530                90              620
GRAND TOTAL (Current Prices)          2,300              400           2,700
1/ Includes US$150,000 PPF advance.



- iv -
Fore ign     Local      Total    Percent
(Us$'00)
Financing Plan:        IDA               2,300         100     2,400        89
Government          -           300        300      11
Total             2,300        400      2,700      100
Estimated
Disbursement:          Fiscal Year         1983       1984       1985
Annual               600        900        900
Cumulative           600     1,500      2,400
Rate of Return:        N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:                None prepared.
Map:                   IBRD No. 10259R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FOR A PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the equivalent
of SDR 2.3 million (US$2.4 million) on standard IDA terms, to assist
in financing a technical-assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, entitled "The Economy of the Republic
of Equatorial Guinea--Recent Evolution and Prospects" (Report No. AW-37a)
was distributed to the Board on November 27, 1972. Since then,
the Bank Group has monitored the economy with the help of IMF reports
and several missions, the latest of which took place in September 1982.
The findings of these missions have been integrated into this report.
A Country Economic Memorandum was prepared in FY82.
Political Situation
3.        When Equatorial Guinea, a former overseas province of Spain,
became independent in October 1968, it was one of the most developed
countries in sub-Saharan Africa. During the subsequent 11 years of Macias
Nguema's regime, the economy was mismanaged, public administration ceased
to function and the population survived at a barely subsistence level.
In August 1979, a military junta deposed President Macias and established
a Supreme Military Council (Consejo Militar Supremo--CMS) headed by President
Lieutenant Colonel Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo.  The new Government
has taken steps to restore a measure of democratic process, and the country's
political isolation is being overcome gradually as Spain, international
organizations, and other countries have resumed their financial and technical
cooperation. An international donors' conference took place in April
1982, and a new constitution was approved in a national referendum in
August 1982.
Economic Potential and Development Constraints
4.        Equatorial Guinea covers 28,051 km  and consists of two parts:
Insular Guinea and Continental Guinea. Insular Guinea comprises five
islands: Bioko, on which is located the capital, Malabo, and four smaller
islands: Corisco, Big Elobey, Little Elobey, and Annobon. Continental
Guinea, named Rio Muni, is bordered on the north by Cameroon and on the
south and east by Gabon. At the beginning of the 1970s, Bioko, more
developed and urbanized than Continental Guinea, produced approximately
half of Equatorial Guinea's GDP and had a per-capita income twice as
high as that of Rio Muni. Approximately 80 percent of the total population,
estimated at 350,000 at the end of 1981, live in Rio Muni, and about



-2-
17 percent in urban centers. With an estimated per capita income of
US$175 in 1981, Equatorial Guinea has recently been classified as a least
developed country by the UN.
5.        The economy is based almost exclusively on agriculture (including
fishing) and forestry. Roughly 80 percent of the population derive their
living from agriculture, which accounts for 50 percent of GDP and about
97 percent of merchandise exports. Soils are of fertile volcanic origin.
The island of Bioko, where the country's main cash crop, cocoa, is grown,
benefits from well-distributed rainfall, whereas Rio Muni, covered with
large forests, has a more pronounced dry season. The Gulf of Guinea
has abundant fish resources, and Rio Muni offers good resources for river
fishing.
6.        Cocoa, coffee, and timber have traditionally been the country's
main sources of income. Before Independence, high-quality cocoa was
produced on some 53,000 ha, with Bioko accounting for 86 percent of the
cultivated area. The cocoa was grown on large, mostly foreign-owned
plantations (about half the total acreage), on medium-size estates, and
on small holdings held by indigenous farmers. Coffee was grown on 60,000
ha in Rio Muni, mainly by smallholders, and also on some 5,000 ha on
Bioko. Equatorial Guinea's forestry reserves, covering approximately
1,300,000 ha, of which about 500,000 ha have been partially exploited,
represent potentially the country's richest resource, apart from possible
future petroleum production. Estimated yields (25-30 m3/ha) are among
the highest in West Africa, and okoume, the most valuable species, accounts
for roughly 20 percent of production. Preliminary surveys have found
encouraging indications of titanium, iron ore, silica, manganese, uranium
and alluvial gold. Oil exploration has been going on since the mid-1960s,
with a long interruption under the former regime, and the Government
has more recently received assistance from Spain, the UN, and the Bank
in this sector (paras. 31-38).
7.        Though well endowed with natural resources, Equatorial Guinea
faces serious development constraints. A very weak public administration
and a shortage of the labor needed for operating the cocoa plantations
are the most serious obstacles to economic recovery. Shortly after Indepen-
dence, many expatriates left, and since then, the country has experienced
a severe shortage of administrators, technicians, and managers. During
the 1970s, a large part of the educated population was killed, approximately
one third of the population fled the country, and the formal education
system ceased to function for six or seven years. In addition, the country's
development has been hampered by the long distances between Insular and
Continental Guinea and by a lack of infrastructure.
Past Performance
8.        During its short period of independence, Equatorial Guinea's
GDP per capita fell sharply, from US$260 in 1970 to about US$175 in 1981.
This decrease was caused mainly by the drastic decline of the country's
agricultural production. Cocoa exports fell from some 40,000 tons in
1968 to less than 20,000 tons at the beginning of the 1970s, following



- 3 -
the departure of the foreign plantation owners, and to about 7,000 tons
a year after the exodus of some 30,000-40,000 Nigerian contract workers
in the mid-1970s. In an effort to restore cocoa production, the previous
Government introduced mandatory labor and brought large numbers of people
from Rio Muni to Bioko to work on the state-owned plantations. Inadequate
management by civil servants, insufficient and unmotivated labor supply,
and a reduced application of insecticides and fungicides led to a further
decline in yields and in the area cultivated, and exports fell to a record
low of 5,200 metric tons in 1980. Declines in the other agricultural
sectors were equally striking. Timber production declined from 360,000
metric tons in 1968 to an annual average of 6,000 tons in the late 1970s,
and coffee and palm-oil production virtually disappeared. Basic services
in health care, education, and in water and electrical supplies could
not be maintained, and large sections of the population, especially in
the cities, suffered from malnutrition. Foreign investment stopped and
the trading system, operated by state enterprises, broke down. When
the Macias Government started seizing harvests without payment, cash
crops were almost completely abandoned, and barter trade became the dominant
form of exchange.
9.        The new Government, though initially not able to decide on
a comprehensive development strategy, has taken several steps aimed at
revitalizing the economy. During 1980, the former plantation owners
were invited back, cocoa producer prices were raised from EK 85/kg to
EK 190/kg, and minimum agricultural wages were almost doubled, from EK
4,500 to EK 8,500. To date, some of the large estate owners have returned
and have started to rehabilitate, within the limits of the existing labor
supply, small areas of their plantations. But since many of the forcibly
recruited plantation laborers returned to Rio Muni after the coup d'etat
and show no inclination to go back to Bioko, even at wage offers considerably
above the fixed minimum level, labor remains scarce, and plantation owners
hesitate to undertake rehabilitation investments. Uncertainties as to
the question of land tenure have also slowed the rehabilitation of the
cocoa sector. Consequently, cocoa exports have remained at a low level
(some 8,000 tons in 1981). Timber production, though having recovered
from the low levels of the 1970s to some 70,000 tons in 1981, has remained
far below its potential, estimated at 300,000 tons a year in a recent
FAO study. Difficult road conditions, a lack of capital and weaknesses
in the Government's forestry administration explain, to a large extent,
the slow recovery of recorded wood production. Domestic food production
has been increasing steadily since 1980, as farmers have returned to
cultivating their fields, and fishermen have resumed artisanal fishing.
Some distribution problems notwithstanding, basic necessities have reappeared
at the markets and in the shops.
Budgetary developments
10.       The devastation of Equatorial Guinea's economy was accompanied
by the complete disarray of its public finances. Under the Macias regime,
public financial transactions were recorded only sporadically, and the
accounts of the Treasury, the Central Bank, and public enterprises were
not kept separate. The new Government reintroduced regular budgetary



- 4 -
and banking procedures with technical assistance from the IMF, and in
April 1980, the first formal budget since 1974 was enacted.  The economic
and financial stabilization program, agreed upon with the IMF in mid-
1980 for a stand-by arrangement, included several measures aimed at establish-
ing financial discipline. The two main public import and trade enterprises
were to be converted into autonomous government-owned or mixed enterprises,
independent of government funding, the numerous government accounts in
the Central Bank were to be consolidated into one single revenue and
expenditure account, the customs administration at Bata, Rio Muni's economic
urban center, was to be strengthened, and, most importantly, all expenditures
were to be strictly controlled with the help of a high-level Government
committee. Although some progress was initially made in these areas
the Government has not succeeded in fully implementing the policy measures
agreed upon.
11.       Because of uncertainties about the extent and speed of the
economic recovery, rather large differences between budgeted and actual
revenues and expenditures occurred in 1980. Actual revenues, amounting
to EK 2,706 million, were almost 40 percent higher than budgeted, mainly
because of unexpected revenues which had been amassed by the previous
regime and because of revenues from merchandise sales by the public enterprises,
the accounts of which had not yet been separated from the Treasury.
Tax revenues were considerably lower than budgeted, because there were
delays in implementing new tax measures, because several import tariffs
and tax rates were set lower than foreseen in the stabilization program,
and because tax collection was inefficient. Expenditures, on the other
hand, were almost twice as high as budgeted because of large extra-budgetary
payments. Two thirds of total expenditures, estimated at EK 4,150 million,
were made outside the budget, and included outlays for reconstructing
government buildings and a road, as well as subsidies to various public
enterprises. Most of the deficit of EK 1,444 million was financed by
the Central Bank.
Balance of Payments
12.       Except for a few years during the 1970s when exports slumped,
Equatorial Guinea's balance of payments had recorded surpluses. The
current account surpluses remained small, however, and foreign trade
became increasingly restricted, as foreign financing became difficult
to acquire. International transactions were handled by the Government
or by state enterprises, and only the most essential goods were imported.
When the new Government liberalized the system of import licenses in
1980, Equatorial Guinea's balance of payments deteriorated drastically.
Although the country's currency, the epkwele (EK) had been devalued by
50 percent in relation to the Spanish peseta in mid-1980, following the
wage increases in the agricultural sector (para. 9), exports fell to
a record low level in 1980. Imports of foodstuffs and of intermediate
and capital goods increased from an annual average of US$16 million during
the period 1977-79 to an annual average of US$43 million during the period
1980-81, and the annual current account surpluses of US$9 million turned
into deficits of US$24 million. Capital inflows, especially from Spain,
increased considerably, and the overall balance-of-payments deficits



- 5 -
amounted to US$14 million a year during 1980-81, of which more than 80
percent was financed by the IMF. At the end of 1981, gross foreign reserves
were estimated at approximately US$20 million, or about five months of
merchandise imports. Prospects for balance-of-payments surpluses in
the second half of the 1980s are good, since foreign exchange earnings
from timber as well as from oil resources are expected increasingly to
offset the pressures of rapidly increasing imports.
The External Debt
13.        At the end of 1980, Equatorial Guinea's total outstanding debt
(including undisbursed debt) was estimated at US$76 million, of which
US$41 million had been disbursed. Debt service payments were estimated
at US$2.3 million in 1981, and at about US$3.4 million a year over the
next three years. The country's debt service ratio, i.e. the country's
scheduled debt service obligations in relation to its export earnings
from goods and services, was estimated at 8 percent in 1981 and is expected
to amount to close to 10 percent in the following three years, if cocoa
and wood exports reach their projected levels.
Development Strategy and Investment Plan
14.        The absence of a functioning civil service at the time of the
sudden takeover of power in late 1979 made it difficult for the new Government
to pursue a comprehensive development strategy. During the first two
years of its rule, the Government concentrated on returning the country
to political stability and on reestablishing the legal and administrative
framework needed to attract and coordinate the foreign aid expected.
The Government has stated that it counts on the private sector to play
a significant role in the country's reconstruction process, but a shortage
of entrepreneurial skills and the authorities' hesitation to implement
rigorously a development approach based on private initiative has so
far left most economic activities in the hands of state enterprises or
under the Government's close control. Although a series of policy measures
(including the creation of the Technical Cabinet / Cabinete Tecnico /,
a high-level interministerial committee that coordinates and monitors
economic policy; the promulgation of a foreign investment law, and a
new customs and capital control law; and the conclusion of several cooperation
agreements with European and Latin American countries) have created a
favorable climate for the country's economic reconstruction, investments
have been made at only a moderate pace because of the very limited absorptive
capacity.
15.        With UNDP assistance, the Government presented a short-term
economic reconstruction and development plan at an international donors'
conference in Geneva in April 1982. The Reconstruction Program: 1982-84
forms a link between the emergency measures taken in 1980 and 1981
and the medium-term development plans to be prepared from 1985 onwards.
The Program aims at a revitalization of domestic food production, at
stimulating the production of export crops, and at providing a basic
infrastructure. Planned investments during 1982-84 amount to US$141
million (in constant 1981 US dollars), some 80 percent of which the Government



- 6 -
considers as priority projects. About 20 percent of the total planned
investment of the Reconstruction Program has been earmarked for projects
in 1982, about 30 percent for 1983, and close to half of the total amount
for 1984. The investment program seems overly optimistic with regard
to its volume, on grounds both of available financing and of absorptive
capacity. It is not likely that more than one third of the overall program
could be implemented over the next three years. The program allocates
a high share of the total amount to infrastructure and housing (51 percent)
at the expense of agriculture (about 23 percent) and industry, mining
and energy (9 percent), with the remaining 17 percent being reserved
for education, health and other social and administrative support projects.
16.       In the agricultural sector, the Government has given first
priority to the rehabilitation of the cocoa sector. Technical and financial
assistance to smallholders, made available since the beginning of 1982
by the UN Capital Development Fund and several donor countries, and a
continuation of the cocoa rehabilitation project (5,000 ha) financed
by the African Development Bank are expected to lead to an increase in
cocoa production from 8,000 tons in 1981 to 16,000 tons a year by the
end of the Reconstruction Program in 1984. In order to expand cocoa
production further, the Government has begun, with the Bank's assistance,
to study in detail all aspects, including the labor question, of a possible
large-scale cocoa/coffee rehabilitation project. The scope and nature
of such a project, currently being prepared by a team of consultants
financed with an IDA PPF advance, will depend crucially on the availability
of foreign labor, since the scope for mechanizing cocoa production is
very limited. In the forestry sector, the Government has received technical
assistance from FAO, and a new forestry law is expected to stimulate
investments and improve the operating climate for foreign companies in
that sector. Timber production could increase from some 70,000 tons
in 1981 to about 140,000 tons a year by 1984, and to 400,000 tons a year
in the long term, provided that (a) the necessary infrastructure be put
into place, and (b) the national forestry administration be considerably
strengthened. About 4 percent of the total investment program for 1982-84
has been reserved for the energy sector, where projects aim at providing
Equatorial Guinea's population centers with electricity and at defining
an overall energy policy, taking into account the country's hydroelectric
resources. The Government has given high priority to the development
of the country's oil resources, the foreign exchange earnings from which
are expected to speed up the country's economic reconstruction.
Prospects
17.       After a decade of economic decline, the prospects for a recovery
of Equatorial Guinea's economy in the medium term are good. Production
of the country's export commodities can be expected to increase steadily,
providing a base for developing domestic food production and marketing.
At a later stage, a small-scale manufacturing industry could be reestablished
around cocoa, coffee, and timber production. In addition, oil and other
mineral resources, if they materialize, will substantially raise the
country's medium-term development potential. Equatorial Guinea's very
limited capacity for identifying, planning, and implementing investment



- 7 -
projects is likely to continue to be the country's most serious development
constraint for some time. The substantial technical assistance provided
by the international community is, however, expected to mitigate this
obstacle gradually in the course of the next few years.
18.       In view of the country's poverty and its public-finance difficulties,
Equatorial Guinea is not creditworthy for conventional borrowing, and
donors should extend their assistance on highly concessional terms.
During the economy's recovery phase in the early 1980s, public savings
net of debt service are likely to be negative. The Government's contribution
to public investments will, therefore, remain modest at best for several
years. If the country's administrative capacity continues to improve,
foreign donors should be prepared to assist new development projects,
financing a high proportion of project costs, including some local cost
financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EQUATORIAL GUINEA
19.       The Bank Group has had only one project in Equatorial Guinea,
a Highways Project (Credit 362-EG) for which an IDA Credit for US$2.0
million equivalent was approved in March 1973. Only minimal disbursements
were made under the project, and the Credit was cancelled in April 1976
at the Government's request. Economic mismanagement, chaotic public
administration, and lack of even elementary planning and investment program-
ming, which characterized the previous regime, made it impossible for
the Bank Group to undertake a meaningful dialogue with the Government,
much less to finance projects, although periodic efforts were made to
ascertain whether the situation had changed sufficiently to recommence
a lending program.
20.       Under the new Government, the Bank Group has cautiously resumed
activities in the country, starting with the execution of a UNDP-financed
technical assistance project in the petroleum sector (para. 31, 34).
A cocoa/coffee rehabilitation project was identified in mid-1981, and
a request for an advance from the Project Preparation Facility for the
preparation of the project was approved in November 1981. A preparation
mission visited the country in September/October 1982; their report is
expected by mid-December 1982. A highways project mission visited the
country in March 1981 and tentatively identified a new project in that
sector, but administrative problems preclude advancing with such a project
at the present time. A Bank forestry specialist visited the country
in February 1982, and a forestry sector memorandum is under preparation
which may suggest possible Bank Group assistance to that sector. Finally,
the Bank Group took an active role in assisting the Government and UNDP
in the preparation of an international donors' conference (para. 15),
which took place in April 1982.



-8-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Resource Base, Output, and Demand
21.       Equatorial Guinea's energy resource base is reasonably diversified
but little developed. Dense forests covering 1.0 million ha provide
the most important energy source. The hydro potential on Bioko Island
is estimated at 33 MW, of which currently only 0.5 MW are used, but Rio
Muni's hydro potential, completely unutilized at present, may be even
larger than that on Bioko. There is at present no production of hydrocarbons,
but past offshore drilling has encountered encouraging oil shows. The
solar energy potential is also significant but is not being used.
22.       Over the last decade, domestic energy output and use have been
severely depressed by economic stagnation. Overall energy consumption
in 1980 is estimated to have been 65,000 toe, or 0.20 toe per capita.
Petroleum product consumption accounts for less than 60 kg per capita,
compared to an average consumption of 80-100 kg per capita in sub-Saharan
African countries. The major source of energy consumed is firewood,
which meets nearly 80 percent of overall energy needs and virtually 100
percent of the energy needs of the rural sector, including agroindustries
(mainly cocoa drying). Very little charcoal is used. Imports of petroleum
products cover all commercial energy requirements. The public electricity
system, operated by the Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica de la Republica
de Guinea Ecuatorial (ENEERGE), depends largely on small diesel generators
and covers only three cities (Malabo and Luba on Bioko, Bata in Rio Muni).
The system is poorly maintained, and supplies are frequently interrupted.
Only 4.3 MW of the 8.8 MW of total installed capacity are in operating
condition, and transmission losses are close to 35 percent of generation.
Because of the unreliability of the public system, a large number of
customers have increasingly relied on private generators. Electricity
consumption in 1980 probably did not exceed 45 kWh per capita, a figure
which is among the lowest in sub-Saharan Africa.
Sector Institutions, Policies, and Issues
23.       The Presidency holds final responsibility for policy decisions
affecting the energy sector. It has assumed direct control, in petroleum
matters, over the Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DMH) which adminis-
tratively is located in the Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy (MIME).
The Presidency also supervises the Cabinete Tecnico, which is responsible,
among other things, for the evaluation of foreign petroleum companies'
bids for hydrocarbon exploration. MIME, through its Directorate of Industry,
manages the electricity utility ENEERGE, although there are plans to
transform ENEERGE into an autonomous public enterprise. The state petroleum
importing and marketing company, EEPGE, which until recently was directly
controlled by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, has already been
transformed into an autonomous public enterprise. The Ministries of
Development and of Finance and Commerce also play a role in pricing and
investment decisions affecting the energy sector. The newly created
Department of Petroleum Affairs (DPA) within the Presidency ties together
the hitherto dispersed--and sometimes conflicting--Ministerial responsibilities
for petroleum policy (para 34).



-9-
Investment Priorities
24.       For lack of trained personnel and of the most basic data on
energy, the Government has not yet devised a coherent development plan
for the energy sector. In view of the rapidly growing demand for commercial
energy resulting from resumed economic activity, the Government is giving
priority to restoring a reliable supply of electricity.  The Malabo distribu-
tion system is being improved and the Musola hydropower plant (in central
Bioko) repaired, with financing of US$5 million from the European Development
Fund and UNDP.  For future expansion, the Government is now giving priority
to hydropower development, based on a survey of the country's hydro potential
being carried out by Electricite de France. A 3.2 MW hydro scheme under
construction in Rio Muni should be completed in 1983. The Government's
policy regarding petroleum is to encourage exploration as fast as possible
in the hope of eventually meeting domestic energy requirements and exploiting
a new source of export earnings. Other than a preliminary review of
the forestry potential by FAO (para. 9), little attention has yet been
devoted to renewable sources of energy. In particular, the possibility
of using the country's forestry reserves more effectively for energy
purposes has not yet been carefully considered. With the expected rise
in commercial energy consumption, the Government will be, within a few
years, faced with increasingly complex issues in the sector, such as
ensuring adequate supplies, determining an appropriate mix of supplies,
and ensuring efficient energy use. The proposed project would assist
the Government in establishing a reliable energy data system that would
provide key inputs for making decisions concerning the energy sector
(para. 43).
Energy Pricing
25.       Energy pricing is discussed in detail in Annex V to this report.
The prices of petroleum products are set by the Presidency on the basis
of proposals from EEPGE (para. 23). At present, they are in line with
price levels prevailing in other African countries. There is some subsidiza-
tion of kerosene, which, however, is justified by social objectives and
is more than compensated for by the surplus obtained from the sale of
other products. Electricity tariffs have been insufficient to cover
costs, and, in practice, most residential users pay a flat fee irrespective
of their actual consumption. The Association has pointed out this issue
to the Government but is not insisting on corrective action as a condition
of proceeding with the proposed project. Since the proposed project
focuses mainly on petroleum exploration, it would not be an appropriate
vehicle for a discussion of electricity pricing. Once more relevant
data are available, a detailed energy pricing analysis can be undertaken,
and energy pricing issues can be addressed in the Association's dialogue
with the Government.
The Petroleum Sub-sector
26.       All petroleum products consumed are imported.  As a result
of the re-opening of the country following the coup d'etat in late 1979,
imports of automobiles and fuels increased dramatically, with the result



- 10 -
that petroleum consumption amounted in 1980 to about 18,400 tons, which
represented an increase of nearly 70 percent over the preceding year's
level of consumption. Gas oil accounts for the largest share of consumption
(42% in 1980) because of its use in power generation and transport.
Kerosene (22% of consumption) is essentially used for lighting and cooking.
The share of gasoline in overall consumption is relatively small (21%),
because of low car density, whereas aviation fuels account for 15% of
overall consumption, mostly in the form of bunker sales to foreign airlines.
There is no consumption of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) in the country.
As regards consumption by sector, transport accounts for 35 percent;
power generation and residential-commercial consumption, about 30 percent
each; and industrial consumption, including agroindustries, 5 percent.
The island of Bioko accounts for about 60 percent of total consumption.
27.        Imported petroleum products have in the past originated almost
entirely in the USSR. Recently, EEPGE has also bought products from
Spain, Cameroon, and Gabon, on a spot basis. EEPGE contracts for petroleum
products, following approval of the required foreign exchange allocations
by the Presidency. EEPGE is also responsible for storing, transporting,
and distributing products. Storage capacity amounts to 15,500 tons in
Bioko and 10,300 tons in Rio Muni, equivalent to 18 months of consumption,
but actual inventories are much lower.
28.        As a result of economic stagnation and of the scarcity of foreign
exchange, petroleum imports were severely restricted during the 1970s.
Even in 1980, the total value of petroleum imports amounted to only US$5
million. The figure is expected to increase, however, to at least US$8
million in 1981, equivalent to about 30 percent of that year's foreign
exchange earnings. Because of small and irregular shipments, CIF import
prices are 30-35 percent above international refinery prices. With the
expected economic recovery, petroleum imports are likely to increase
significantly. Assuming a growth of domestic consumption of petroleum
products averaging 5 percent p.a. throughout the 1980s, imports may amount
to US$14.5 million in 1985 and US$28 million in 1990 (current prices).
Expenditures of that magnitude would preempt a growing share of export
earnings, unless indigenous crude production has started by then and
exports of crude are compensating for petroleum-product imports.
Geological Setting
2
29.        Equatorial Guinea's offshore area, totaling about 13,450 km
includes parts of three distinct sedimentary basins. One of these, lying
north of Bioko Island, is an extension of the Niger Delta Basin, which
contains a large number of fields in Nigeria and Cameroon producing from
tertiary and cretaceous sandstone reservoirs on structures associated
with gravity faults (produced by sedimentary loading of underlying plastic
shales). The offshore area south of Bioko Island is part of the seaward
extension of the Douala Basin of Cameroon. It is similar in most respects
to the Niger Delta Basin, and several gas fields have been discovered
both on-and offshore. The remaining basins, lying offshore from Rio
Muni, are part of the northern extension of the Gabon Basin, which is
productive to the south in Gabon, principally from tertiary and cretaceous



- 11 -
sandstone reservoirs associated with structures induced by flowage of
an underlying salt formation into pillows, domes, and ridges. Some 30
sizeable salt structures have been identified offshore from Rio Muni
after seismic surveys in an area north of Corisco Island. Although not
much geological work has been conducted onshore on Rio Muni, a shallow
basement indicates little petroleum potential in this area.
Government Strategy for Petroleum Exploration
30.        In the late 1960s and early 1970s, a first round of exploration
on Equatorial Guinea's continental shelf created substantial interest
among oil companies. Four groups of companies spent about US$20 million
to acquire 8,000 km of seismic lines and 6,000 km of airmag lines and
to drill seven wells, three of which had oil shows. Exploration was
interrupted in the mid-1970s because of a controversy with Gabon concerning
the delimitation of offshore waters (para. 35) and a deteriorating investment
climate. Shortly after the new Government took power in August 1979
and indicated its intention to encourage foreign investment, foreign
oil companies approached the Government requesting exploration permits
offshore. An agreement with Hispanoil materialized as part of the technical
assistance provided by Spain to Equatorial Guinea. A mixed company,
Guinea-Espanola de Petroleos, S.A. (GEPSA), was created, owned in equal
shares by the Government of Equatorial Guinea and Hispanoil.  With Hispanoil
financing, GEPSA undertook a seismic survey of the offshore areas and
subsequently requested a contract covering the entire area offshore north
of Bioko.  The Govern ent has decided to grant four blocks (covering
approximately 1800 km ) to GEPSA, and negotiations have been completed
within the framework of the newly enacted law (para. 33).
31.       The Government also sought UNDP and World Bank assistance to
promote petroleum exploration. Two UNDP grants (totaling US$0.6 million)
for which the Bank was the executing agency, were extended in June 1980
and July 1981, respectively, to finance technical assistance. The UNDP
grants are expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1983.
32.       The implementation of the UNDP project has proceeded satisfactorily.
As part of the project, legal consultants helped in preparing the legal
and contractual framework for hydrocarbon exploration and production;
the results of their assistance were a national Hydrocarbon Law, promulgated
on June 23, 1981, and an annexed production-sharing model contract, finalized
in January 1982. Exploration consultants assisted in the compilation,
review, and reinterpretation of existing geological and geophysical data
on Equatorial Guinea's basins. The exploration consultants also assisted
in promoting the country's hydrocarbon potential to the petroleum industry
by preparing a bid invitation document, which was finalized in February
1982 for sale to interested oil companies to enable them to prepare bids
for exploration acreage. The Government has also retained an experienced
bid evaluation specialist (for intermittent periods totalling three man-
months, starting in October 1981) whose services (including reviewing
the technical and financial aspects of draft contracts with oil companies)
would be extended and financed under the proposed project.



- 12 -
33.       The Hydrocarbon Law of June 23, 1981, and its annex, the model
production-sharing contract, provide for exclusive exploration rights
for an initial five-year term; these rights can be renewed twice, for
one year each, for a maximum period of seven years. The law and the
model contract provide that 40 percent of the permit surface must be
relinquished at the end of the third year and that an additional 20 percent
of the original permit surface must be relinquished at the end of the
fifth year.  The holders of contracts are to undertake exploration activities
in accordance with an agreed work program. If petroleum reserves are
discovered, production permits may be granted for an initial term of
20 years after the start of production. The model production-sharing
contract sets royalties at 10 percent each for oil and gas, and income
tax at 45 percent. Signature bonuses, work commitments, and the Government's
share in production, however, are to be established for each exploration
block through a process of bidding by the oil companies for exploration/produc-
tion rights in that block. These terms provide a favorable investment
framework while protecting the country's interests. The text of the
Hydrocarbon Law and model contract has been distributed to about 50 oil
companies that have expressed interest in participating in the bidding.
Following the release of seismic data by Hispanoil in February 1982,
the distribution of bidding documents and the sale of geological and
geophysical data packages began and is still under way. In August 1982,
the Government issued a decree authorizing international competitive
bidding for exploration rights in the offshore areas. The date of bid
submittal and opening will be announced by the Government during the
next few weeks with at least 45 days advance notice. It is expected
that contract negotiations will proceed with the oil companies who are
successful bidders during the first quarter of 1983.
34.       At the same time as it executed the UNDP-financed project,
the Association reviewed with the Government the institutional arrangements
for monitoring hydrocarbon exploration, which until recently was the
responsibility of MIME's Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DMH)
(para. 23). The Directorate was ill-equipped for this task: in addition
to its director, a mining engineer, it had only two professional staff
with a background in petroleum and had no decision-making power. In
view of the substantial interest of foreign oil companies and the need
to deal with them effectively at a high and interministerial level, and
in order to establish an effective administration of hydrocarbon exploration,
the Government created (by Decree-Law No. 2/1982 of April 22, 1982) a
Department of Petroleum Affairs (DPA) within the Presidency and transferred
DMH to the Presidency, where it has become part of DPA.  DPA's chief
reports to the Technical Cabinet, a high-level advisory body that includes
representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Commerce, Planning,
MIME, and the Presidency. The Technical Cabinet meets regularly and
receives all relevant information, provides advice to DPA's head, and
coordinates the policies of the Ministries concerned. This arrangement
centralizes technical capacity and decision-making power in the Presidency
but allows other Ministries involved the possibility of voicing their
concerns. DPA's chief, Mr. Marcelino Owono Nguema Onguene, was appointed
by Decree-Law No. 19/1982 of May 18, 1982.



- 13 -
The Border Question
35.       Before Independence, the offshore borders between Equatorial
Guinea's islands and three of the country's neighbors--Nigeria, Cameroon,
and Gabon--were not clearly defined, as this was considered unimportant.
Now that petroleum may be found offshore, the borders can become critically
important. The Association is aware that there are frequently ambiguities
and controversies over the exact borders in offshore areas, and that
such questions have arisen between Equatorial Guinea and some of its
neighbors. The Association takes no position in these controversies,
and is not financing any physical investments in the area concerned and
the Association has recommended to the Government that it formally disclose
the existence of conflicting claims to the oil companies. The technical
assistance to be provided under the proposed project would not have the
function of advising on the legal or other aspects of the conflicting
territorial claims.
The Conoco Question
36.       Conoco (Continental Oil Company, Inc.) had been awarded two
blocks of acreage by Spain when Equatorial Guinea was still a Spanish
colony. One of the blocks is in the area claimed by Gabon. When Gabon
in 1970 issued an exploration permit to other oil companies covering
much of the same area, Conoco ceased the mandatory exploration activities
in that block. The Government claims that Conoco did not fulfill its
contractual obligations, that its concessions therefore terminated, and
that Conoco therefore no longer has any claim on either of the two blocks.
Conoco claims that force majeure prevented it from carrying out exploration
activities in the contested border area, and that it could not work in
the other block because normal business operations became impossible
under the Macias regime in Equatorial Guinea. The Association has pointed
out to the Government of Equatorial Guinea that Conoco's claim to the
two blocks, if left unresolved, could lead to less attractive bids on
the two blocks from other companies. Conoco and the Government are at
present negotiating in an attempt to resolve the matter amicably. The
Association takes no position as to the substance of this controversy.
In this case, as well as in the border issue, the Association is not
financing any physical investments in the affected areas, and the consultants
to be financed under the proposed project would not have the function
of advising on the legal or other aspects of Conoco's claims.
37.       The planned assistance to Equatorial Guinea under the proposed
project therefore properly takes into account the position taken by the
Borrower as well as the interests of the other member countries of the
Association concerned.
The Association's Role
38.       Equatorial Guinea is entering a decisive phase in the development
of its hydrocarbon potential. As executing agency of the UNDP-financed
project, and in the course of preparing the proposed project, the Bank
has been instrumental in helping the Government to devise and implement



- 14 -
a strategy aimed at attracting foreign companies to undertake hydrocarbon
exploration on equitable terms. The success of the strategy will depend
to a large extent on the administrative capacity of the Government to
manage the sector, including the bid evaluation. UNDP funds will run
out by mid-1983 (para. 31). The Association's role under the proposed
project would be to finance the assistance required to complete the bidding
process, furnish technical and financial advice during negotiations with
the oil companies, and monitor the activities of the companies once their
exploration/production activities have started. A more important long-
term role for the Association is to assist in developing the institutional
basis through which the Government will eventually be able, largely on
its own, to (i) conduct further contract negotiations, (ii) monitor oil
companies' activities on a systematic basis, and (iii) undertake planning
for the energy sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
39.        The proposed project was identified in May 1981 and was appraised
in November 1981. Project preparation was undertaken in the course of
supervising the UNDP-financed technical assistance project in the petroleum
sector and was partly financed through a PPF advance of US$150,000 extended
in April 1982, of which US$4,500 had been disbursed by July 1982. Credit
negotiations were held in Malabo in September 1982. The country delegation
was headed by Mr. Guillermo Nguena Ela, Technical Secretary. A credit
and project summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a supple-
mentary project data sheet is given in Annex III. No staff Appraisal
Report has been prepared.
Project Objectives
40.        Under the proposed project, the technical assistance provided
to Equatorial Guinea under the UNDP-financed, Bank-executed project for
promoting exploration activities would be continued and expanded. The
proposed project would provide the Government with the institutional
structure and technical capability to monitor the activities of the petroleum
companies, and it would strengthen the overall administration of the
energy sector. Its immediate objectives would be to assist Equatorial
Guinea in:
(a)  strengthening the Department of Petroleum Affairs (DPA)
within the Presidency (paras. 23 and 34) enabling it
to evaluate and interpret exploration data, negotiate
with oil companies, and monitor operating companies' activities;
and
(b) preparing an energy data base, a prerequisite for planning
and policy-making in the energy sector.



- 15 -
Project Description
41.       The project would consist of the following components, which
are further described below: (a) exploration monitoring; (b) the establish-
ment of an energy-sector information system; (c) project administration;
and (d) training.
42.       Exploration Monitoring.  Consultants would continue and expand
the activities started under the UNDP-financed project. They would assist
DPA in evaluating the financial and technical aspects of the exploration
contracts and in monitoring the oil companies' exploration-related information
submitted by operating companies. The component would consist of the
services (about 46 man-months) of (i) exploration consultants, including
an explorationist as project leader, and (ii) geophysicists and petroleum
engineers, as required. The exploration consultants would also re-evaluate
annually during 1983-85 the country's hydrocarbon potential, as additional
geological data are obtained. The equipment (special copying machines
for logs and seismic profiles, storage for geological samples, a core
cutter and a core plugging machine) and facilities (including office
units and furniture) necessary for DPA's initial operations would be
provided under the project, as would four vehicles.
43.       The Establishment of an Energy-Sector Information System.
Consultants would help establish a data base on energy output, imports,
and demand. They would also help prepare an energy consumption survey,
which would be undertaken in coordination with the UNDP-financed and
-sponsored census scheduled for early 1983. The preparation and undertaking
of this survey would be carried out jointly with the UN-financed experts
in charge of the census. The completion of this task would provide reliable
statistical information, hitherto lacking, on the energy sector, as well
as recommendations on (i) the need for further technical assistance in
organizing energy-related statistical services, and (ii) the methodological
and technical aspects of energy data collection. Eight man-months of
consultants' services would be provided for these tasks. Equipment to
file, reproduce, and tabulate data for the new information system would
also be provided. Assurances have been obtained that the Government
would consult with the Association on the conclusions and recommendations
of the consultants, particularly before implementing any recommendation
with respect to the need for further technical assistance (Section 3.02(c),
draft Development Credit Agreement). An assurance has also been obtained
that by June 30, 1984, at the latest, the Government would inform the
Association of the concrete measures for establishing a permanent energy
information system (Section 3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Project Administration.  The Government's lack of qualified
staff, inexperience with Bank Group procedures, and generally weak administra-
tive procedures would make it necessary to provide a resident project
administrator for a total period of about 36 man-months. A suitable
candidate was identified and started work in Equatorial Guinea with financing
from an advance from the Project Preparation Facility. He will be responsible
for assisting with project administration, particularly with (a) procurement,
(b) the keeping of project accounts, (c) the preparation of withdrawal



- 16 -
applications, and (d) liaison with the non-resident consultants, the
various Ministries involved, and the Association.
45.        Training.  The terms of reference for all consultants (exploration
consultants, energy-information-system consultants, and the administrator)
would include the on-the-job training of local counterpart staff, primarily
staff with an educational background in petroleum affairs and/or having
participated in foreign training financed under the UNDP project. In
addition, three internships would be provided to train Government officials
in the most important aspects of petroleum exploration and economics
(such as the principles of petroleum geology, exploration tec-Jiques
and economics, issues of government-company contracts, and petroleum-
project costs and benefits) at governmental and private sector institutions
abroad.
Project Implementation
46.        The project would be implemented by DPA over a period of about
three years. DPA would be responsible for monitoring exploration in
the hydrocarbon sector as well as for establishing the energy data base.
Consultants to be financed under the project are expected to be employed
by June 1983 at the latest. The initial consultants to be hired under
the proposed project should be in place at the time of completion of
the UNDP-financed project, in order to provide continuity between the
two projects. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that
measures will be taken to upgrade key posts and to improve the career
develoment prospects of DPA's professional staff (Section 3.05, draft
Development Credit Agreement), and that the Government will report to
the Association on the staffing of DPA on an annual basis, starting in
1983 (Section 3.04(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates
47.        The total project cost, net of identifiable taxes, is estimated
at US$2.7 million, of which US$2.3 million (85 percent) in foreign exchange.
Detailed cost estimates are given in the project summary. Given hardship
conditions in Equatorial Guinea, and based on the experience of the UNDP-
financed project, the cost of consultants' services per man-month has
been estimated at US$20,000 for exploration consultants, US$8,000 for
data-collection specialists, and US$8,300 for the administrator, including
travel, subsistence, and overhead. These amounts are in line with fees
prevailing locally for expatriates with qualifications comparable to
those required for the project. These costs may be reduced by employing,
whenever possible, qualified individual consultants instead of contracting
firms for the same services. Physical contingencies of 10 percent and
price contingencies of 8 percent in 1982 and 7.5 percent each in 1983
and 1984 have been applied and total US$0.62 million, or 30 percent of
the baseline cost.



- 17 -
Financing Plan
48.       The proposed credit of US$2.4 million would cover 89 percent
of total project costs (all foreign costs and 25 percent of local costs).
The Government would meet the remaining US$300,000, representing mainly
local staff salaries and supporting costs. The high share of the Association's
financing proposed for this project is justified because of the Government's
critical budgetary position (paras. 11 and 12).
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       Consultants would be selected in accordance with the Association's
guidelines on the use of consultants (dated August 1981). Equipment
purchases would total about US$700,000, comprising (a) vehicles (US$90,000)
in one contract, (b) varying types of specialized laboratory and office
equipment (US$440,000) in about eight separate contracts of about US$55,000
each, and (c) five prefabricated office units or five office units to
be built (US$170,000) in one contract. Locally advertised competitive
bidding was considered, given the small size of individual contracts,
but this would not draw a response because equipment supplier representatives
are lacking in Equatorial Guinea. Thus, procurement would be undertaken
through prudent international shopping by obtaining at least three quotations
from qualified suppliers in at least two countries. Most of the contracts
are likely to be won by suppliers established in neighboring countries.
The proposed Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
exchange costs and 90 percent of local costs for vehicles, equipment,
supplies and office units (including installation), and against 100 percent
of total expenditures for consultant and expert services, and training,
as well as 100 percent of foreign expenditures for travel of DPA staff.
Disbursements would be fully documented. The Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed within three and a half years after effectiveness.
Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
50.       Assurances have been obtained that DPA would keep separate
project accounts that would be audited by auditors acceptable to the
Association (Section 4.01, draft Development Credit Agreement). Funds
to finance these audits have been included in the Credit. DPA would
submit quarterly and annual reports on project implementation in a format
acceptable to the Association (Section 3.04(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). DPA would also submit a project completion report not later
than six months after the Closing Date (Section 3.04(d), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
51.       Together with the UNDP-financed project, the proposed project
is expected to assist the Government in attracting foreign capital and
know-how for intensive hydrocarbon exploration that would not otherwise
be available to the country. Any discovery of hydrocarbons should have
a significant positive impact on the country's economy. The short-term
risk associated with this benefit is that the blocks offered to the companies



- 18 -
may not be promising enough to attract companies in sufficient numbers
to undertake a meaningful exploration program. Given the number of companies
which have shown interest, this risk appears small. The longer-term
risk is that exploration will not lead to discoveries of exploitable
reserves. This risk is acceptable because of the large benefits that
would accrue if an exploitable find were made.
52.       The institutional assistance provided under the project to
DPA would enable this entity, over time, to ensure the optimum exploration
and development of the country's petroleum resources. The energy information
system would provide the Government with a basis for developing rational
policies and undertaking coherent planning for the energy sector overall.
The project would also be instrumental in developing the local expertise
needed to conduct hydrocarbon exploration and other energy-related policies
competently. The principal risk associated with the institutional assistance
component of the project is that delays may occur in hiring qualified
expatriate specialists, and difficulties may be experienced in recruiting
and retaining competent local staff. These risks are addressed in the
project design by proposing that expatriate exploration consultants be
recruited for part-time visits rather than residing in the country, and
by obtaining assurances from the Government that measures will be taken
to foster career development and minimize the turnover of DPA's professional
staff.
53.       There is one final risk associated with the project.  The present
Government is not yet three years old. Coordination among the various
parts of the Government is weak, with the result that decisions are often
delayed or conflicting. In addition, this project would be the first
Bank Group-financed project in the country since 1973, and the present
Government has very little experience with the Bank Group. This situation
could cause problems in project implementation. This risk is addressed
by establishing DPA within the Presidency, where both decision-making
power and the country's limited expertise in the sector are concentrated.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Equatorial Guinea and the Association, as well as the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III to this report.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
November 8, 1982



ANNEX I
- 20-                                                  Page I of 5
Page I
TABLE 3A
EQUATORIAL GINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EQUATORIAL GUINEA                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              28.1
AGRICULTURAL        3.3                                    MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPItA (US$)                        ..           ..    175  1/                  250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        120.6         66.9      103.1                    66.5                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   244.0           274.0      311.0 1/
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..              ..           -                   17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           0.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             1.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           8.7          9.8       10.9                   27.7                      54.7
PER SQ. 1RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       76.0         82.8       91.3                   86.7                     129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            38.9         40.4       41.8                   44.8                      46.0
15-64 YRS.                            57.1         55.5       55.0                   52.3                      51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      4.0          4.1        3.3                    2.9                       2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.5          1.2        1.3                    2.7                       2.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                    6.2                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        43.0         42.0       42.3                   47.3                      47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        26.9         22.2       18.6                    19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION HATE                 2.8          2.8        2.8                     3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            100.0        :00.0         ..                   88.7                      90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        ..           ..         ..                   90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               ..           ..         .,                   53.1                      54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..           ..         ..                   18.4                     17.0
CHILI (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            43.7         37.5       30.6                   26.7                      23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCf AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2            42.2       47.1                   45.6                      51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             187.8        166.6      142.9                  129.9                     118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   23.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                   54.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   25.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                   63.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                   20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN             5809.5      11080.0   58000.0/c               32097.3                   14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         614.4            ..     843. c7               3264.6                    2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               193.8           . .      83.0/d               1225.0                   1036.4
UJREAN                               53.7           ..       52.37T                249.5                    43C.8
RURAL                              9048.2           ..      193.87d               1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
ITAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
1/GNP per capita and population figures have been estimated by recent Bank missions at
$175 and 350,000, respectively, in 1981. These data will appear in the 1982 World Bank Atlas.



- 21 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Page 2
TABLE 3A
EQUATORIAL GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EQUATORIAL GUINEA             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OP SANARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 85.0        73.0       B1.0lc               63.2                    83.3
MALE                103.0        82.0       89.078               72.7                    96.1
FEMALE               67.0        63.0       72.0/c               50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0        16.0       11.O/c               10.2                    15.3
MALE                  3.0        24.0       19.07o               13.2                    19.4
FEtALE                1.0         8.0        4.07o                6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY) 37.8          10.0       8.2/c                7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           75.6        57.0/e      ..                  47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                         36.4        34.4       27.4/c               26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..          .,         ..                 34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..         ..                  3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        29.2      266.7                 34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        3.3                  1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  3.3           ..        ..                  2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        1.7/d                1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       73.6        79.8       86.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   3.8         4.2        4.7                 34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             84.0        80.0       76.0                 78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.0         7.0       8.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2        29.1       27.9                 41.4                    37.0
MALE                                59.6         57.1      54.3                 53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               2.3          2.4       2.6                 29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4          1.5       1.6                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..                134.3                   507.0
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..                            96.4                   523.9
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..                 39.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  69.0
toc available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1973.
Nay, 1982



- 22 -                                                                          ANNEX I
OF socIL  [NIt AllIedPage    3   of   5
DEF IN ITIONS OF SOCI7AL. I NDI CATOR                                                               P    ge     3        f     
Notes:  Althotgh rho data are drawa cren  sources generally Judged the most ausboeltatlos and eeliable, it  ltoold also be noted that they may Dto  be i               -
nationally  -omparsble hetot Ie of the lIak of standardized deftniroo   and toatapts u;ed bydifferentcoutries i. toleroiof the data   The dare are, none-
theless . useful to drsrir orders of mAnIode, iditare  trends, and chratteriae cartair major dife erncs  et e                         Le.
Theoratnr nt groupsasare (11(ei same Occcr     n oarlte shJoc ctocryandf(Z  a 2              unatoy btoupltl:ooeaI:at hithl-r aerhage Income  t.han         ountry group
of tha sebjeor coontry  fenrIt for   "HLgh lncome   Oil ,tpoe.ers' group abere Fhiddle Income North Africa ond hiddla East  is chodsalheoo b- e of stronger
soco-colrorn  affinities).  Inther thef                         e arge  art popolatton  eighted asishmesit mians for eatth indicator and ohown only ehen
majority of the conateins In a froI   p has data for that Indicator.  IItoe Che I    overage of roonretra snang the i  icatoes depeods ot the eavilabiiliy of data
atd is sot unifora. csocian ness he etaroised In ralting aoerages of one indicator to anather. These averages are oniy usefal In co=pariog she nalue of
one indi-asonIat I time   ogtrheonty  and-radlen-ce  gnoupt.
ARiA (the.sa.d sq.km.. )                                                                         Porlation Fee Hos,ital led - total. urban, and rural - Fopolatton  ftotal
Tl - Total srface area oomPris lg an d area end lnland waters; 1979 data.                        arias, end rural) divided hy  their re_protinens:ber af hoepiral bhds
gr Icoltorel - fatit l e of agricolnaral area used temporarily or p-rmasenfly                    a-ailable it poblic  od prtiate goneral and  ypeitalie-d hospital end Fe-
for  crops, paaturea. market and kitchen gardens or to lie falna; 1979 dose.                   habilteasion craters.  Hospitals are establisehoso  pe            illaneneip  ItEffd
by at least one rhysitien.    yrahlishmenee peontdicg principaily osetf-
loP FER CAPITA full  - ltP per oapltu estImates at correct market prices. cal                      dial care are mt ittloded.  Rural hospitala. howener, itclude health
oaiated tbc name conversaon eschnd an Vcrla Rank Atlas f1978-dO ba-s)s; 19SF0,                   aad medtcal ceateesenos permanently staffed IF 0 pfysiriaa  fist by a
197,. asd 196f data.                                                                             medinal esn istant, sueeni d_tfe, of m hiob offer cis-paient aoco-
ENERGY' CONShU'fTION PFR CAPlTA - anoal coonsupnion of coemercial energY (coal                     rical purpoyee arias hospital.   Includ elon Wdsrlsctpeligseral hospitals,
and ltgnite, pac-oleon. tatural gas and hydro-. nuclaar and geothermal eiec-                     sod roral hospttals, lanai  or rural hospitals nd  edical and maternity
telcisy) ic ktlogeaas of coal equivalet per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                         centers.  Specialiaed hospitals are included oely coder total.
dsta.                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~from hospirals dtvidnd hy lie acn e  of htref ds. sos  oo   ith
FiPIICATIII 1111 flOatr IfATIlffIEny  ie                                                                                                   dl--,e
YOPLUITON AND VITAL STArISTICS                                                                          hpl1   iie   yh   ob,o   o~
Total Population, lid-Year (elousandof - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 19S0                  HOUSING
date.                                                                                        deAge...e.    o  Itatlid  oees.oa Pet h-nnholdf  - total o-bs, and rr
'rbasn  aPoplatton foercent of  otnelf - gas Is of urban no total popolatlot;                    d househafd conaisnP  of a group of irdinidoalf  also tiar'  lining Anedrtral
different definitiaons of urban areas may offact comparahtlbiiy of data                        and their maln meals.. A boarder or lodger noy or noy nat be ittioded Is
among countries; O19U. 1970. anad lI9   dota.                                                  the  .nusethld fee stattstical pu-po-es.
Poyulation Frojecitona                                                                         Aerage _tber of persons per -oa  -total  urhan,andrural- anerage nun
Fooulation in year 2000 - Curreut populacion projectlPns are oased no  19B0                    boo of persans  oer roes is all uehan, sod rural occupied cacventional
totai ypoplation hy age and sex and theft morseitty and fertilIty  eases.                   dvelliogs, respectinely.  Lvellings eoclude non-permanest structuees and
Projection paruartara for marcohity razas comnntsa of three tennIs anssum                   unoccupied Forts.
lng lift enpectancy at birth increasing sith co.ttry s pee capita income                  Atcees to tlectririty  (percent of deellngal - tonal, arhb, and roral -
-el. ond female ltfa sopetetncy -     a-hbti'I.  at I77.  years.  fin rora-                 Cnnenti onal daellings aith tlertrcity  to lining qu_rrer asp
mens for fertilc,y rere also hate  three lenels assu=ing decline tn                         of total, urhan, and tre: deellings  -espeeti-sly.
fertility  accordlog to income lerel and pest fImlI  ylanilng perEforance.
Each conotey isten assigned ace of the_e  ninne sbitations of mortality                 EDUCATIiN
and fertility  trends for projec-don purposes.                                            Adfaatnd Enrollmest Rallon
St_nlnsscy poynlation-It a sarshnaey porulen-ot thene les no grotlh lsince                     Primadry  chool - total, els and female - Goss total. mle and lemale
hie hirnth rate is eqaal In the death rate. and elno nhe age structure re-                     enoolimaent of all ages an the primary leel as percentages of respe_reft
memo consfant.  Thin is achi-eed otly after fel,LyifY  rates decline to                        primary nohool-age popoLetions; normally inrudes ch.idren aged h-1i
the reylanemest lenel of unit net repr duction rate.,  hen each generton                       years hat adjusted for different lengths of pritary edacation- toe
of enmen reglaces ltself coa-tsly.  Theete  totary porulation sien nun                         cuntries vith uoInarsal education enrollment _y et_eed 1l0  peenst
estimated on tIe hasis of the pryjdected charennestics of the population                       since sae pupila are belon or share the offIcial school age.
ln theoyear 20G0,.asd the rate of declinei of feetllty rae to replace-                       Secondarschool - toal.=leand fe=le-_Computed asIaoe;secondary
meer lenel.                                                                                    educatitonrequireeeat leant feat yearn nf o yypprod primary itsneaceloe;
fear  attabonarn  yopiliarion nsurearhed - fin year F hen s-a-leoary ropolarooj                  pronides_ general. vocatinnal. or teacher teaining inrrrecane far puyils
ti-e ell he reached.                                                                           anoiply of 12 to 17 years of ase; correspondence courses see geneeally
Population Ilennity                                                                                excluded.
Pen sq. km. -  ttd-ye"t pnyulaslan pen squats cilom"ent (101  hectunes) of                   Vocationol enrollmeet (netoent of seo-odnty) - I-ocainal inslitotlant
total area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                       include tenhti-al, industrial, or other programs which operate independ-
Per nq. km. agriceleural land - lempoled assharoe for agricultural land                        ently or as departnts nf secondary institutions.
nly; 1960,  19  and 1179 data.                                                             Ppil-tacher rati  - priary  an              dy               dt        lld in
Population Age steactore (percent) - Children I.-II yearf) , vorking-age (fI-                    pri=y a-d senondary lenels dieided by asrts of teachers is  hel
61 yearn), atd retired (6) years and noer) an percentagos of mid-year pops-                    coreesponding lenelt.
(atios; 1960, 1970, and 1910 data.                                                           Aduit literacn rate (yercen   - Literate adolst (else to read and weiss)
ropulation Gr-sth Rste (percent) - total - Annual growth eates of stoal mid-                     amapercentage of focal adull poyplaei-n aged 1S years and over.
year papulation for 1950-6h, 1960-70, ond 1970-f0.
PopulationGiroeth Rs_e (percent) -urban - Anal growlh rates of urban pep-                   CONSUPTIlN
tations foe 1950-60. 1960-70F, ad 1970-80.                                                   Passengee Cars lper thonsand noesla            Feo e - Pasnenger cars comprise  -osr
Etude Birthr F-ate (per thousand) - Ano-A1 liie binthte pes nh-usd of nid-yrar                   harm  seating lena than eight persons; texcldes atbulances, hearses and
population; 196b  1970i , and 19i0 data.                                                       eilitary vhlicle.
Crude  Death sate (per 5honsad) - Aonuai deaths pee tho.sand  of mid-year                      Rgdio lecetners free thousand population) - All types of re.einers far redio
ppulayiaon; 1960. 1970. and 19 0 data.                                                         broadcasrs t  general poblis   per  Ihousand of pepniati-n; excludes at-
Irons Ryroducpion Ste - Aerage ,gooer of daughters a               Io'an wIll hear in            litenmed rece iert In countries end in years thIen regstration of nadio
her norml reprdodctine peroad If she experiences presser age-specsific fe-                     sets was En effect; data for recent  years may ens be coparaibls  ineo
siliiy rates; asoally five-yeac averaAss etdl--  g ic 1960, 19i0, and 1980.                    mst conotriee  aonished lccnoa5o5.
Family Plssnlng-lAcetorts, Annuel (thousands) - Annua L nmbe, of  -cepyo-s                     TV Receiters (per thousand yolatio) - TV receiners foe broadcast tn
of birth-control d-ioces under ausspice  of natia.al family plauning pregtEn.                  general publac pFr thousand ppoplation, earloden unlicensed TV receivero
FPoly Planniog - Usern  (Fpaent of  arird women)  -             Percentage of marrind           in countries end in yearn vhen -   egiatrati   atof tV sets was nt effect.
amasn of child-hearing oge (l 5-44 years)  olh  one birih--onteol  devices to                Nmvspaper Circulation (per chousand populetion) - Sh-v the a-erage eir-
all married eomen in same age go-up.                                                           culatint of  'daily general inteest nevsypper", defined essygrindical
POOD AND NUTRTITONX                                                                                to be '"raiey' if io P.an.ly to recordinS esneel tevs   It is considered
laden of Feed Feodunclon pee Capita (1969-71=100) - Idnde  of pei tapira annval                Cinema Aonsul Attendance pen Eapita per Year- Bsed on the  unhber of
produntion of all food comedities.  Frodactios e-cludes seed and feed and                      tickets sold dring the year, innclding ad=ssinns to drins-lncinePas
is on calendar year basi_. CEanditie  ov-er prlmary goods f.g. sogarcane                       and eebils  oiltn.
instead of sugar) whinh are edible and cottais nonrietnI (e.g. coEfree nd
nrs ass excluded).  Aggregate pyod-ction of each coontry is based  on                     LASOR aORCE
netionol average producer price noights; 1961-5, 1910, end 1980 deat.                        -tbol Lmr Force fntntnod,( -   onucilp ectlne porson  including
Par  capita supyly of    lIe  (perctf of          iemen   - Composed fill                        arm=ed  Eces and unempleyed ist enoliadng hoasewines. stode-ts, ete..
energy equlneinns of net food  suppliens aailble in country per capitc                         catering ppoistitn  of a1l ages.  Defliitlons in nari... conatets  are
per day.  A-aslable sFpplies comprise domestic pr-duction, impFrr-  lens                       non c     -mparbhit; 1960. 1910 and l9Oa  da _a.
enyorns, and changes in stor      N      ppE,letuFlies exclude aniPal feed, seeds,             Feale (percent) - Ferle  laor force en percentage of sotal lae farce.
quantitire  used in fcod processing, end lessen to disirihution.  Requite-                    Agric-lsure (pcr-ent) - Ltboe force In fanmiog, forentry,  hsnt and
masts veren esimated hy FAO based nn physiologicol nseds for nnnmai ant-                         fishing an perysenage of total labor force; 1960, 1910 and 1910 data.
nity and health c-nsideringb tnvr onmrotel renpereree  body -eights, age                       lndnnnry (percest) - Labo  force in ricing, ansutructinn, manufm toring
and se-  distributio  of population, and allovnog 10 perce-t                 n                   sod electricity   ater end gas as p--cennege of tonal labor force;
.ousehold I.-el; 1961-61, 19170 and 1977 data.                                                   1961, 19i0 and 1910 da.
Per capina supply of protein (grams pen day) - Protein control of yen  pile                    Firnicipation sate (percent) - atal.. male, tad femle  -                     outtriytinn er
art supply of feed pye  day.  Net 5UppIy of food Is defined an abovm.  nR-                    ac-inity rates ore computed as total, mle, and female labor force en
qaltrmeszts foe all cnounsies rnahitlshed by USDA provide foe eioimue                          Fercentages of total, mAle and female papolation pf all a ge5 nenpeninely;
allovances of 60 groRg of tonal protein per day and 20 gramo of animal and                     1960, 1970, cod 1950 data.  These arc hosed on ilne per-Tlratie- raesse
pulse protein, of which 10 gramo should ho ani=l prests.  These stand-                         reflecting  age-non structure of the populaion., and iong time  trend.  A
ards are lawer than those of 75 grass of to1na  peosein and 23 grsRl of                        fee estimates are Oroansinal souensa.
anImal prosoic  as average for the wo ld, proposed by FAQ in the Third                     fconomic Dependency Ratin  - Raio of pepulerion snder 11 and 65 and over
World yood i- tesy; 19h1-h5, 1917  ad 1907 data.                                               to she tntal l,ebh  force.
Fee cayita peatein supply from animal and puls  - Frtei  supply of fond de-
rind fan  nialsandpsiesI       ..gas  Pec day; (961-A5l. 19FF and 1911 data.       INCOMfE DISlTRIUTION
Cid (e  1-4 ea   se (pe                       day;   dh -       e 0 and   in                 Perceage  f Pri-ate Ipnome (both in cosh and kind) - Rel ived by richemI
age grour X-q years, to children in thIs Age group, foe meet inteloping noun-                  I pfetret. richest ZO pyrrent, yoorest 20 penr-et, and poorest 4a percent
tries date denived floe life tablet; 1960, 1970 ad 1980 data,                                 of households.
RgA LTd                                                                                        POVRRTY TARGET GROUPS
Life lopecamcn,y at Besh (yeses) - Ayerage nomber of years of life remaning                    The Pollowing en elmstnn ore very approni=te  e asses of payeety leYels.
at bi-eh; 160.I0,0         1980 data.                                                         mnd sould be I         -eterresad teth cnnsiderable cantien.
Infant martality Rate (per th.osand) - Aonsal deat-s of infants onder one rear                 Es.imated Abolare PFvrsy Income Level (U1S per capita) - urbh and roral -
of age pen thassod line hirtbs; 196tl  1910 and lolO data.                                     gbsis-te poserty incme lntel is that inoomt tenet belta  whih a minimal
Access to Wafe Oater (percent  of populationl  - tonal, arbna, and rural - Nom-                  n-ritinailly adonnots dIet plan essencial sen-fEnd reqet ee Int  is net
ber of people (total, urban, and r-nI) with reasonsle accensto s.         e                    aoffrdable.
eater supply (ipolades treated surface masers or ontreated bha  aucnnsaminated               etsimated Relati-e Paersn Ipcame Lenel (UgS per capita) - ueb-an and rural -
saner such as that En= prosecsed breeholes. sprIngs, and sanitary mells) as                    Rueal relatine po-erty income ledl in oue-third of anerage peer ospita
ofthmie reapacsne populattonm.  Is as arise area a pobic                 son     .p ..s ttcue ofre lecutry.  Urban tenet i  del-ed fte nti  rural
fos-tain or standposn lcased oat mare than 200 tnets Fe f s  house mAY he                    level vish adjustment for oNhear  essa t  lining in arias areas.
considered as being nithin .esasnable access of than hass.  In rarel areas                   Reti-eted Populasieo  Bel_e dbsolute Poyerty Inem  Lr,el (perennt) - urban
remanatebl  access vould imply that she h.usemt se  embes ef tim  hoasetold                   sd nTurel - Percent of pepatsine (arian a=d rural) mho ear  "assolute
do  ono hsae ti  spend a disproporttinate poet of the day  in fntohing the                     poor".
f-mily. -atee needs.
A.ceat to tEnreta Dispoeal (emrcent nI Population) - tonal, 1.eba. and eural -
Nuober of people (total. urban. aed rurel) senred by excreta disposal as
percentages at their respective populasionm. gaorets dimpan.. may include
the ealleegine sad dimpasel, mith or  "ithOeg treatuetL. af bum emerets
and maste-meter by  teer-bh..e spa sesras tie Psa oa  pit prinle-  and simi-
mer inatallesiene.
Pp=elation see Pheahnian - Populatsfn divided by enber of paestifing phy.i-                                                          ioen.mie and S-Lcal Data Divirian
cians gualtEied  tEem a -edi-al aehs.I at -miters-ty level.                                                                   Aamno  icamly.sim  sad Fero      n Des--partrem
Papeletion pee Nusineg Pe.s.n  - Popultttin divided by nnblee af preetiting                                                                       Kay 19d2
male and ftase graduate ....e.. sa. tat esemem. p-si.eel aPemem and
encasing amailiartem.



- 23 -                                                           ARMI  I
pager0f 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMET DATA 8CSXT
(in millions of current EK)
Average GDP growth rates in 7.
(at-constt 1970 prices)
1970      1976       1978       1979       l980       1981    1, 1970-76          1976-81
A. National Acconntsl/
1.  GDP                                             5,180      3,570      4,220      4,260      4,590     5,017          -5.3              3.7
2.  Coosomption                                     3,940      5,190      6,210      6,590      7,329      7,320
Private                                       3,180      3,890      4,750      5,020     5,D90      4,940
Poblic                                          760      1,300      1,460     1,510      2,239      2,380
3.  Gross Investment                                   470       380        31O        420        674     1,495
%       4.  Domestic Savings                                 1,120    -1,880    -2,310    -2,680    -2,620    -2,303
S.  Exports, fncl. NFS                              2,720      1,620      2,930      3,110      1,907      3,723
6.  Imports, incl. tTFS                            -1,950    -3,620    -5,230    -5,860    -5,320    -7,521
7. GDP (in millions of US$,-
exchange rate of 1981)                           27.1       18,7       22.1       22,3      24,0       26,3
8.  GDP (in nillions of US1,
torrent eochange rates)                          74.0       53.4       55.2       55.7      32,0       26.3
B. Sector Otput                                                                                                           1970      1976       1978       1979       1980      1981
Value Added                                          5,180     3,570      4,220      4,260      4,590      5,017     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
1. Agriculture                                      3,430      1,490      2,070      1,990      2,100     2,500       66.2       41.7       49.1      46.7       45.8       49.8
2.  Industry                                           195       250        210        220        230        250       3.8        7.0        5.0        5.2       5.0        5.0
3.  Services                                        1,555      1,830      1,940      2,050      2,260     2,267       30.0       51.3       45.9      48.1       49.2       45.2
C. Public Finance
1.  Budget Revenue                                    813          ,                           2,706      2,732
of which:  Tra  revenue                             ..        .,          .          .     1,112      2,303
Non-tax revenue                         ..        ..          .          .      1,594       429
2.  Current expenditure                                589        ,,         ,,         ,,      3,476     2,788
3.  Capital expenditure                                651         ..         ,,        ,,        674         95
4. udget noplus on deficit                            -427        ..         ..         ..    -1,444        -151
5.  Financing                                         427          .1 ,,                ,,    1,444          151
Foreign graots and suppliers credit             172         ,,
Tresoury                                        329         .                              231         -
Central BSnk (set)                               -                     ,,         ,,     1,213        151
Other                                           -74         ..         ..         ..        ..
Average Annual Growth Rates
D. MusetarY Sury                                                                                                                  1976-1980
1. Money and Quasi-Money                              763      3,057      3,594      3,606     5,387                             15.2
2.  Domestic Credit                                    44      2,332      1,661      1,295      7,923                            35.8
Credit to Public Sector                        -559        738       -665      -959        Z54
Credit to PrIvate Sector                        603      1,594     2,326      2,254      7,669
3. Money end Quasi-loney as I of GDP                    17        85.6       85.2       84.6      117.4
4.  Doneotic Credit o 7. of GDP                                   65.3       39.4       30.4      157.9
1! Official nxchang  rates hove be-n used.                                                                                                                         October 1982
2/  Budget figures.



- 24 -                                                                    ANSEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(in millions of 00 current dollars)
1970     1976      1978      1979     1980      1901
(Pray.)  (PFol.)  (Prel.)  (-FreE.)
Exports, ijol. SFS                                                        25.0       9.7     23.5      28.5      13.3      19.5
Ixpor-s, ijl. NFS                                                        -22.6    -12.2    -16.1    -23.6    -37.1    -39,4
Resource Balance                                                           2.4      -2.5       7.4      4.9    -23.8    -19.9
Factor Services (oat)                                                     -5.5       0.2     -0.4      -0.9      -0.8      -0.6
Correot Account Bals-ce (excludiog public transfers)                      -3.1      -2.3       7.0      4.0    -24.6    -20.5
Public Transfers (oat)                                                      ..        ,,        ,         ,,      3.5       3.9
Capital (ret)                                                                    5-0.1        -0.8        -       1.2       6.5
SDR allocation                                                               -         -         -      1.3       1.3       1.3
Truot Fund                                                                             -         -         -      5.9         -
Errors sod oxissiona                                                                -6.4    -17.9       1.4      -1.3      -2.4
Increase in reserves (i)                                                            -8.8    -11.7       6.7    -14.0    -11.2
Level of cat foreign assets (end year)                                    13.0                         20.0       6.0
Exchange ra-e                                                             70.0      66.9      76.5     76.5    143.4    190.9
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(in aillion of 00 currant dollars)
Shlare in 7 of Total
1970     1976      1978      1979     1980      1981           1970      1976      1978      1979     1985      1981
ERp-rta. t.o.b.                                                                                                                          100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    ICO.0
Cocoa                                                                   15.2      8.4      23.0      27.3      11.3     14.6           65.0      86.6      97.9      95.8     85.0      81.1
C*ff-e                                                                   5.4       1.0      0.5       0.8       2.0      3.0          -23.0-    10.3        2.1       2.8     15.0      16.7
Wood                                                                     2.8       0.3         -      0.4         -       0.4           12.0       3.1        -       1.4         -      2.2
EXTEENAL DEBT, December 31, 1980
(in milliono of US dollars)
Public Debt, including publicly guaranteed          76.2
Poblic Debt, diubursad only                         41.0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1981
Public Debt, disbursed                               8.2
IBRD/IDA Lending. Fabruacy 1982
October 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Credit                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Number     Year    Borrower         Purpose             Total    Undisbursed
362-EG     1973    Republic of    Highway Maintenance  2.0            2.0 1/
Equatorial
Guinea
1/ This Credit was cancelled in April 1976 at the request of the Government.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Nil.
C. Projects in Execution
None.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   Seven months
(b)  Project prepared by:               IDA
(c)  Identification mission:            June 1981
(d)  Appraisal mission:                 November 1981
(e)  Negotiations:                      September 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   March 1983
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Action:  An advance under the Project
Preparation Facility of US$150,000 was granted to the Government
in April 1982 to cover project expenditures incurred before
Credit signing.
Section III.  Special Conditions
(i)  The Government would consult with the Association on the
conclusions and recommendations of the consultants particu-
larly before implementing any recommendation with respect
to the need for further technical assistance (para. 43).
(ii)  The Government would, by the end of June 1984 at the latest,
inform the Association of the concrete measures for estab-
lishing a permanent energy information system (para. 43).
(iii)  The Government would by March 1983 submit to IDA a
proposal on measures to upgrade key posts and to improve
career development prospects for DPA's professional staff
(para. 46).
(iv) The Government would report to IDA at the end of each
calendar year, starting in 1983, on the staffing of DPA
(para. 46).



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Exploration Monitoring                              Period/Completed by
Selection and Hiring of Consultants                 November-June 1983
Assistance in Negotiations with Companies           October 1982-June 1983
First Re-evaluation of Hydrocarbon Potential        December 1983
Company Monitoring                                  April 1983-June 1985
Training                                            October 1982-June 1985
Second Re-evaluation of Hydrocarbon Potential       December 1984
Third Re-evaluation of Hydrocarbon Potential        December 1985
Energy Sector Information
Selection and Hiring of Consultants                 November 1982-June 1983
Energy Data Collection and Analysis                 September-November 1982
Energy Consumption Survey                           November 1983-March 1984
Final Report                                        September 1984
Scholarships
Selection of Candidates                             June 1983
Studies Abroad                                      October 1983-December 1985
Project Administration
Selection and Hiring of Specialist                  March 1982 (under PPF)
Country Assignment                                  April 1982-March 1985



- 28 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ENERGY PRICING
1.         The prices of petroleum products are set by the Presidency
on the basis of proposals from EEPGE (President's Report, para. 23).
During most of the 1970s, these prices were held at levels insufficient
to cover costs.  This policy has since been altered: prices of petroleum
products have been increased by nearly 400%, on average, since late 1980.
The prices of premium motor gasoline, gas oil, and kerosene in December
1981 were US$2.50/gal, US$1.79/gal, and US$1.45/gal, respectively, which
were in line with price levels prevailing in other African countries.
Large differentials remain between the prices of motor gasoline and those
of all other products. There is some subsidization of kerosene, which,
however, is justified by social objectives and is more than compensated
for by the surplus obtained from the sale of other products. The structure
of domestic prices of petroleum products is shown below:
Structure of Main Petroleum Product Prices - December 1981
(US/gal. equivalent)
Regular      Premium
Gasoline    Gasoline    Kerosene        Gas Oil
Import Price (cif)                 122.6        125.7        137.0         135.0
Import Duty                         73.6         75.4         13.7         13.5
Marketing Cost a/                   18.4         18.9          20.5        20.3
Cost to EEPGE a/                   214.6        220.0        171.2         168.8
EEPGE Margin a/                      7.7         22.7        -30.0         5.3
Sales Tax (3%)                       6.7          7.3          4.2         5.2
Retail Price                       229.0        250.0        145.4         179.3
a/ Mission estimates. Marketing costs are assumed to equal 15% of cif
import price.
Source: EEPGE; Customs Department; mission estimates.
2.         Electricity tariffs have also been insufficient to cover costs.
For social reasons, and in order to stimulate economic activity, tariffs
were lowered in 1979 and have not been changed since then. Present kWh
charges are EK 20 (US11) for residential consumers and EK 30 (US16)



- 29 -                          ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
for industrial consumers, compared to an operating cost of about EK 50/kWh.
In practice, most residential users pay a flat fee irrespective of their
actual consumption. This has produced heavy losses for ENEERGE (President's
Report, para. 22), the 1981 budget of which projected revenues amounting
to only about two thirds of operating expenditures, leaving a shortfall
of EK 56 million (US$0.3 million).
3.        While there are no major issues with regard to petroleum pricing,
the Association has pointed out the issues relating to prices of electricity
to the Government. At this stage, however, the Association is not yet
insisting on corrective action as a condition of proceeding with the
proposed project, pending a review of the electricity sector and of the
Association's overall role in the energy sector. Since the proposed
project focuses mainly on petroleum exploration and on the gathering
of data on the energy sector, it would not be an appropriate vehicle
for a discussion of electricity pricing. Once more relevant data are
available as a result of the energy information system to be established
under the proposed project (President's Report, para. 43), a detailed
energy pricing analysis can be undertaken and energy pricing issues can
be addressed in the Association's dialogue with the Government.



- 30 -
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PETROLEUM SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.       Petroleum Sector
Hydrocarbon Law - June 23, 1981
Production Sharing Model Contract
Hydrocarbon Potential Study - Petroconsultants - February 1981
2.       Renewable Energy Sector
FAO: Perspectives de Developpement Forestier en Guinee Equatoriale
et Programme d'Action, November 1980
UNDP/IFST:   Prefeasibility Study of the Utilization of Wood as Fuel
in Equatorial Guinea 1981
3.       Overall Economy
Secretaria Tecnica para el Plan de Desarrollo:
Situacion Economica y Financiera           1980
Boletin Estadistico                        1980



It *',O                                                       IBRD  10259R
9. ~~~~~~~~o.a                                                                                    F          OCTOBER 1982
4  Doua a
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
J, MALABO
,,, B    Baney                                                                                            Existing asphalt roads
Baloe i                                                                                                                  Existing later[te roads
Planned roads
BIOKO                                                                                             Rivers
Luba                                                                                                                4    Ports
Batete                                                                     -.                                                  Airports
^   I  >'  t {i^ORiaba                                                                                                      Bridges
I Mtsols-   i  )                                                            >,         !                         -*-.  International bounda ries
1 olk             /                                                                                                                                         0        
35                                                        Ebolowaj
CAMEROON
Rio Campo                        K
2 ' C A A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kue                                                                     comeseng                    e2-
-20
ANNOBON 1.                                                B                                                                                            2 \
O                                     >                         8NI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~efang  n Ansoc X   avB
1030                        130'
5030                        60
Mbini       _      Senye                R    D    M  U  NJ.}I
90~~~~~~~~~~
9                                                                                       Qclalbot2 ,cE
MA'I.          A ,                          |                                                             /Eiaog                                              AsokR    <
[MALI--/    NIGER                                                                                                 v  ayn
VOLA TA                            CHAD
If         ~NIGER/A        f
' 4t tEltl!       ,~V   O             P \                   Akalayong cogk
a~~~0~~~    ~ ~~Y ~~EL OBEY CHICO,
tEQUArCORIAL  -~-!*-    0$                ELOBEY GRANADEI                                     _______________
* GUINEAS                                                                              0         20        40       60         80
GABGVN   U  '         CORISCOI. I                                           r      _20          4,0   ,  60   , ' K;ometersJI
Annobonl.               .  0                                                 B G B N          o       10      20      30     40       5
)                                    ~~~GABON                                                        -Mis
"5- f'ZA I RE                                                     rhos tnas has been prepared hy the Wss,a Bane a staff easthstssvy f-r the or vsen n -
Ms/iles         1i-  - A                                                           f the teaders of the sesort to wh'cS' Is attashe, The ttensas-nstsh an ta
0          500         10oo                                                                   ntra55. th55.p             mr;an part n/n  Wed' W(Sas-ad e
'.>                                                    ascehtsnse af st,sh housasarea
0     500      000    500    ANGOLA                                                                     
K~io-eeslrI                                                                         10"l                                                   IP1



