Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15806
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2470-CO)
JUNE 24, 1996
Environment and Urban Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforTnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    Colombian Peso (Col $)
EXCHANGE RATE EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 1984
US$1.00 = Col$92.3
Col$1.00 = US$0.0108
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CRAS           Water and Sanitation Regulatory Comission
DNP            National Planning Department
EAAB            Water and Sewerage Company of BogotA
EMC            Water and Sewerage Company of Cucuta
FINDETER        Territorial Development Financing Agency
INSFOPAL       National Institute of Urban Development
SSPD           Superintendency of Domiciliary Public Services
UFW            Unnacounted For Water



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY.11
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................                                                                1
1. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................1
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..........................1.....1
3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................9
4.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  ............................................................ 11
5.  BANK  PERFORMANCE ............................................................                                                       12
6.  BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ............................................................                                                   13
7.  ASSESSMENT  OF  OUTCOME  ............................................................                                                14
8.  FUTURE  OPERATIONS ............................................................                                                      15
9.  KEY  LESSONS  LEARNED  ............................................................                                                  16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ............................................................                                                            18
TABLE  1: SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ............................................................                                           18
TABLE 2: RELATED  BANK  LOANS ............................................................                                               19
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE  ................................................................ 19
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ..................... 20
TABLE  5: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ........................................... 21
TABLE 6: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..................................................... 21
TABLE  7: STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT ............................................................ 22
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ............................................................                                                     23
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING   ............................................................                                               24
TABLE  9: ECONOMiC  RATE OF RETURN  ............................................................ 24
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................................................                                         25
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................. 28
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS    ............................................................ 28
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES:  MISSION ............................................................                                        29
ANNEX 1  ............................................................                                                                                29
ANNEX 2 ............................................................                                                                                 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dutics. Its contents rnay not otherwise bc disclosed wiLhout World E3ank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2470 - CO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cuicuta Water Supply and
Sewerage Project in Colombia for which Loan 2470-CO of US$18.5 millon equivalent was
approved on September 11, 1984, and became effective on April 30, 1985.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995, 36 months later than the original closing date (June
30, 1992). Final disbursement took place on July 6, 1995, at which time a balance of
US$374.299.24 was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the National
Government and by FINDETER (Local Loans).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Menahem Libhaber (LA3EU) and by Mr. German Silva
(Consultant) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, and reviewed by Mr. Eugene D.
McCarthy (Division Chief, LA3EU) and Mr. Robert Crown (Project Adviser, LA3DR).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervisi6n/completion mission in
February 1995. It is based on material in the project files. The borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by working closely with the team which prepared the ICR and by
providing comments on the draft ICR, which have been incorporated into the final document.






- i -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2470-CO
COLOMBIA
Introduction
i.    Colombia, with a population of about 35 million inhabitants, 70% of which is urban, has
made impressive strides in expanding its water and sanitation sector in the past decade. Over 76%
of the population has now access to drinking water, while sanitary sewerage covers 64% of
households in the country. The coverage levels in the four biggest urban centers of Bogota,
Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla, which together account for 30% of the population, is
substantially higher, at 88% for water and 85% for sewerage. The demand for improving and
expanding the water supply and sewerage services is still high. Nevertheless, major institutional
problems persist, having their origin in highly politicized utility companies and lack of
accountability and performance. A new regulatory framework conducive to efficiency
improvements, expanded private sector participation in the delivery of public services, greater
accountability, and more arm's length relationship between utilities and local politicians was
legislated by the Government as Public Services Law (Law 142) enacted in July 1994. The
Government's main sector goals are to: (a) restructure the existing institutions; (b) increase
national household coverage of water and sewerage services; (c) improve the quality of drinking
water from public systems; and (d) formulate and initiate implementation of wastewater treatment
strategy for the largest cities. Since 1968 the Bank has made 14 loans, totaling US$700 million,
for water supply and sanitation development in Colombia.
Statement of Project Objectives
ii.    The Cu:cuta water supply and sewerage project had two main objectives: (a) to improve
and expand water supply, sewerage and storm drainage services in the city of Cucuta; and (b) to
help the water company of Cucuta, Empresas Municipales de Cucuta (EMC), develop into a
strong multi-service municipal company which could serve as a model for similar companies in
other medium-size Colombian cities.
Achievement of Objectives
iii.    While the institutional strengthening of EMC was not accomplished and its conversion to
a model utility did not take place, most of the physical works provided for by the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), with the exception of a small component of drainage works, were executed, i.e.,
100% of the upgrading and expansion of the water supply systems, 100% of the Zulia river water



- iii -
supply scheme and over 95% of upgrading and expansion of the sewerage systems. As a result of
the project, the water and sewerage coverage rates in Cucuta were increased to 90% each, and
the water supply flow to the city has been almost doubled by the Zulia river water supply scheme,
a new water source and its ancillary supply works, which has been brought on stream. The main
impact of the new water supply works is ensuring continuous supply to a low-income population
of about 250,000 inhabitants (40 % of the city's population), which prior to project completion,
either had no access at all to water supply or received water under severe rationing conditions.
Taking into consideration the successful achievement of the important project objective of
improving and expanding the water supply and sewerage services in the city of Cucuta, the
project has been rated as marginally satisfactory, even though-the objective of institutional
improvement has not been achieved.
Major Factors which Affected Project Implemetation
iv.   Implementation of the project was negatively affected by a number of factors:
* the political climate in the city, manifested by substantial and continuous interference
by local politicians in EMC's management. The individual interests of these politicians
took precedence over the institutional well being of EMC and the need for this
company to provide an efficient service to its customers;
* EMC's institutional weaknesses and the constant changes in its key personnel, resulting
from the political intervention;
v  EMC's chronic financial problems and its difficulty in generating counterpart resources
due to high administrative and operating costs and the combined impact of a very high
Unaccounted For Water (UFW) percentage, lack of political will to raise tariffs to the
necessary levels, the rigidities created by the strong labor unions, and a burdensome
collective labor agreement;
* lack of consistency and clarity in the criteria both by the Bank and by EMC concerning
the design of the wastewater treatment plant during an extended period including
preparation and implementation. The final design of the treatment plant, which was
prepared during the last year of project implementation, appears to be meeting the
appropriate capacity, technology, and environmental protection demands.
v.    The contracting of a Fiduciary Agency which acted, during the extension period, as the
project executing agency, had an obvious positive impact on the project. This operational
arrangement allowed the successful completion of the Zulia river water supply works, the project
component that will probably yield the greatest benefit for the city of Cucuta.



- iv -
Project Sustainability
vi.    Despite the success achieved in executing the Zulia river water supply works, the project's
sustainability is still in doubt due to the pattern of intervention by local politicians in the
company's administrative decisions, constant changing of EMC managers, lack of continuity of
qualified personnel in key positions and unsatisfactory operational and administrative procedures.
Sustainability will depend mainly on the commitment of local leaders to help in solving the type of
problems which EMC is facing, as well as on continuous monitoring and strict control on the part
of the new supervisory bodies set up recently by Law 142, the Water and Sanitation Regulatory
Commission (Comision Reguladora de Agua y Saneamiento--CRAS) and the Superintendency of
Domestic Public Services (Superintendencia de Servicios Publicos Domiciliarios--SSPD), with
respect to the adoption of an appropriate institutional structure. Internally, project sustainability
will depend on urgent implementation of the UFW control program and on financial rehabilitation
of the company through tariff adjustment, a basic requirement to enable EMC to meet its
operational, network expansion and debt-service costs.
Bank Performance
vii.   The Appraisal Report accurately identified the major expansion needs. The main risks
identified in the SAR were EMC's institutional and financial weaknesses, particularly those
attributable to the commitment of national and local authorities to timely adjustment of tariffs.
The risk of delays in implementation of physical works was rated as low. This risk was clearly
underestimated, in view of the innumerable problems encountered during the project. Interference
by local politicians in project management and in EMC's internal management, a situation that
obviously had a very unfavorable impact on the project by weakening EMC's managerial and
administrative capability, was not deemed to represent a risk. The estimated cost for construction
of the wastewater treatment plant was considerably lower than required. Consequently,
management of the program for construction of the wastewater treatment plant was not always
satisfactory and the plant was eventually not constructed under the project.
viii.  The Bank suspended disbursements in late December, 1990, when it became convinced
that the borrower was not honoring its commitments; it did not cancel the loan, however, seeking
instead corrective actions by EMC. In this case, the Bank's flexible approach undoubtedly
allowed the completion of the Zulia river works, a component essential to the supply of water to
Cucuta's lower-income population. It also led EMC to a position which enables it to increase its
revenues through the sale of the incremental water supplied by the project, and improve its
financial situation. However, it was not successful in resolving EMC's institutional crisis.
ix.   In view of EMC's limited creditworthiness and debt servicing capacity, the size of the
approved loan ($18.5 million) was too big for that company.



Borrower Performance
x.    The institutional weakness of the borrower (EMC), the constant interference by local
politicians in its administration and the resulting instability of its key personnel prevented
achievement of one of the main project objectives, that of converting EMC into a model
enterprise.
xi.   EMC's inadequate financing capacity, combined with its inability to reduce the UFW
percentage and the lack of political will to raise water tariffs and get rid of surplus personnel,
forced the guarantor (the Govemment of Colombia) to assume responsibility for repayment of the
loan obligations, with only one exception, when EMC made a repayment in the second half of
1995.
xii.   Chronic local political interference and the weakness of EMC's managerial capacity
compelled the National Government to require that project management be entrusted to a
Fiduciary Agency, independent of EMC and relatively free from local and regional political
pressures and interference.
xiii.  The National Government, particularly DNP and, to a certain extent, FINDETER,
provided continuous support to the project and contributed to resolution of the problems that
arose during project implementation. However, they were not effective in bringing about
institutional improvements in EMC. It also undertook a radical institutional reform by enacting
Law 142 in July 1994, which created an appropriate framework for the efficient operation of
water supply and sewerage utilities in the future. The success of this reform still depends on the
Govemment's effectiveness in enforcing this Law.
Assessment of Outcome
xiv.   Overall, the project results can be regarded as marginally satisfactory. Implementation of
the works took place satisfactorily, though behind schedule. On the other hand, the scheduled
institutional strengthening programs and studies were not all carried out, and those that were,
were either not performed satisfactorily, or their recommendations were not implemented by
EMC.
xv.   Calculation of the economic Intemal Rate of Retum (IRR) for the project, performed by
EMC on the basis of project costs and marginal benefits over the next 30 years, assuming that the
current tariffs remain unchanged in Dollar terms and that UFW losses are reduced to 35 percent,
yielded an IRR for the principal project component of -0.08 percent, which is unsatisfactory.
Sensitivity analysis of the IRR to: (i) changes in the UFW percentage; and (ii) adjustment of the
average water tariff, shows that the project could have been economically satisfactory had EMC
implements a strict program for reduction of UFW losses and increased the tariffs by 40%.



- vi -
Future Operations
xvi.  In 1994, in light of the water supply sector's serious institutional problems, the National
Congress enacted Law 142/94, regulating domestic public utilities' services. The Law assigned
institutional responsibility for the water supply and basic sanitation sector to the Ministry of
Economic Development. It also set up a Water and Sanitation Regulatory Commission (CRAS)
and a Superintendency of Domestic Public Services (SSPD), responsible for overseeing these
public enterprises and assessing their financial, technical and administrative management.
Although implementation of the reform has barely begun, the situation of the sector and its
enterprises is expected to improve substantially in the medium term. Law 142 also provides that,
effective July 1996, all the public service utilities should either become share holding companies
or organized as public-sector industrial and commercial enterprises, and in addition must furnish
the CRAS with a study demonstrating their entrepreneurial viability. The Bank's future operations
will have to be conducted with these new enterprises, once they have been restructured and
adjusted financially and operationally in accordance with guidelines set out by the CRAS.
Key Lessons Learned
xvii.  Significant parts of the institutional strengthening programs (managerial, financial,
administrative and technical) ought to have been implemented up front, as a condition precedent
to approval of the loan, and not as part of it. It should normally be a requirement that the
borrowing entity achieve, prior to signing the loan agreement, a level of viability--managerial,
financial, technical, and administrative--sufficient to guarantee proper management of the project.
Overall, however, the institutional improvement objectives for Cucuta were not realistic and
Ciicuta is a good example of why there has been a change in the Bank's approach in recent years
to the strategy of institutional improvement in the water sector, focusing on promoting private
sector participation.
xviii. In the case of loans to regional or local utility companies, the local political environment
should always be evaluated during project preparation and the evaluation results should be taken
into consideration, so as to ensure, if warranted, incorporation of mechanisms such as up front
institutional adjustments, to insulate them from political intervention,.
xix.   The use of a Fiduciary Agency as a project management unit was successful in that it
liberated the project management from its dependence on EMC and sheltered it from political
intervention and from a lack of continuity of EMC's management. Had it been used from the
outset, project implementation could have been reduced by 2-3 years.
xx.   The size of an approved loan should be in proportion to the company's annual billing
volume and hence its capacity to generate internally sufficient resources to service its debt
obligations. In the present case, a loan of US$18.5 million exceeded EMC's debt-servicing
capacity, and the project should have been implemented in two stages, the first one consisting of
rehabilitation and expansion of the water and sewerage networks, as well as UFW reduction, and
the second consisting of the Zulia river water supply works.



- vii -
xxi.   The completion of the physical works resulted in important benefits, in particular, ensuring
continuous supply to a low-income population of about 250,000 inhabitants (40 % of the city's
population), which prior to project completion, either had no access at all to water supply or
received water under severe rationing conditions. The achieved benefits justified the decision to
extend the closing date of the loan.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2470-CO
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
I.    The Ciucuta water supply and sewerage project had two primary objectives:
(a)   to improve and expand water supply, sewerage and storm drainage services
in the city of Cucuta; and
(b)   to help EMC develop into a strong multi-service municipal company that
could serve as a model for similar companies in other medium-size
Colombian cities.
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.    Achievement of the project objectives was marginally satisfactory even though the
institutional strengthening objective was not achieved. The reason for the marginally
satisfactory rating is that, except for a small component of drainage works, the physical
works provided for by the SAR were fully (close to 100%) executed, the water and
sewerage coverage rates were increased to 90% each, and a new water source (the Zulia
river) and its ancillary supply works, which almost doubled the water supply capacity to
the city, has been brought on stream, benefiting a low-income population of about
250,000 inhabitants (40 % of the city's population), which prior to project completion,
either had no access at all to water supply or received water under severe rationing
conditions. More specifically, the upgrading works and expanding of water supply
(components A and B) and sewerage (component C) systems were almost fully
implemented (100% implementation for components A and B and over 95% for
component C), though well behind the original timetable. Construction of the wastewater
oxidation ponds under component C did not take place, however, due to considerable
underestimation of the construction costs during project preparation as well as due to
conceptual errors in the designs prepared during the initial years of the project; this made
it necessary to replace the execution of the originally proposed works by the preparation
of studies and engineering designs for a wastewater treatment plant. Neither the drainage
canals lining nor the storm-water collector works provided for under part D of the project



- 2 -
were executed. Even though most of the studies proposed in parts E and F were
commissioned and carried out, their recommendations were not implemented, with the
result that the objective of institutional strengthening of EMC and its conversion into a
model utility was not achieved.
3.    Part A: Expansion of the Water Supply System. The works included in
component A are defined in Table 1, which also contains details on the works executed.
Table 1: Implementation of Works Under Component A
Implementation
provided for in
the Loan       Implemented          %
Description           Agreement        as of 06/30/95   Execution
A. EXPANSION OF THE
EXISTING WATER
SUPPLY SYSTEM
- Primary networks            43.0 km            62.4 km            145
- Storage tanks              8,000 m3           9,700 m3            121
- Las Lomas pumping station    120 I/s            120 I/s           100
- Los Benefactores pumping
station                         6 I/s              6 I/s           100
- Secondary networks           120 km             120 km            100
- House connections         10,000 units      10,000+ units         100
- Domestic meters supply and
installation               50,000 units       50,000 units         100
4.    Part B: Zulia River Water Supply System. The initiation of construction of the
new Zulia river water supply system was delayed until 1991 due to EMC's serious
financial problems and consideration was even given to canceling this component. It was
finally decided to go ahead with this Component, which was completed satisfactorily in
January 1996, raising the water supply capacity to the city of Cucuta by 70% and ensuring
adequate supply to the city up to the year 2005, provided the percentage of water losses is
reduced to a lower level of around 35%; if, however, the current UFW level of 42%
remains unchanged, the available supply will barely suffice to meet the current needs.
While it is true that the works were completed more than three years behind schedule,
their impact on the city and on the low-income residential neighborhoods, usually located
in areas of high topographical level, has been so great that it mitigated the negative impact
caused by the delays in execution. The achievement of this physical goal justified the
decision to extend the closing date of the loan. Canceling the loan on the original closing
date would have: (a) subjected the city's low-income residents to further years of water



-3 -
rationing, since EMC would have had great difficulty in obtaining new loans to complete
the works; and (b) deprived EMC from the prospect of increasing its revenues and
improving its financial situation, leaving it with uncompleted works after having invested
US$ 11 million (actual disbursement on original closing date). The works executed under
part B of the project are summarized in Table 2.
Table 2: Implementation of Works Under Component B
Implementation
provided for in   Implementation
Descriptin .the Loan                    as of 06/30/95    Execution
Description            Agreement
B. ZULIA WATER SUPPLY
SYSTEM
- 48" pipe connecting the intake
to the raw water pump station     0.45 km           0.45 km            100
- Raw water pumping station
(Termotasajero)                   1.0 m3/s          1.0 m3/s          100
- 36" pipe connecting the raw
water pumping station to the
pressure break structure           1.5 km            1.5 km            100
- 39" pipe connecteng the
pressure break structure
to Dofia Nidia treatment plant     15.0 km          15.0 anm           100
- Dofia Nidia treatment plant        1.0 m3/s        1.0 m3/s           100
- Treated water pumping
station at Dofia Nidia             1.0 m3/s         1.0 m3/s          100
- Loma de Bolivar pumping
station                            0.3 m3/s          0                  0
- Storage tanks:
* Antonia Santos                  3200 m3         3200 m3             100
* Loma de Bolivar Bajo            2000 m3           0                   0
* Loma de Bolivar Alto            2700 m3           0                   0
5.    The Loma de Bolivar Bajo and Loma de Bolivar Alto tanks and the corresponding
pumping stations, which are essential to supply the neighborhoods of Los Alpes, Victoria
and Belen, were not constructed due to lack of resources. These investments amount to
less than US$ 1 million, and EMC will most probably complete these works, by utilizing
its own resources, when they become available.



-4 -
6.    Part C: Sewerage Works. The works under part C were partially executed, as
specified in Table 3.
Table 3: Implementation of Works Under Component C
Implementation
provided for in
the Loan       Implemented        %
Description             Agreement       as of 06/30/95   Execution
C. SEWERAGE SYSTEM
- Primary collectors              11.0 km           10.2 km             90
- Secondary networks             100.0 km         124.72 km            125
- House connections              8200 units         6636 units          81
- Construction of the wastewater
treatment plant                  1.0 m3/s       Design Only*            0
* Design has been completed in April 1966.
7.    The scheduled works, except for construction of the wastewater treatment plant,
were almost fully executed, with small differences in relation to the preliminary estimates,
resulting from adjustments made after completion of detailed design.
8.    The construction of the wastewater treatment plant was originally included in the
project to recover the water quality in the Pamplonita river to which the Cuicuta
wastewater is discharged and to prevent deterioration of the water quality in the Zulia
river to which the Pamplonita river discharges and which flows into Venezuelan territory.
The upgrading of the water quality in the rivers downstream of Culcuta was supposed to
benefit communities living next to the rivers and to ensure that Venezuela's reparian rights
on the Zulia river would not be adversely affected. Before signing the Loan Agreement,
the Bank had sent the Executive Director representing Venezuela a letter of commitment
to construct, as part of the project, a wastewater treatment plant which would ensure that
no incremental pollution would reach Venezuelan territory as a result of implementation of
the project.
9.    During project preparation, EMC requested the local consulting firm which was
preparing the sewerage master plan, to draw up a preliminary report on alternative
wastewater treatment systems, including their location and preliminary cost estimates. An
oxidation ponds treatment plant was recommended as the most appropriate alternative but
its cost was considerably underestimated. As a result, an unrealistically low budget was
allocated for construction of the treatment plant. In July 1985, while initiating the
supervision of the project, the Bank suggested that additional studies be carried out for
site verification and revision of the preliminary cost estimates. At the beginning of 1986,



- 5 -
EMC hired a foreign consulting firm to perform the corresponding feasibility studies,
utilizing Bank financing. The consultants recommended an oxidation ponds treatment
system and selected a site which involved the construction of a 10 km
collector/interceptor. As a result of this feasibility study, the estimated cost amounted to
US$7.5 million (compared to the original estimate of US$1.3 million), a figure that
exceeded EMC's financing capacity. With the advice of the consulting firm which carried
out the feasibility study and the local consulting firm which was in charge of supervising
the works, EMC proposed to the Bank that the design criteria be revised to reduce
treatment capacity from the original value of 1.0 m3/s to 0.30 m3/s. It also committed to
carry out simultaneously a program for control of industrial wastes discharges and
permanent monitoring of water quality, the effect of which would be to reduce the adverse
impact on the quality of the water of the Zulia river within the territorial borders of
Venezuela.
10.   EMC awarded the contract for final design of the 0.3 m3/s treatment plant to the
same consulting firm which carried out the feasibility study, and in 1991 acquired the land
required for construction of the treatment plant. In July 1992, however, EMC requested
the Bank (in its fax of July 28, 1992) to postpone the initiation of the bidding process for
construction of the treatment plant because it had found serious shortcomings in the
structural designs and cost estimates and had reservations about the concept of phased
development of the project with the initial phase treating only 0.3 m3/s. As a consequence
of these concerns, the Bank carried out a further review from which it concluded that, in
addition to EMC's observations, the selected treatment plant site was not suitable for an
oxidation ponds plant since it was located within the city limits and an environmental
impact study of the proposed plant had not been carried out (aide-memoire of September
24, 1992).
11.   In September 1992, EMC, DNP and the Bank jointly agreed to carry out a new
study to find a suitable solution to Cucuta's sewage treatment problem; this led to
amendment of the description of part C of the loan agreement (loan agreement amendment
of May 24, 1993), which reflects a modification in the Bank's approach, accepting that,
because of budget constraints, the treatment plant could not be constructed under the
project and would have to be constructed at a later stage', but ensuring the completion of
its detailed design in the framework of the project. The modification of the Bank's
approach was communicated to the Executive Director representing Venezuela on March
1, 1993. The extension period of the loan closing date was granted to allow for the
completion of the wastewater treatment plant detailed design.
12.   In December 1993, EMC awarded a consortium of a foreign and a local consulting
firms a contract to carry out a feasibility study for treatment of the entire flow of the
wastewater of Cuicuta, with a first stage plant capacity of 1.0 m3/s, as originally envisaged
during project preparation. The consultants completed this study in August 1994. In
The Colombian Govermnent has committed, in DNP letter UDU-DEM No. 8955 dated February 3, 1993, to condruct a watowader
treatment plant which would be economically, financially, institutionally and environmentally viable. Moreover, the Bank informed
the Executive Director representing Venezuela, in March 1, 1993 that it was willing to finance the treatent plant



- 6 -
February 1995, following a call for bids among prequalified bidders, EMC awarded the
contract for detailed design of the treatment plant to the same consortium that had
prepared the feasibility studies. The final design report was completed in April 1996. The
final design, which is based on compliance with Colombian Decree 1594 of 1984, related
to discharge of treated wastewater to receiving water bodies (which requires 80% removal
of: (a) organic matter expressed as Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD); and (b)
suspended solids, from municipal wastewater prior to its discharge into a river), provides
for the construction of a first phase plant for a capacity of 1.25 m3/s, consisting of a train
of ponds which include: (i) anaerobic ponds; (ii) recirculated facultative ponds; and (iii)
maturation ponds. The second and third stage are identical, each with a capacity of 0.625
m3/s, consisting of anaerobic ponds followed by biological filters with secondary
sedimentation tanks. The cost of construction of the first phase plant is estimated at
US$18.5 million and that of the associated main collectors US$20.5 million, amounting to
a total cost of US$39.0 million for wastewater treatment, as compared to an estimate of
US$1.3 million ten years earlier.
13.   The Pamplonita river flows 55 km downstream of Cujcuta in a remote, isolated and
uninhabited border zone within the territory of Colombia, before it discharges into the
Zulia river. The flow of the Zulia river is over 10 times bigger than that of the Pamplonita,
with the result of: (a) considerable self purification of the water during its flow in the
Pamplonita river; and (b) high dilution of the Pamplonita river water before it reaches the
Venezuelan border after several additional kilometers of flow of the Zulia river. The
feasibility study carried out in 1994, found that the self purification which takes place in
the Pamplonita river before it flows into the Zulia river is significant. Consequently, for
complying with the requirement of preventing an incremental contamination of the Zulia
river within the Venezuelan territory in the medium term (up to the year 2005), not even a
minimal treatment is required (while in order to maintain satisfactory conditions in terms
of BOD and Dissolved Oxygen (DO) in the Pamplonita river, only a minimum - primary
level - treatment is required). This conclusion of the report casts serious doubts about the
basis for the SAR concern in regard to the need for preventing an incremental pollution
from reaching Venezuelan territory, and the resulting approach of the necessity to treat the
expected incremental 1 m3/s of wastewater. From this new information it seems
reasonable to conclude that the modification in the Bank's approach in early 1993, which
resulted in postponing the construction of the treatment plant, would not have resulted,
therefore, in adverse environmental effects in Venezuelan territory in the medium term. It
follows that the willingness of the Bank to finance the treatment plant should be revisited.
14.   In conclusion, the detailed design of an appropriate wastewater treatment plant
with a capacity for: (a) maintaining the quality of the Pamplonita river water within
Colombian river quality standards; and (b) preventing future contamination of the Zulia
river water in the long run, is now complete and available to the decision makers of
Cuicuta, providing them with accurate data on which to base the decision to construct the
plant, and enabling them to: (a) assess its financial viability in light of current commitments
and the new ones stenmming from the wastewater treatment plant project; and (b) negotiate
with the National Government its participation in financing the treatment plant.



- 7 -
15.   Part D: Storm Water Drainage. In agreement with the Bank, this project
component was not executed due to EMC's lack of resources. This is a small component,
involving an investment of US$ 1.4 million and EMC may complete it using its own
resources, when they become available. The works of component D provided for in the
loan agreement are defined in Table 4.
Table 4: Works Under Component D of the Project
Implementation
provided for in
the Loan       Implemented          %
Description            Agreement       as of 06/30/95    Execution
D. STORM WATER
DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
- Storm water drainage
collectors                    5.0 km               0               0
- Relining of Bogota canal     13.0 km              0                0
16.   Part E: Institutional Strengthening. A number of studies and advisory
assistance services were contracted under this project component. The following is a
description of these studies and their impact on EMC:
*  Preparation of a management control information system. The study was
carried out but the developed system was not put into operation due to
difficulties EMC had in being able to use it;
*  Study of the reorganization of EMC, revaluation of assets and actuarial
calculation of pension obligations. This study was not completed satisfactorily
because of the inexperience of the selected consulting firm and the lack of
commitment of EMC's management to implement institutional improvements;
*  Study of improvement of operational practices and UFW control. This study
was carried out only partially and with a substantial delay. As a result of the
suspension of disbursements the study was interrupted, and was not renewed
when the suspension was lifted because of the slow response of the consultant.
Consequently, the network simulation and telemetry portion of the study was
not executed at all and the implementation of the study's recommendations
was very limited. The UFW index continues to be very high (42%), a fact that
clearly demonstrates a continuing need for implementing the consultant's
recommendations;



- 8 -
* Vehicles and laboratory equipment were acquired, and training of various
officials and professional in Colombia and abroad was financed.
17.   Although the aforementioned studies and advisory services were carried out in
part, the goal of institutional strengthening of EMC was never achieved due to lack of
political commitment and too frequent changes of management. The concept of achieving
better performance of an ailing public utility by attempting to implement the institutional
improvement program proposed in the Cucuta project proved to be unrealistic; even if
additional efforts had been invested in implementing that program prior to suspension of
disbursements, it is very doubtful that the expected institutional improvement would have
been achieved. Cucuta is a good example of why there has been a change in the Bank's
approach towards institutional improvement, which is now directed to promoting private
sector participation as a means for such improvement. Two attempts to bring about
significant institutional reform were in fact carried out after the suspension was lifted in
1992. These reforms were not part of the original institutional strengthening program and
were based on newer concepts, including in one case the concept of private sector
participation The first one took place in 1992 and was aimed at liquidating EMC and
creating a new company with private sector participation which would take over the
responsibility for providing the water supply, sewerage and solid wastes services in
Cucuta. The concept was based on the process which was undertaken in Barranquilla,
i.e., creating a mixed capital company with a minority of private share holders who would
have the control of the company in the Board of Directors and would eliminate the
Mayor's and Municipal Council's control of the board and help insulate the company from
political intervention. A mixed capital company, "Metroservicios", was constituted but
the private sector of Cucuta showed no interest in purchasing its shares and the effort
failed. One possible reason for the unwillingness of the private sector to participate is the
location of Cucuta in a guerrilla activity zone and the fear of the guerrilla reaction. Private
sector participation requires stability and is not expected to be achieved in unstable
guerrilla controled areas. The second attempt at institutional reform took place in
1993/94 by creating the "SAAC" (Sociedad de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Cucuta), an
association between several public entities including the Municipality, the "Area
Metroplolitana", the Local Government of the Department of Norte de Santander and the
local power company, which was formed to take over responsibility for providing the
water supply and sewerage services and was not controlled by the Mayor. The
consolidation of "SAAC" and the preparations for transfer of responsibility were
supported by the Bank but lack of political commitment of the Municipality and of EMC's
management, as well as the objection of EMC's labor union, the transfer of responsibility
for the services never took place. After the closing of the loan, "SAAC" was liquidated.
18.   Part F: Studies. The feasibility ,tudy for integrating municipal public services in
the metropolitan area of Cuicuta was not carried out. Supervision of the civil engineering
works and the designs of the wastewater treatment plant were carried out under this part
of the project.



- 9 -
3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
19.   Implementation of the project was hampered by a number of factors. These can be
grouped into five categories:
(a)   The political climate in the city. The individual interests of local political
leaders, who changed every two years, i.e five times during the
implementation period, took precedence over: (i) the provision of basic
services to the city's population; (ii) the interests of EMC; and (iii) the
goal of providing an efficient and high quality service to the consumers.
There was a continuous interference by local politicians in EMC's day-to-
day management, constant pressures to meet bureaucratic requests and an
unwillingness to approve adequate tariff levels. The most pronounced
adverse effect of the political interference was the resulting lack of
managerial autonomy in EMC and the frequent management changes that
ensued.
(b)   EMC's institutional instability and lack of managerial autonomy. The
institutional instability of EMC and its financial weakness caused delays,
failure to take timely decisions and project implementation problems. As a
result of the political interference and the lack of managerial autonomy, the
frequency of replacement of the general manager and EMC's senior staff
was extremely high. During the project execution period (1984-1995) 11
general managers were officially appointed and a number of others were
appointed as acting managers for short periods; on average, each
administration lasted a year. The project suffered greatly from the constant
changes in EMC's general manager and in key personnel. The necessary
continuity of management and of operational staff with adequate technical
competence to maintain EMC's technical, operational and institutional
memory was lacking.
(c)   EMC's financial weakness. The chronic financial problems of EMC are
apparent from the Bank's supervision reports and the analyses of the
available audit reports (1986-94). EMC experienced operating losses in
the years 1986, 1991, 1992 and 1993 and annual losses in 1986, 1987,
1988, 1991 and 1992. EMC's financial deficits are attributable to high
administrative and operating costs, the hiring of unnecessary personnel as a
result of political interference, and the combined effect of a very high UFW
percentage and lack of political decision to raise tariffs to the necessary
levels during a number of years. These problems were aggravated by a
strong labor union and a burdensome collective labor agreement. The cost
of the social benefits of EMC's personnel is equal to 140% of their salary,
in contrast to the 56% value that private enterprises in Colombia usually
have to pay.



- 10-
(d)   The lack of clear and consistent criteria on the part of EMC and the
Bank in regard to the design of the wastewater treatment plant.
During appraisal the cost of the treatment plant was considerably
underestimated and consequently, an unrealistically low budget was
allocated for its construction. This led to changes in the conceptual basis
of the plant design and its capacity was altered and adjusted during the
course of the project, in light of availability of funds, without any clear and
persuasive technical justification. The unsatisfactory performance of the
consultants initially hired by EMC to conduct the studies and design of the
plant further hampered the project.
(e)   Suspension of disbursements for a period of 15 months. On December
28, 1990, as a consequence of a prolonged failure to comply with the
conditions of the loan agreement, which was a result of EMC's weak
institutional, managerial and financial capacity, the Bank suspended
disbursements. The specific reasons for suspension of disbursements were:
(i) frequent changes in management and in the professional team; (ii)
inefficient performance coupled with transfers of the cost of inefficiencies
to the customers through increasing tariffs and then offsetting the resulting
revenues by hiring unnecessary employees; (iii) noncompliance with major
financial covenants, in particular, the rate of return covenant, and not
covering the cost of the market service but rather subsidizing it from the
revenues of the water service; (iv) shortage of counterpart funds; (v) delays
in implementation of the physical works; and (vi) failure to meet
commitments concerning the wastewater treatment plant. The suspension
was lifted in March 1992, following a period of intensive supervision by the
Bank, effective participation by the National Government through DNP,
corrective actions taken by EMC so as to comply with the Bank's
conditions, and constitution of an external project management unit under a
contract with a Fiduciary Agency. The corrective actions taken by Cucuta
which led to the suspension being lifted were: (i) authorization by the
Cucuta Municipal Council to liquidate EMC and create a new company
with private sector participation for provision of the services of water
supply, sewerage and solid wastes; (ii) agreement to implement a voluntary
staff separation program to reduce personnel costs; (iii) formulating a
financing plan involving funds from different sources including, National
Government grant using funds administered by FINDETER, ear-marked
VAT and betterment levies revenues of the Municipality, grants from the
Local Government of the Departamento de Norte de Santander and short
term loans; (iv) contracting a Fiduciary Agency to execute the project and
manage the project funds; and (v) approval of a tariff increase of 20%.
20.   The appointment of a Fiduciary Agency, which acted as the project management
unit, operating in practice, though not officially, independently of EMC's management,
had an obvious positive impact on the project. The successful completion of the Zulia
river water supply works, the component that will probably yield the greatest benefit for



- 11 -
the city of Cucuta, can be attributed to this project management arrangement. The
Fiduciary Agency managed to execute 30% of the project works during 1994 and to
realize in that year disbursements of close to US$ 5 million, equivalent to 27% of the loan
amount and to 2.5 times the largest disbursement carried out in earlier project years.
4. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.   Despite the achievement of implementing the Zulia river water supply works, the
project's sustainability is in doubt due to: (i) interference by local politicians in the
management of EMC and lack of managerial autonomy of the company; (ii) the resulting
frequent changes of management; (iii) lack of continuity of qualified personnel in key
positions; and (iv) shortcomings in EMC's operational and administrative procedures.
Project sustainability will depend basically on the commitment that local leaders and
politicians (Government, Senators, Mayor's Office, Municipal Council, Board of
Directors, labor unions and civic leaders) are prepared to make in order to tackle the
problems affecting EMC as well as on continuous monitoring and strict control on the part
of the new supervisory entities (the CRAS and the SSPD) set up recently by Law 142,
with respect to actions aimed at:
*  Facilitating the adoption of an appropriate institutional structure which would
protect EMC from interference by local politicians and the heavy burden
imposed by the current collective labor agreement;
=  Supporting EMC in achieving efficiency and effectiveness, and monitoring its
operational, commercial, administrative and financial performance, as well as
the quality, reliability and continuity in service delivery;
v  approving periodic tariff adjustments which will enable EMC to finance its: (i)
operating costs; (ii) maintenance costs; (iii) equipment renewal costs; (iv)
necessary investments to maintain service coverage; (v) actuarial pension costs;
(vi) debt-service obligations; and (vii) earn an acceptable return on its fixed
assets.
22.   Within the management of the company, operational sustainability of the project
will depend on continuous monitoring of the basic performance indicators and on the
efficient management of EMC's technical, human and financial resources, placing the
achievement of EMC institutional objectives above political interests; in particular
sustainability will depend on the:
* urgent implementation of the UFW contitol program to reduce losses to around
25 percent;



- 12 -
*  implementation of an institutional, technical and financial strengthening
program which would include appointing of qualified key technical,
administrative and operational personnel;
*  implementation of a financial rehabilitation of the company in terms of tariff
adjustment and control of UFW, which is a basic requirement to enable EMC
to meet its operational, system expansion and debt-service costs and cease to
be a heavy burden on its loan guarantor, the Government of Colombia.
5. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   The identification, preparation and appraisal of the project by the Bank was based
on its previous knowledge of the water sector in Colombia, in which it had already carried
out nine lending operations, with INSFOPAL, EAAB and the municipalities of Cali,
Palmira and Barranquilla. In response to the negative experience with INSFOPAL, the
Bank changed its strategy for the water supply and sanitation sector in Colombia,
concluding that multi-city lending was not feasible and that direct lending to the larger
municipal utility companies, with careful prior selection, would be preferable in future.
24.   The SAR pinpointed the major needs to expand the conveyance and distribution
networks, raise water treatment capacity and storage volumes as well as to expand the
sewerage system.
25.   The main risks identified in the SAR were the institutional and financial
weaknesses, particularly those attributable to the attitude of central and local authorities to
timely implementation of the required tariff increases. This did in fact transpire over most
of the project implementation period, confirming the SAR's risk assessment. Interference
by local politicians in project management and in the internal management of EMC, a
situation that clearly had a very unfavorable impact on the project by weakening EMC's
managerial and administrative capability, was not deemed to represent a risk.
26.   A total of 20 supervision missions were carried out during the 10 year
implementation period, utilizing 202.8 person-weeks. Both the back-to-office reports and
the project archives allow easy tracking of project implementation, the problems
encountered, monitoring of compliance with legal commitments and the plans of action
agreed upon.
27.   Management of the wastewater treatment plant construction program was not
always satisfactory. During appraisal, the cost of the treatment plant was considerably
underestimated and consequently, an unrealistically low budget was allocated for its
construction. This budget constraint was a major cause of the problems and confusion
related to the treatment plant component and the reason for eventually not constructing
the plant. The changes in the conceptual plant design and the unsatisfactory performance
of the consultants initially hired by EMC utilizing loan proceeds, resulted in a cumulative
delay of seven years for completion of design. During the last three years of the project



- 13 -
implementation (1993-1995), however, the wastewater treatement plant design was put
back on course, and the studies and designs as finally executed, following amendment of
the loan agreement, are appropriate and complete. The final design will provide EMC
with accurate data on which to base the decision to construct the plant, enable it to assess
the plant's financial viability in light of current commitments and the new ones stemming
from the wastewater treatment project, and to negotiate with the National Government its
participation in its financing the treatment plant.
28.   In general, it is advisable to cancel a loan promptly after the Bank becomes
convinced that the borrower is not in a position to honor its commitments with respect to
the proposed works and physical targets, repeatedly fails to comply with the conditions
and legal commitments of the loan, or fails to take institutional decisions that ensure the
project's fuiture sustainability. In this case, the tolerant attitude taken by the Bank
undoubtedly enabled EMC to complete the Zulia river water supply works, a component
essential in providing water to Cuicuta's lower-income population. Had the loan closing
date not been extended, the city's population, especially its lower-income residents, would
have been subjected to many more years of water rationing. However, it was not
successful in resolving EMC's institutional crisis, despite the correction actions taken
(Paragraph 19 (e)) as a condition of lifting the suspension.
29.   The size of the Bank loan-which was made directly to EMC with the guarantee of
the Government-was probably too big for EMC in view of its weak financing capacity and
limited creditworthiness. It was approved on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions,
and as a result of change of sector strategy from multi-city lending through INSFOPAL to
direct lending on a selective basis to the larger municipal utility companies, with EMC
being the first of these companies. It is most likely that the National Government, as
guarantor, will eventually have to assume responsibility for repaying the debt to the Bank
and FINDETER.
6. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   The institutional weakness of the borrower (EMC), the continued interference by
local politicians in its administration, and the resulting instability of its key personnel
prevented achieving one of the main project objectives,i.e. that of converting EMC into a
model enterprise.
31.   EMC's inadequate financing capacity, combined with its inability to reduce the
UFW percentage and the lack of political will to raise water tariffs and dismiss
unnecessary personnel, forced the guarantor (the Government of Colombia) to assume
responsibility for repayment of the loan obligations, with one exception, when EMC made
a repayment in the second half of 1995.
32.   Serious local political interference and the weakness of EMC's managerial capacity
compelled the National Government to require that the project management be entrusted
to a Fiduciary Agency, independent of EMC and relatively free from local and regional
political pressures and interference.



- 14 -
33.   The National Government, particularly DNP and to a certain extent FINDETER,
provided continuous support to the project and contributed to resolution of the problems
that arose during project implementation, but was not effective in imposing institutional
improvements of EMC. It also undertook a radical institutional reform by enacting Law
142 in July 1994, which created an appropriate framework for the efficient operation of
water supply and sewerage utilities in the future. However, the enforcement of this Law
and the regulation of the water sector has not yet reached full effectiveness, and the
success of the reform still depends on the decisiveness and effectiveness in enforcing this
Law in the future.
7. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   Overall, the project results can be regarded as marginally satisfactory.
Implementation of the water supply networks expansion works, the new Zulia river water
supply system, the sewerage works and the design of the wastewater treatment plant was
accomplished satisfactorily, though behind schedule. The storm water drainage expansion
works were not carried out because of lack of funds; however, this was a minor
component of the overall project works. The main impact of the new water supply works
is that from now on, the lower-income population, accounting for 40% of the city's
residents, will enjoy continuous water supply, while prior to project completion this
population either had no access at all to water supply or received water once every 15
days.
35.   Not all the scheduled institutional strengthening programs and studies were carried
out. Those that were have either not been completed satisfactorily, or their
recommendations were not implemented by EMC. In essence, there was no real
commitment on the part of EMC's owner, the Municipality of Cucuta, nor on part of
EMC's management to the institutional strengthening programs.
36.   EMC's calculation of the economic internal rate of return (IRR) of the project,
based on project costs and projected marginal income generated over the next 30 years,
assuming that the current tariffs (0.193 US$/m3 for water and an additional 50% for
sewerage) remain unchanged in US$ terms and that UFW losses are reduced to 35%,
yielded an IRR of 0.08%, which is clearly unsatisfactory. Analysis of the sensitivity of the
IRR to changes in the UFW percentage, assuming a tariff increase of 40%, yields the
results presented in Table 5. The IRR value estimated at appraisal was 12%.



- 15 -
Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis of IRR to UFW and Tariff Levels
IRR
UFW
I        ~(%)                                (/)
Average Tariff          Average Tariff
Maintained in Current     Increased by 40%
Value
42                     -2.73                    6.57
35                      0. 08                   9.60
30                      2.62                   11.78
25                      4.43                   13.72
37.   This analysis indicates that the project could have been economically satisfactory,
if EMC had implemented a strict action plan to reduce UFW and had adjusted the water
tariffs.
8. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   In 1994, in light of the water supply sector's serious institutional problems and the
failure of the existing public utility model in Colombia (including water supply and
sewerage utilities) as a result of chronic financial crises, poor planning capacity,
management shortcomings, service coverage deficiencies and other factors, the
Government enacted Law 142 for regulating the domestic public services. The Law
assigned institutional responsibility for the water supply and sanitation sector to the
Ministry of Development, which set up a Vice Ministry of Water Supply and Sanitation.
It also created a Water and Sanitation Regulatory Commission (CRAS), responsible for
promoting competition among service providers, controlling monopolies, approving tariffs
and laying down the technical standards to be applied by utility companies. It also created
a Domestic Public Services Superintendency (SSPD), responsible for overseeing the utility
enterprises and their financial, technical and administrative management and ensuring that
central government, departmental and municipal subsidies are used in the way prescribed
in the regulations. Although implementation of the reform has barely begun, the situation
of the sector and its enterprises is expected to steadily improve in the medium term.
39.   Law 142 provides that, effective July 1996, all utility enterprises be transformed
into either share holding companies or organized as public-sector industrial and
commercial enterprises; in addition, each of them must furnish the CRAS with a study
demonstrating their entrepreneurial viability. The Bank's future operations will have to be
conducted with these new enterprises, once they have been restructured and adjusted
financially and operationally in accordance with guidelines set forth by the CRAS.



- 16-
40.   Participation of the private sector in the provision of water and sewerage services
through various models of association with the new enterprises created under Law 142, is
undoubtedly the route that will be adopted by many enterprises. This has already occurred
in the case of the water company of Cartagena. Support for such initiatives, which will
help to improve operational efficiency of water companies, represents a possible area of
interest for the future Bank operations.
9. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   The Need for a New Approach for Institutional Reform. In general, the initial
steps of any institutional strengthening programs (managerial, financial, administrative and
technical) ought to be implemented, at least in part, up front, as a condition precedent to
approval of the loan, and not as part of it. It should normally be a requirement that the
borrowing entity demostrate prior to signing the loan agreement, a minimum level of
viability--managerial, financial, technical, and administrative--sufficient to guarantee
proper management of the project. The institutional improvement objectives of the
Cucuta project were not realistic and Ciucuta is a good example why there has been a
change in recent years in the Bank's overall approach to institutional improvement in the
water sector, focusing on promoting private sector participation.
42.   Evualuation of Local Political Environment. In the case of loans to regional or
local utility companies, the local political environment should always be evaluated during
project preparation and the evaluation results should be taken into consideration, so as to
ensure, if warranted, incorporation of mechanisms which will prevent political
intervention, such as requiring up front institutional adjustments.
43.   Use of a Fiduciary Agent in Project Implementation. The use of a Fiduciary
Agency as a project management unit (which took place following lifting of the
suspension) was successful in that it liberated the project management from its dependence
in EMC and sheltered it from political intervention and from lack of continuity of EMC's
management in latter part of project implementation. Had it been used from the outset,
project implementation could have been reduced by as much as 2-3 years.
44.   Need for Adequate Determination of the Size of the Loan. The size of an
approved loan should be in proportion to the company's annual billing volume and hence
its capacity to generate internally sufficient resources to service its debt obligations. In the
present case, a loan of US$18.5 million exceeded EMC's debt-servicing capacity, and the
project should have been implemented in two stages, the first one consisting of
rehabilitation and expansion of the water and sewerage networks, as well as UFW
reduction, and the second consisting of the Zulia river water supply works.
45.   Importance of Completion of the Physical Works. The extension of the closing
date, which allowed completing the works, resulted in: (a) increasing water supply to the
city by 70%; (b) achieving water and sewerage coverage rates of 90% each; (c) ensuring
continuous water supply to a low-income population of about 250,000 inhabitants (40 %
of the city's population), which prior to project completion, either had no access at all to



- 17-
water supply or received water under severe rationing conditions; and (d) improving
significantly the financial situation of EMC. Canceling the loan on the original closing
date would have: (a) subjected the city's low-income residents to further years of water
rationing, since EMC would have had great difficulty in obtaining new loans to complete
the works; and (b) deprived EMC from the prospect of increasing its revenues and
improving its financial situation, leaving it with uncompleted works after having invested
US$ 11 million (actual disbursement on original closing date).



- 18 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A     Achievement of Objectives           '     Substantial              Partial               Negligible      ,  Not applicable
Macroeconomnic policies
Sector policies                                                                              x
Fiancial objectives                                                   a
Instiutional development                                                                     x
Physical objxctives                            x
Poverty reduction
Gender concenns
Other social objectives
Environntntal objectives
Public sector rnanagentent                               .x
Private sector development                                                                   x
Other (specify)
B.   Project Sustainability                            Likely                         Unlikely                     Uncertain
Highly
C.   Bank Performance                               Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
Highly
D.   Borrower Performaance                          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                Deflcient
Preparation
hIplemnentation
Covenant conpliance                                                                                           x
Operation (if appliable)                                                                                     7
-   --  -- --Highly         Marginally                                     Highly
E     Assessment of Outcome                     Satisfadory           Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
.~~~~~~~~E .l .  j.



- 19-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan                 Purpose                Year of          Status
l_______________________________    approval
Preceding Operations
1072-CO   Sec ond Multi-City Water Supply and   1975      Completed in 1982
Sewerage project
1967-CO   Barranquilla Water Supply Project     1985       Canceled in Nov.
1991
2512-CO   Fourth Bogota Water Supply and        1985      Loan Closing -April
1993
Sewerage Project.                              Project Completion
Report,June 28, 1994
Following Operations
2961-CO   Colombia Water and Sewerage           1988       Loan closing date
Sector Project                                     31-Dec-96
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle         Date planned       Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                 Sep-83                  11-Jul-83
Appraisal                                  Nov-84                  14-Aug-84
Negotiations                                                       8-May-84
Board presentation                                                 11-Sep-84
Signing                                                            21 -Sep-84
Effectiveness                                                      30-Apr-85
Project completion                            30-Dec-91            31-Dec-95
Loan closing                                  30-Jun-92            30-Jun-95



- 20 -
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
_____ _____ _   ___ __  __ ____ (US$   Thousands) _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _  _ _ __  _ _ _
FY              85     86      87      88     89[g0           91     92      93   94  1 95
Appraisal Estimnate        1.6    4.4    8.3   13.3j   16.7   17.7j  18.2   18.5   18.5   18.51  18-5
:Actual                    1.05.   3.05    5.17   6.77   886  1054i 11;55  12899  13.11   18.02  18.13
Actual as % Estimate    65.625  69.318 62.289 50.902| 53 054 59.548i 63 462 69.676i 70.865 97.405  98.00
Date of final disburs.                    July 6, 1995
1-- -                                        0-                                          =Estimated
2                                                                                      DReal
2      3       4      5       6      7       8       9      10      11



- 21 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. Key implementation
indicators in SAR                      Estimated          Actual
President's Report                       (1992)            (1992)
Financial Tar2ets
Average Water tariff (US$/m3)                               0.24 (1)         0. 18
Rate of return                                               6.9             -1.47
(1) Calculated, based on average water tariff estimated in SAR in current Colombian peso
and the SAR estimated exchange rate for 1992
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
1. Key operating indicators in   ESTIMATED                      ACTUAL
SAR/ President's Report                                                            l
(1992)              (1992)           (1995)
OPERATIONS
I-Water produced (m3 million)          42.2                50.8            38.0 *
1-Water sold (m3 million)              31.2                31.6            21.2 *
2-Water unaccounted for (%)            26.0                38.3            44.1 *
3.-Water connections (1992)          72,200.0            81,622.0          100,321
4.Sewerage connections               60,800.0            77,041.0          89,878
5-Water coverage (% Pop. served)       80.0                                 90.3
PERSONNEL
Employees/1000 water connections       6.0                                  4.70
* Up to September 1995



- 22 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                           Purpose as deflned                 status             Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined                          I
1. Administration and Management    Strengthening Administration and Management  Executed     Recommendations partially
through introduction of appropriate MIS systems.            implemented with minor
positive inpact
2. Operation and Maintenance      Implement more efficient practices and systems  Partially Executed  Recommendations partially
implemented with minor
positive impact
3. Control of water unaccounted for    Strengthen EMC capabilities in reducing  Partially Executed  Recommendations partially
unaccounted for water                                      implemented with minor
positive impact
4. Integration of Municipal services    Improvement of service quality      Not executed
in the Cucuta "Metropolitan Area".
5. Project Administration and     Planning, review of design and supervision of    Executed   Very positive
Supervision of construction     Construction
6. Design of wastewater           Preparation of funal designs, cost estimates  Executed after
treatment plant                 and bidding documents                     many problems
and
substantial
delays



- 23 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Item                               Appraisal                          Actual /Latest Estim.
Estimate                                    US$M
US$M
Local      Foreign                   Local         Foreign
Costs       Costs        Total       costs          Costs            Total
CAT. 1- EQUIPMENT&            3.75         7.86        1161          6.9           9.54            16.44
MATERIALS
CAT.-2- CIVIL WORKS           8.77         2.88        11 65        10.85          3.75             14.6
CAT.3 -CONSULTANTS'            1.26        0.16         1 .42       1 .48          1.12             2.6
SERVICES
3A- GEN. PROJ.            0            0           0            0             0.11            0.11
SERVICES
3B- DESIGN                0            0            0          1.85           1.38            3.23
WASTEWATER
CAT.4- TRAING &               0.45         0.31         0.76        0.12           0.18             0.3
SCHOLARSHIPS
CAT.5- INTEREST & OTHER        1.86        3.19         5.05        0.49            2               2.49
CHARGES.
CAT. 6- INITIAL DEPOSIT         0            0           0           0              0                0
CAT. 7-FEE                      0          0.05         0.05         0             0.05             0.05
CAT. UNALLOCATED              3.31         4.05         7.36         0              0                0
RICE CONTINGENCIES)
TOTAL                          19.4         18.5        37.9        21.69          18.13           39.82
1=            .               _-            -



- 24 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/latest estimate
Foregin    Local      Total    Foregin    Local
Financing Source    Costs    Costs      Costs      costs      Costs       Total
IBRD/IDA             18.50     0.00       18.50      18.12      0.00       18.12
EMC Internal cash              8.30       8.30                  4.96        4.96
generation                             _____
G o v e r n m e n t            6.90       6.90                 13.20       13.20
Local Loan                     4.20       4.20                  3.53        3.53
Total                18.50     19.40      37.90     18.12      21.69       39.81
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
EIRR
UFW
Average Tariff              Average Tariff
Maintained in Current          Increased by 40%
Value
42                      -2.73                         6.57
35                       0.08                         9.60
30                       2.62                        11.78
25                       4.43                        13.72



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
1  1       1          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Revwise-t
A&reement        Secton       Covenant   Swtus         Onginal        Fulfl ment 4                    Descnption of covenant                 |               Comments
_________ :__Ape               ._   fus4fiilment date       date     |                                                            _
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
2.02 (a) and (b)   2                                                   The Government to provide Col$800 million, towards project    Government contributions are expected
financing and agree to make arrangements for meeting      due to cost overrun (in pesos costs)
.__________   ____________   ________   _______  _____________   _______ _  inadequate   financingequate_financing
LOAN AGREEMENT
2.02 (c)        I           C                                          EMC to open and satisfactorily maintain a Special Account.
3.02            5           C                                          EMC to appoint Consultants on terms and conditions        Appointment of Consultants in certain
satisfactory to the Bank.                                 areas (unaccounted for water reduction
study, for example) has not been timely
however.
3.05            5           CD                                         EMC shall not later than June 30, 1993 hire the consultant  The feasibility study for the Cucuta
services for preparation of the feasibility study and, if  wasewater treatment plant has not yet
applicable and warranted, for the detailed design of the  started and considering the present state
wastewater treatment plant, both under part C of the Project,  of the hiring process, the work would
and shall by, not later than February 2S, 1994 and December    start, at best, only towards end January
31, 1994, furnish to the Bank final findings and           1994, with a seven month dely in regard   F'
recommendations of the feasibility and the detailed design  to the date agreed upon in the
respectively.                                             amendment to the loan agreement.
Consequently, EMC is in no condition to
comply with its commitments regarding
the completeion of the design of the
wastewater treatment plant before the
loan closing date.
3.06            3           CD                                         EMC to acquire land for waste water treatment. (Target Date -
December 31, 1986).
3.07 (a)        4           C                                         EMC to make arrangements for borrowing ColS600 million     The Municipality has made arrangements
towards project financing.                                to borrow ColS2,000 for transferring the
_ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~proceeds to EMC.
3.08            5           C                                         Preparation of details on sewerage network construction under    Delayed submission however, did not
the project. (Target Date - March 31, 1985).             have any significant irnpact.
3.09            6           NC                                        EMC to take actions to protect environment and maintain    See Sec. 3.05 for related details; EMC
quality of the receiving Pamplonita River.                recognizes the need to provide for waste
treatment prior to discharge in
Panmplonita; EMC has also initiated in
Sept. 1988 an industrial waste pollution
3.10            S           NC                                        EMC to establish a Project Coordination Unit for carrying out    A coordination unit was establihd but
______  _____  __________                              the project.                                              isa performance was poor. Aa a



Revsised                                      :: : :    :                                                  ..
A4g.reernnt      S::e         Covenant   Status        Otig,lnal      F:: llmeis                :     Des      nof conant                                    Coments
__________                                   fs4~~~~ypefuYlllmet date  date
consequence, the Bank required
contracting of a fiduciary agency for
project management.
5.01 (a)        2           C                                          EMC to maintain separate financial needs for each of its
Departments (Water, Solid Wastes, Slaughter House and
Market Operations).
5.02            1           CD                                         EMC to arrange for yearly auditing of its financial statements  Usually submitted after significant
and submit to the Bank certified copies of audits. (Target Date   delays. The audit report for FY 92 abd
-not later than May 30 of each year).                     FY 93 were submitted with a delay of 4
months.
5.03            1           CD                                        Auditing of Special Account and submission to the Bank     See remark for 5.02 above.
certified copies of above audit. (Target Date - Not later than
_May 30 of each year).
5.05            2           NC                                        EMC not to incur additional debt - except that noted in Sec.  Additional debts (mainly from the
3.07(a) above - unless revenues exceed 1.5 times the debt-  Municipality) were warranted with
service.                                                  adequate Bank monitoring.
5.06            2           NC                                         EMC not to undertake major capital expenditures (outside of
the Project) in excess of US$I million without the Bank's
_concurrence.
5.07            1           NC                                        EMC to revalue fixed assets annually. (Target Date - Not later
than February 28, of each year).                          _
5.08            2           C                                         EMC to submit to the Bank a rolling 3-year Financial Plan.
(Target Date - Not later than September 30, of each year).
5.09 (a), (b) and   2       NC                                        EMC to achieve following ROR for water and sewerage        Agreed values of ROR were never
(c)                                                                   operations: 1-5% in '84; 3-5% in '85; 5% in '86; 5.5% in '87    achieved. A new covenant of working
and '88; 6% in '89; and 7% thereafter; EMC to review with the  ratio was introduced as follows:
Bank and undertake measures to meet compliance as needed.      - WR not higher than 70% by Dec.
31, 1992 (achieved)
- WR not higher than 60% by
Dec. 31, 1993
5.10 (a),(b) and   2       NC                                         EMC to produce adequate revenues to cover the operation of
(c)                                                                   other Departments except the Water and Sewerage Department,
and to review with the Bank and undertake measures to meet
compliance as needed.
5.11            2           NC                                        EMC to reduce Accounts Receivable (not to exceed 3.0 in 1984   EMC is activating collections to reduce
and 2.5 in 1985 and thereafter).                          arrears.
5.12            2          NC                                         EMC not to tranafer funds betwen Departments except        The Water and Sewerage Service has
there is a Surplus.                                       been subsidizing other services since
project inception.



Key covenant Types:
I        =        Accounts/audit
2        =         Financial Performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries       8        =         Indigenous people
3        =         Flow and utilization of projed funds                              9        =         Monitoring review, and reporting
4        =         Counterpart fiunding                                              10        =        Project Implementation not covered by categories 1-9
5        =        Management aspects of the project of executing agency              11       =         Sectorial or cross-sectorial budgetary or other resource allocation
6        =         Environmental covenants                                           12        =        Sectorial or cross-sectorial policy/regulatory/institutional action
7        =         Involuntary resettlement                                          13        =        Other
Status
C        =        covenant complied with
CD       =        complied with aflter delay
NC       =        not complied with
t'
l3



- 28 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Statement (OD or
OP/BP).
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project       Planned            Revised            Actual
Cycle         Weeks   US$ (1)  Weeks   US$ (1)   Weeks  US$ (1)
Through Appraisal                                             61.8
Appraisal-Board    _                                           6.4
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                                                  134.6
Completion                                                                 I
TOTAL                                                     202.8
(1) Information not available



- 29 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSION
Stage of Project    Month/   Number   Days in    Specialized   Performance          Types of
Cycle               year       of         field      Staff Skills   Rating (overall)  problems
persons               Represented
Through appraisal    Oct-81        2          5      SE,FA
Jun-83
Dic-83        2          30      SE,FA
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval      Oct-84         2          6      SE,FA                1
through Effectiveness
Supervision         May-85         2           8     SE,FA                2         AF
Nov-85                                               3         AF,PM
Ene-86        2          10     FA,C                 2         AF,PM
May-86        1           5      SE                  2         AF,PM
Mar-87        1           3     FA                   2         AF
Ago-87        1           4     SE                   2         AF
Dec-87        2          12      SE,FA               3         AF
May-88        2          32      SE-FA               4         AF,PM
Oct-88        2          22      SE,FA               3         AF,PM
Mar-89        1           4     SE                   2         AF,PM
May-89        3           9     FA,SE,UT             3         AF,PM,CLC
Jun-90        2           2     FA,C
Jul-91        2          18     C                              (1)
Sep-92        1          11     SE                   3         AF,PM,CLC
Abr-93        1           2     FA
May-93        2           6     SE,FA                3         AF,PM,CLC
Oct-93        2          10      SE,FA               3         AF,PM,CLC
Jul-94        2          10     SE,FA                U         AF,PM,CLC
Feb-95        1           1      SE                  U
Completion
TOTAL                                      210
SE=Sanitary Engineer           C=Consultant                    FA=Financial Analyst
AF=Availability of funds       UT=Urban/Transport Planner      CLC=compliance Legal Covenants
PM=Project Management Perf.
(1)=Disbursemsnt suspended



ANNEX 1
AVERAGE WATER TARIFF AND WATER LOSSES
YEAR    Vol.        Vol.    Losses   Water   Sewerage   Tatal   Average   Exch.  Average Average Total
Produced    Billed            Billed    Billed    Billed    Tariff    Rate    Water  (Water & Sew)
Tariff     Tariff
M3 (1)    M3 (1)   (%)    1,000         1000      1000   (Peso/m3 (June 30) (US$/m3)  (US$/m3)
Peso(l)   Peso(l)   Peso(l)   Billed)
1985             15,724,708                                                 142.9
1986                                                                        9 =  __  213.76
1987  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _  __ _ _ __             _ _  _  __ _  __  243.32
1988  45,491,710 20,260,765  55.46   656,361   313,153   969,514   47.85    299.28    0.108     0.160
1989  45,453,929 27,664,417  39.14  1,208,221   570,469  1,778,690   64.30    381.79    0.114   0.168
1990  45,191,072 26,531,550  41.29  1,416,044  667,418  2,083,462   78.53    502.39    0.109    0.156
1991  46,797,608 30,404,420  35.03  1,998,453  919,030  2,917,483   95.96    628.82    0.104    0.153
1992  50,801,097 31,620,724  37.76  3,245,887  1,492,416  4,738,303  149.85   758.62    0.135   0.198
1993  51,223,474 30,643,864  40.18  4,317,987  2,021,634  6,339,621  206.88   787.12    0.187   0.263
1994  50,769,167 30,179,118  40.56  4,848,092  2,277,717  7,125,809  236.12   819.64    0.196   0.288
1995(2) 38,004,893 21,243,320  44.10  4,009,218   .                         881.23
(1) Extracted from available audit reports and EMC data
(2) Production and billing data refer to the period January-September 1996



-31 -
ANNEX 2
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
GG-00195
San Jose de Ciicuta, May 27, 1996
Messers.
WORLD BANK
Att. Ing. Menahem Libhaber
Environment and Urban development Division
Department III
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribean
1818 H street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ref: Implementation Completion Report of the Cucuta Water Supply and Sewerage
Project
In response to your request we would like to present our opinion regarding the captioned
document.
Achievement of Objectives
We do not share the opinion that, from the institutional standpoint, EMC is currently in a
condition which is worse than its condition at the date of signing the Loan Agreement.
In the following paragraphs the executed works of the various project components are
indicated and compared with the implementation levels provided for in the Loan
Agreement:



- 32 -
Implementation of Works Under Component A: Extension of the Existing Water
Supply System
Implementation
provided for in
the Loan       Implemented          %
Description           Agreement        as of 06/30/95   Execution
A. EXPANSION OF THE
EXISTING WATER
SUPPLY SYSTEM
- Primary networks            43.0 km            62.4 km            145
- Storage tanks              8,000 m3           9,700 m3            121
- Las Lomas pumping station    120 I/s            120 V/s           100
- Los Benefactores pumping
station                        6 Vs                6 Is            100
- Secondary networks           120 km             120 km            100
- House connections         10,000 units      10,000+ units    More thanI 00
- Domestic meters supply and
installation               50,000 units       50,000 units         100
Implementation of Works Under Component B: Zulia River Water Supply System
Out of component B works, the Loma de Bolivar Bajo and Loma de Bolivar Alto tanks
and the corresponding pumping stations, which are essential to supply of the high western
part of the city, were not constructed due to lack of resources, although the pumping
equipment was purchased. Nevertheless, during project implementation the pressure
break chamber (consisting of two tanks with a volume of 1600 m3 each) and the Antonia
Santos tank (with a volume of 3200 m3), essential structures for adequate operation of the
new Zulia river supply scheme, were incorporated into the system. In total, 9,600 m3 of
storage volume was constructed, i.e., more than the projected 7000 m3.
Implementation of Works Under Component C: Sewerage Networks
The programmed works of this component were fully executed, providing adequate
sanitation to the periferic neighborhoods of San Martin, Panamericano, Aeropuerto,
Virgilio Barco, Ospina Perez, Belisario and Doia Nidia. Following is a summary of the
executed works:



-33 -
Implementation
provided for in
the Loan       Implemented        %
Description             Agreement       as of 06/30/95   Execution
C. SEWERAGE SYSTEM
- Primary collectors              11.0 km           10.2 km             90
- Secondary networks             100.0 km         124.72 km         124.72
- House connections              8200 units         6636 units          81
In addition, the final design of the collection, conveyance and treatment plant of the
wastewater of Ciicuta have been completed. It is important to clarify that, although the
construction of a wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of I m3 formed part of the
project, the financial resources allocated for the construction of the plant were
considerably under estimated and were sufficient only for design of that plant.
Consequently, it was impossible to construct the plant by utilizing the loan proceeds,
especially when taking into consideration that the cost of this plant, including the
collection and conveyance systems, amounts to US$ 40 million.
Component C: Storm water Drainage
This component was postponed due to lack of resources.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
The ICR failed to mention the incidence of devaluation of the Colombian peso in relation
to the Dollar, which generated an increment in the required counterpart funds and resulted
in shortage of funds for project implementation. The report should also mention that the
loan proceeds allocated for the wastewater components, especially for the wastewater
treatment plant, were not sufficient for achieving the objective.
Bank Performance
It is acknowledged that the Bank's decision to extend the loan closing date allowed the
effective completion of the new Zulia river water supply works (except for Loma de
Bolivar Alto and Loma de Bolivar Bajo tanks), which are essential for the city and are
currently in operation.



- 34 -
Lessons Learned
Taking into consideration that the Bank provides only partial financing for projects and the
Borrower is required to contribute counterpart funds, it is necessary that the Bank applies
a more flexible policy in regard to compliance with goals by the Borrower, with the
objective of avoiding delays in project implementation resulting from shortage of
counterpart funds caused by the devaluation of the local currency (the Colombian Peso).
Because of the devaluation of the local currency, the Bank should also consider
incrementing the financing percentage of civil works
Sincerely,
Jesus Javier Duarte Quintero
General Manager, EMC



-35
11UCUTA
oc- 001951
San Jos6 del Gi ,Q     27 MAyn w9g        _
INCOMLELOG
Date rc'd.   JH1. - 4 i996
Project No. _ :       7- 0-C           C:ontrolN
Senores       Assigned t      e: Action Taken_
WORLD B
Attu.  geniero Menahem Libbaber
Divishh de Medio Ambiente y Desarrollo Urbano
Departamento m
MOWi   RegioS    Paa America Latik y el Caribe
I818 H*.Street. N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Referencia: Informe de cumnPliniento de la  mp 1ec   de Proyecto de
Acueducto y Alcantarilado de Cu lta.
I'm atencifn a s solicitu, atentamente nos perjtim,s eresa nuestro concepto
sobre el dmmw=o~ indicado en la refrezcia:
LOGRO DE OBJrElVoS
No estamos de acuerdo con la afirmwin de que las EMC desde el punto de vista
asucional'l estii en peores condicicnes, que al momento de fimar el cridito.
A conhinuaci6n w mlaclwn~an  dieet   oIoLdepo~dnepei
S~~ ~~ ~~ &ro yes dopntsde  e, dOneprevia
revzi6n Y correccic1 se indcan ins obras ejccutuasj  y se comparan con io
estab1ec'd enCionfraO de PrMMMzO 2470-Co.,
AVNDA 6 CALLE 11 IDIlN. JOBg
EL'WPONO. 713W.1.372= FAX (975) 714112



- 36 -
IMCUCUTA
S~mu hnw hau3dh                                                          2
COMONENTE A. EXPANS1ON DEL SISTEMA EXISTENTE
DESCRIPCIO)N             SEGUN CONTRATO        E-JECUTADO A            %;DE AVANCE 
PRtSTAMO            JUNIO 30 IM9                FISICO
Rude MWrice.                          43 Km                 62.4 km          145
- Twiques de AlJmenrrerto             8000 Its              9.700.0 mB        121
-Esueoi6ndeBombeoLas Lors               1201ps                120.0Lps        100
- tdao6n Bomboo Lao Berefactoros         -0-                   150 Lps        100
- Pude Seouarias                       120 Kms                 120 Kms        100
C*rC.kn  doryioIijmrie                 10.000             Mis do 10.000       Mk 10O
-. $unstros e Instde Medidores         50.000              bO.00D.0 un        100
COMPONENTE B. SISTMA DEL RIO ZULIA
De la componente B de] Proyecto Zulia, por falta de fmanciaci6n no fueron
construidos los Tanques Loma de Bolfvar Bajo y Loma de Bolivar Alto y aunque se
adquirieron los equipos respectivos, no se construy6 la Estaci6n de Bombeo Loma de
Bolfvar Bajos, componentes necesaios pam abastecer la zona occidental alta de la
ci5dad, sin embargo, durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto se incorporaron los Tanques
de la CAmara de Quiebre (2 Tanques de 1600 m3 c/u.) y el Tanque Antonia Santos
(1 Tanque de 3200 m3), estructuras necesarias para la adeazada operaci6n del Nuevo
Acueducto del Rio Zulia. En total se construyeron 9600 m3 de almacenamiento de
7000 m3 programados.
COMPONENTE C. ALCANTAR,LLADO
De esta componeznte las obras previstas fueron ejecutadas en su totalidad saneindose
los banios perifricos de San Martfn, Panamencano, Aeropuerto, Virgilo Barco,
Ospina Perz, Belisano y Dofia Nidia, cuyo resamen se muesta a continuaci6n:
AVCNIDA 6 CALLS 11 EDIF.SAN JOSE
TELIZONOS 71305-7nm2 FAX (975) 714112



- 37 -
CMCUCUTA
S0mm DIU=                                                              3
DESMRIPCION         BEGUN CONTRATO          EJECUTADO A         % DE AVANCE
-                        PRESTAMO                JUNIO 30 1995          FiSiCo
- Contr.de cokctors prlnw      11  Kne              10.2 Krn              90
Dieho de Laune de oiddaci6n    1000 Wgseg.         1000 Its/seg          100
Redos de alcart. secwunderias  100  Kms          124.72 Kms          124.72
- C    n r~ &danSiewia*     8200  on                 n un                8t
(*) Diseos terminados en Abril de 1996.
AdemAs se alcanz6 a realizar el diseno defnitivo del sistema de colecci6n, conducci6n
y planta de tratamiento de aguas residuales para la ciudad de Cicuta. Sobre el
particular, es importante aclarar, que en la programacion fmanciera del proyecto,
aunque se habia contemplado la construcci6n de una planta de tratamiento de aguas
residuales con capacidad de I m3/seg., los recmusos que se previeron para este fin
solamente alcanzl7on para la fase de disefios; de ahi tambien la miposibilidad de
constnirla con cargo al contrato de pr6stamo suscrito con el Banco Mundial, mAxime
si se tieme en cuenta que el valor de la irnsina asciende a los US 40.000.000 incluido
el sistemna de coleccid6n y conducci6n de aguas negras.
COMPONENTE D. ALCANTARILLADO DE AGUAS LLUVIAS
Este componente se aplaz6 por falta de fianciaci6n.
PRINCIPALES FACTOS QUE AEECTARON EL PROYECTO
En el informe falt6 incluir la incidencia de la devaluacion del peso frente al d6lar,
situaci6n que gener6 el incremento de recursos de contrapartida por parte de las EMC,
causando desfinanciaci6n en el proyecto.
AVENIDA 6 CAlLE DI KDJDIFAN JOSE
TILONOS n30n3722 Ax W7sX Mg) n74



- 38 -
EMCICUTA
Sdmam BhW JAnmdi                                                      4
Debe incluirse que las partidas previstas en el contrato de prnstmo para la
componentes de aguas negras, especialmente para la construeci6n de la Plmta de
Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales, no fueron suficientes para lograr el objetivo.
DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
Se reconoce que la decisi6n del Banco Mundial de prorrogar en el tiernpo la vigencia
del contrato de prsamo, pennitio la terminaci6n efectiva del Nuevo Acueducto del
Rio Zulia (con excepci6n de los tanques Loma de Bolivar Alto y Bajo), obras
priritarias para la ciudad y que actualmente se encuentra en operacion.
LECCIONES APRENDIIDAS
T eniendo en cuenta que la financiaci6n de los proyectos por parte del Banco Mundial
se hace en forma parcal, requinmndose recursas de contaparida por parte del ente
presaatario, se hlace necesario la aplicaci6n por parte del Banco Mundial de una
politica mnis flexible en lo referente aI cumplirniento de metas por parte del rnismo
ente prestatario con el objeto de que el proyecto no se dilate en el tiempo, situacion
que por efectos de la devaluaci6n de la moneda (pesos colombianos) genera
mcranentos en los diras de contrapartida, desfinanciando por consiguiente los
proyectos.
Por la inisma circunstancia de la devaluaci6n de la moneda, debe considerarse la
poslbilidad de irementar el porcentaje de financiaci6n por parte del Banco Mundial
para las obras civiles.
Atentamente,
AVENIDA 6 CALLE 11 EDIFSAN JOS
TKIZONOS M0-7137M  FAX ("7) 714132



I



IMAGING
Report No:       15806
Type: ICR



