Dment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
,~  .y~oCO
RIePt N- P-3869-CO
REPOET AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEOP
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECrORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EOUIVALENT TO US$18.5 MILLION
TO
EMPRESAS MIICIPALES DE CUCUTA
WTTH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLO(TA
FOR A
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
August 17, 1984
docum_u  a rldui  dbl&lle. mi my be med by rpII  aidy In Ihtc peufummac d
Iheir elk ti du#. lb    1 - may -- hehuuIm be Usd_d iS! wor  B=k    1_



CURRENCY EQIVALENrS
Currency Unit - Peso Coloubiano (Col$)
Akerage Calendar 1982                        Average Calendar 1983
1US$1   Col$64.102                           US$1 - ColS78.857
Col$1 - US$O.0156                            Colsi - US$0.0127
Exchange Rate Effective August 12, 1984
US$1.00   - Col$103.4
Col$1.00 - USSo.0097
Weights and Measures
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EAA               Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bcgota
(Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Company)
ENC              Empresas Municipales de Cucuta
(Cucuta Mhnicipal Utility Company)
FFDU              Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(Urban Development Fund)
IDB               Interamerican Development Bank
iPUS             Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
INSFOPAL          Instituto Nacional de Pomento Municipal
(National Institute of Municipal Development)
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
COLOMBIA
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:        Empresas Municipales de Cucuta (ED(C)
Guarantor:       Republic of Colombia
Amount:          US$18.5 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee of US$46,135 and interest during construction on the
loan until the date of the first principal repayment.
Terms:            17 years, Including 4 years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project          The proposed project would consist of (a) construction of
Description:    water transmission, storage and distribution facilities, and
development of a new source of water supply for Cucuta; (b)
expansion of severage system, and construction of a waste
water treatment facility to reduce river pollution; (c)
storm drainage improvements; and (d) provision to EMC of
extensive technical assistance for a program of institu-
tional improvement.
Risks:            Since the works are relatively simple and consultants would
be assisting EMC, no significant delays are expected in the
execution of the project. While EMC should not find it
difficult to generate funds required for the project, its
readiness, or ability, to raise water rates does present a
risk.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million    --
Water Supply
Equipment and Materials              2.97        7.34       10.31
Civil Works                          5.58        1.81        7.39
Sewerage
Equipment and Materials              0.78        0.52        1.30
Civil Works                          2.14        0.72        2.86
Storm Drainage                         1.05        0.35        1.40
Institutional Improvement              0.45        0.31        0.76
Consultants' Services                  1.26        0.16        1.42
Base Cost 1/ 2/                     14.23       11.21       25.44
1/ In June 1984 prices.
2/ ENC is exempt from taxation on directly imported goods; local purchases
are subject to a value added tax which has been included in the local cost
component.



- ii -
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million
Physical Contingencies                  1.55        1.03         2.58
Price Contingencies3/                   1.76        3.02        4.78
Total Project Cost                   17.54       15.26       32.80
Interest during Construction
- IBRD loan                            -          3.19        3.19
- Other                               1.86         -          1.86
Front-end Fee                            -          0.05        0.05
Total Financing Required             19.40       16.50       37.90
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total        z
-       -US$ million--
EMC                         8.3           -          8.3         22
Government                  6.9           -          6.9         18
Local Loan                  4.2           -          4.2         11
IERD                         -          18.5        18.5        49
Total Financing          19.4         18.5        37.9       100
Disbursement:4/
Bank Fiscal Year
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
-sii-    - -  s Mil on-
Annual              1.6    2.8    3.9    5.0       3.4    1.0    0.5    0.3
Cumulative          1.6    4.4    8.3   13.3    16.7   17.7   18.2   18.5
Rate of Return:  12%5/
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4985-CO, dated August 14, 1984.
31 Based on Bank projections, as of November 1983, of price inflation and
peso depreciation (para. 53).
41 Includes up to US$500,000 in retroactive financing.
5/ Based on 92% of project costs and tariffs required to meet the covenanted
rates of return on annually revalued fixed assets.



INTERNATIONLAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$18.5 MIILLION
TO
EMPRESAS HUNICIPALES DE CUCUTA
FOR A CUCUTA. WkTER SUPPLY AID SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresas Municipales de Cucuta with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia for the equivalent of US$18.5 million, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$46,135 and interest during construction until the date of
the first principal repayment, to help finance a Cucuta water supply and
sewerage project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years
of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.       An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
mission was followed by a small updating mission which visited the country in
February 1984. Also, a mission to review the external sector and agriculture
visited Colombia during April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors in April 1984. This section reflects both
missions' major findings. Country data sheets are presented in Arnnex }.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenoa, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
1/ This section is an updated version of Part I of the report for the Small
Scale Industry IV Project (No. 2464-CO. July 10, 1984).



4.        Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.2Z on average during the
1950-83 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained In the 3.0% to 3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline In fertil-
ity. Colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0%.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
over 50Z and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950a to 64
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 4 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality fell
to 54 per thousand in the late 19709, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the lat. 1970s, 80% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and a.'equate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantil efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
Institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored Import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mId-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping



- 3 -
the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp Increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about lZ of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somevhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the effects
of increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export incen-
tives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints were
relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest rates
on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance coupa-
nies--and on lending therefrom-were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit



-4-
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 42 In
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems have continued through 1983. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5Z in 1981 fell to 1.4% in 1982 and to about 1I in 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit both in 1982 and 1983 as the production of cotton, oil
seeds and other agricultural commodities dropped as a result of low
international prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial
activity deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and
unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly in manufacturing.
After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in the resource
balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion, which continued at roughly this
level through 1983. These deficits resulted mainly from a drop in exports by
about 9% annually in real terms: major reasons were the slowdown in vorld
demand, a major devaluation and the introduction of Import restrictions in
Venezuela a major trading partner-in 1983, and the reduction in Colombia's
coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement significantly below
the 1981 coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by
about US$1,800 million in 1983 and Colombia's net international reserves were
equivalent to about 6.7 months of imports of goods and non-factor service at
year end. To a significant extent, the fall in foreign exchange reserves was
caused by the difficulties in tapping capital markets which resulted from the
external debt problems of other countries. Inflation slowed down in 1983 to
a 20% average for the year, down from 28% in 1981 and 252 in 1982.
11.       Since 1983 the Covernment has been introducing a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand and to initiate the adjustment process
required to expand and diversify non-coffee exports, stimulate domestic
production, and resume economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation is
being accelerated with a view to regaining the 1975 real exchange rate during
1985; the housing construction industry is being provided with incentives to
mobilize an increasing amount of resources; and open market operations are
being discontinued to increase liquidity in the economy. Temporary Import
restrictions are being introduced to arrest the falling foreign exchange
reserves; these are to be lifted once the real exchange rate achieves its
equilibrium level and exports respond fully to this incentive. The
stabilization measures introduced in 1977 have been gradually dismantled,
followed by government legislation, measures and regulations designed to
reduce the fiscal deficit and ease distortions and restrictions in the
financial system. While these measures have been in the right direction,
there is need for significant additional efforts, as recognized by the
authorities. In particular, the country continues to be affected by the
tight international capital market in 1984, which together with a somewhat
slower export growth than expected by the Government, have produced further
declines in foreign exchange reserves. The continuing pressure on the
external sector has brought to the Government's attention the need for
further and timely actions to reverse the current trends. Such a policy
package would need to include vigorous export promotion, stepped-up external
resource mobilization, promotion of foreign investment, and fiscal and
monetary measures for adjustment.



-5-
Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development
objectives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This
strategy emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the
benefits of development to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved
through increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the
process of economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the
resumption of growth while maintaining price stability. The strategy
strengthens the previous emphasis on export promotion as a means of
supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and
on policy measures designed to increase economic efficiency and raise
institutional capacity.  It proposes a continuation of the large effort in
public investment, giving high priority to energy, agriculture and industrial
projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
*      decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market. The development
plan's strategy also places emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and
contributing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial
policy objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with
adequate credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to
invest and expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign
markets, creating employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign
investment is to be encouraged. The financial sector is also to be
strengthened. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its efforts are focused upon
improving efficiency in the use of resources, broadening coverage of services
and strengthening the social service institutions. Programs in the housing,
health, and education sectors are to be better focused and integrated, and
selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers in the informal
sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for special
attention. Combined with a significant expansion in construction of
low-income housing and the extension of the Integrated Rural Development
(DRI) program, the new directions given to social programs are expected to
raise significantly the welfare of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       After many years of being a net petroleum exporter, Colombia
became a net oil importer in the mid 1970s and, in recent years, 10-15% of
merchandise imports have been accounted for by petroleum. In the absence of
rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major constraint on
growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem depends on the
country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy resources-
hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon increasing petroleum
exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that balance consumption with energy resource availabili-
ties, a least cost program of investments, sufficient domestic and external
financing for these investments, strengthened sector institutions, improved
program execution capability and rapid carrying out of investments. Although
planning and policy making have improved substantially in many energy sector
institutions in recent years, further improvements in overall sector planning
and coordination are needed. A recently completed National Energy study



- 6 -
carried out by the Government is providing the basis for seeking such
improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions have gone a
considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating
consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers
(primarily foreign companies) for 'Incremental" and 'new' crude provide
adequate production incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products
have been increased substantially in recent years, reflecting, on the whole,
international levels.
14.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation.  Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadeauate services could
become a constraint on economic growth and exports, affecting particularly
the development of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have taken steps to improve the country's
infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the ongoing
Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
16.       An increase of public sector investment will be required in the
next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1984-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 5% p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 9% of GDP during the 1984-86 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,312 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. In particular, the size
of the overall Central Government deficit will have to be reduced signifi-
cantly. The buoyancy of the tax system (excluding coffee tax revenues and
receipts from earnings on foreign exchange holdings), which has declined in
recent years, will have to be increased through new taxes and better tax



- 7 -
administration; the growth of expenditures will have to be checked; resources
will have to be used more efficiently; and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of
measures o tackle some of these issues was approved by Congress in 1983,
including measures related to broadening the base and increasing the average
rate of the sales tax, increasing other indirect taxes, reducing the
earmarking of revenues, reducing tax evasion, and strengthening tax adminis-
tration which are expected to have an effect in 1984. Additional actions on
the expenditure side are expected to follow. Since this effort Is likely to
coincide with increased private sector demand for investment resources, the
importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be over-stressed.
The recent capital market liberalization should encourage savings. A
significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely, however, as
long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization remains a sine
qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base, sound economic management
and increased capital inflows during 1984-86, Colombia's growth prospects for
this decade are reasonably good and significant advances in economic welfare
are anticipated. However, because of the decline in coffee prices and the
weakening in exports caused by the recession in some of traditional Colombian
markets, in addition to the need to increase imports to develop the country's
resource potential and restore higher economic growth, the current account
deficit of the balance of payments is projected to average US$1.5 billion per
year during 1984-86, equivalent to about 4% of GDP. Almost half of the
de.icit is projected to be financed by reducing foreign exchange reserves and
by direct foreign investment. By the end of this period, net official
international reserves would have fallen to a level of about three months of
imports of goods and non-factor services (a level which is adequate for
Colombia) without prejudice to the country's creditworthiness. This should
be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP of 3Z during this
period. Beyond 1986, the current account deficit should improve as a result
of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal) and a leveling-off of
imports resulting from increased domestic production of petroleum. The
current account deficit would gradually fall to about 12 of GDP by 1990. To
achieve real GDP growth of about 3% per annum during 1984-86, gross fixed
investment will have to be maintained at 20% of GDP, and to avoid too large
an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national savings vould need to
average about 19X of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total about
US$5,655 million in current prices for the 1984-86 period, for an annual
average requirement of about US$1,885 million. Net foreign investment is
expected to account for US$750 million during 1984-86. This should provide
about 13% of the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 87%
(US$4,905 million) about US$2,500 million, has been either committed or is
expected to be secured from multilateral and bilateral sources, while the
difference, US$2,405 million, will need to be borrowed abroad from financial
markets and suppliers' credit sources. At the end of 1982, Colombia's public
and publicly guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to
US$6.2 billion, equivalent to 16% of GUP. The Bank/IDA share of this
external debt was 22%. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing
from commercial sources, this share is expected to remain at about 20% during
1983-86.



-B -
Tbe public debt service ratio at thr end of 1982 was 182 and is expected to
climb to 25% by 1986, peak at about 27% in 1988 and then decline gradually to
24Z in 1990. Tbe World Bank's share in public debt service is expected to
remain below 25% during 1983-86. With continued sound economic and financial
innagement, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness tbrough and
beyond the 1984-90 ppriod.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       Tbp proposed loan, the 108th to be madp to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$4,121.9 million (net of can-
cellations). Of this amount tbe Bank hpld, as of March 31, 1984 US$2,981.3
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursoemnts have been completed on 66 loans and the IDA credit. Before 1979,
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but had increased
to US$250 million per year by 1982 and US$294.5 million in 1983.  WUile lower
than those recorded in Latin Azwrica for similar projects, concentrated
efforts to ovrercome problem% in project execution bave resulted in signific-
ant incrpases in the disbursement record in 1983 anx  1984. Improving per-
formance of social sector institutions, gradual containmpnt of inflationary
pressures and the eeffects of the recently introduced fiscal reforms, which
should improve counterpart funding, and increased Bank lending for infra-
structure projects, all point to a higher level of disbursements in tbe
future. IFC has made investments and underwriting counitments of USS119.9
millon in 29 enterprises and, as of March 31, 1984, it held USS48.0
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA crediz
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
21.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through tbh  mid-1960s, 882 of the
loans made mere for power or transport, since then tbe Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and ind%-try, and initiated lending
for irrigations and watershed management, education, water supply, telecouuu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By tbh  late 1970s, 53% of the
loans made to Colombia wpre for projects other than transport and power. of
the loans madp since 1978, 39Z wpre for pomer and transport, 16% Pach for
agriculturp and industrial projects, 7% for urban development, Z5% ach for
projects in water supply, telecommunications and irrigation, and 7% for
education, nutrition and multipurpose projects. The diversification was
a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader range of
Colombia's developm-nt problems. The experience gained has served to
identify areas in which tbe Bank's role can only bp a margiaal one and, thus,
to enable lending to be focussed upon sPctors in which the Bank's presence
can have a meaningful impact.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY84 consisted of loans for power sec-
tor financing, coal exploration, earthquake reconstruction, agricultural
diversification and multipurpose water supply and electricity, totalling
US$464.1 million. In addition, the Bank parricipated in two B-loans for a
total of 14% of thp loans, or US$28.75 million. In response to Colombia's
having undertakpn a gradual adjustment process to expand and diversify non-
coffee exports and resume growth, the thrust of Bank support has shifted
towards strengthening the GovPrnment's programs, enhancing the effectiveness
of resource use5, and emphasizing quick-yielding investments. Loans recently
approved by the Board and a numbpr of operations at an advanced stage of



-9-
prearation reflect this overall direction.  Regarding infrastructural
investments, the FY85 program stress rehabilitation, modernization and a more
intensive use of facilities already in place, such as is the case of the
proposed project, as well as electricity distribution, reinforcing the
efforts under the recently approved power development finance project which
was entirely geared toward completion of ongoing projects.  Similarly.
increased emphasis has been placed on directly productive operations. such as
tbe already-approved agricultural diversification and small-scale industry
projects, and the development banklng project which is expected to be
considered by the Board in the near future. Beyond FY85, work is also
underway on projects for further petroleum development, electric power,
development finance, agricultural extension and marketing, fertilizers, and
irrigation for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the
next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. Future loans would finance agriculture and iadustry to
support the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, and to increase and diversify exports, and help develop
renewable sources of energy through lending for hydropowier and arranging
associated co-financing. Closely related to thpsp objectives would be Bank
lending for infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-
regional flow of goods and services. Finally, several loans are being pre-
pared in support of the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of
the Colombian population. Propose-d lending for further rural development,
agricultural credit, water supply and sewerage., and irrigation projects are
principally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The aperations of external lpnders in Colombia are shown in
Annex I. Uhile IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75X of total
e=xternal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties.  Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to eaergy-related
projects in addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control which are aimed at improving living standards
of the lower income population.  In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Service LPvPls
25.       In 1983, about two-thirds of Colombia's estimated population of
27.5 million lived in urban agglomerations2/ and one-third in the suall
21 2,500 or more inhabitants.



- 10 -
communities or rural areas. About 602 of total population had access to
public water supply and about 50Z was connected to a sewerage system. Piped
water was available to 80% and sewerage services to 65Z of the urban inhabit-
ants. These proportions were much lower for the rural population; about 222
had water connections and less than 202 sewerage connections.
26.       Nation-wide water and sewerage service levels place Colombia among
the better served countries in Latin America; several countries with similar
income levels rank far below. However, the quality of service is uneven.
Many water supply and sewerage systems are in need of repairs or have become
obsolete. In large and medium-size cities, safe water is generally available
on a continuous basis, but service tends to be irregular in some neighbor-
hoods. In small communities and rural areas, the quality of water is often
unsatisfactory. In practically all urban agglomerations and rural areas,
waste water is discharged untreated, often causing severe pollution in rivers
and streams.
Sector Institutions
27.       The Ministry of Health is in charge of the sector and formulates
sector policy in coordination with the National Planning Department. Two
decentralized entities, the National Institute for Urban Development
(INSFOPAL) and the National Institute of Health (INAS) are responsible for
central planning and financing of sector investment in urban agglomerations
and rural areas, respectively, and act as technical and financial intermedia-
ries. In 28 principal cities, where about 482 of the country's population is
concentrated, autonomous municipal utility companies are in charge of water
supply and sewerage, and - in many instances - solid waste collection and
disposal, public markets and slaughterhouses. As a rule, these companies
have a Geaeral Manager, appointed by the Mayor, and a Board whose members are
appointed by the City Council. In the smaller cities and towns, sanitation
works companies are in charge of construction, maintenance and operation of
water supply and sewerage systems. The activities of these sanitation works
companies are coordinated and supervised by municipal or departmental author-
ities, and by INSFOPAL; in fact, some of them were operating subsidiaries of
TNSFOPAL before 1975, when INSFOPAL was reorganized and relinquished the
operation of sanitation facilities. Sanitation works companies are managed
by executives selected jointly by INSFOPAL and the local authorities, and
their Boards consist of representatives of INSFOPAL, the departments and
municipalities, and the users of the services. In many small towns, local
administrations provide water and sewerage services directly. In rural
areas, water and sanitation facilities are built by departmental offices of
INAS in coordination with the beneficiary communities.
28.       While the water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia might have
reached a higher stage of development than in some other Latin American
countries, the record of INSFOPAL, INAS and most of the companies supplying
the services has fallen short of expectations. Performance of these sector
entities is largely determined by local conditions and the attitudes of the
local authorities. Thus, INSFOPAL and INAS found it difficult to provide the
leadership required to ersure within the sector adequate standards of opera-
tion, maintenance and financial management. Moreover, they never acquired
the necessary proficiency in investment programming and supervision of proj-
ect execution by local operating entities. Frequent changes in management,
shortage of competent and experienced staff, and the deficient administrative
and operational procedures have further limited the effectiveness of the two



- 11 -
institutions. At the local level, most of the operating companies are handi-
capped by unduly large and poorly trained work force, large quantities of
unaccounted-for water, reluctance - or inability - to charge proper water
rates and inadequate accounting. billing and collection procedures.
Sector Policies and Finances
29.       Government policy aims at expanding water and sewerage services,
and improving their quality. For 1990, it has set for urban agglomerations
service level targets of 90! for water and 80! for sewerage. For rural
areas, service levels are to be raised from about 222 to 40Z for water supply
and from less than 202 to 352 for sewerage. This would mean reaching an
additional 5.5 million people in the urban areas and an additional 2.0
million in the rural areas by the end of 1990.  In line with the Government's
goal of -development with equity", most of the new beneficiaries would be
low-income families, consuming relatively little water and paying minimum
rates.
30.       The Government recognizes that these service level targets are very
ambitious. In the 'seventies, annual sector investment averaged about US$160
million equivalent at 1983 prices. The peak of almost USS200 million was
reached in the middle of the decade, but thereafter investment fell to about
US$120 million annually. About 92Z of the investment benefitted the urban
agglomerations and only 8Z the rural areas. About 602 of the capital expend-
iture was financed by budget appropriations and domestic credit; about 20% by
external lenders, primarily the Bank and the IDB; and the balance largely
frow internal cash generation of the local operating companies.
31.       The Government is well aware of the financial implications of its
policy aims for the sector, which would call for capital expenditure of the
order of USS1.7 billion (at 1983 prices) over the next six years. Conse-
quently, to attain higher levels of self-financing, through internal cash
generation by the local companies providing water and sewerage services, has
now become a foremost objective of Government policy for the sector. The
Government also endeavors to ensure a steady flow of funds for sector invest-
ment, recognizing that its sporadic contributions in the past have hampered
planning for expansion and delayed execution of projects.
Bank Role In the Sector
32.       Between 1968 and 1979, the Bank made nine loans, totalling USS233.4
million, for water supply and sewerage in Colombia. In addition, water and
sewerage components were included in the first urban project and the nutri-
tioa project of 1978, and in two rural development projects financed by the
Bank. Six of the loans, US$166.3 million in the aggregate, were made to the
*       autonomous municipal utilIty companies in Bogota, Call and Palmira, and
three, for a total of US$67.1 million, to INSFOPAL for relending to local
companies in support of 36 projects in medium-size and small cities and
towns. By far the largest borrower has been Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota (EAAB), to which the Bank has lent US$132 million in
three separate operations; a fourth loan is being discussed. To date, per-
formance audit reports were issued -for the first Bogota project of 1968 and
the first Cali project of 1970, and a project completion report for the



- 12 -
Palmira project of 1971.3/ These reports were critical of the optimistic
projections of demand for water, which had been disproved by a declining
trend in urban growth in the 'seventies and by a concomitant fall in water
use per household, as low-income inhabitants came to represent a rising pro-
portion of the beneficiary population. They pointed out to delays in project
execution which, in an inflationary environment, resulted in cost overruns
for most of the projects. Furthermore, the reports emphasized the general-
ized failure to raise water rates to conpensate for cost increases.
33.       The Bank's experience with the Bogota projects and with EAAB has
been relatively good. The first two projects, though completed after sub-
stantial delays, have achieved their basic objectives. The third project is
being carried out satisfactorily and should be completed by mid-1985. In the
case of the other projects and borrowers, the Bank has encountered difficul-
ties in accomplishing its institutional objectives. In particular, INSFOPAL
in spite of three loans has not developed into the strong and efficient
regulatory, technical support and financial assistance institution through
which the Bank planned to support projects in medium-size cities and towns.
The financial performance of many municipal utilities (Cali, subborrowers of
INSFOPAL projects) was inadequate, largely because of the combined effect of
insufficient tariff levels and excessive operating costs. The financial
viability of many companies was impaired particularly in 1981 and 1982 when
the Government rejected applications for water rate adjustments. Only in
1983, did the Government move to correct the situation by authorizing large
rate increases; however, these increases were reduced or delayed in some
instances because of political opposition. Another obstacle for more
efficient project Implementation was the Government's inability to make
available budget appropriations for investment through INSFOPAL and INAS in a
timely fashion.
34.       Faced with the failure of INSFOPAL, the Bank has changed its sector
strategy for Colombia. Multi-city lending Is no longer considered feasible
until INSFOPAL can improve its performance dramatically, or alternative
intermediary arrangements are established. Consideration is being given at
this time to direct lending on a selective basis to the larger municipal
utility companies, which have demonstrated the will to improve their
standards of performance and to accept outside advice, even though this is
regarded as an inferior solution likely to constrain efforts to raise service
levels throughout Colombia. Expresas Hinicipales de Cucuta would be the
first of these companies.
PART IV - CUCUTA WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES
The City
35.       Located in the northeast on the border with Venezuela, Oiucta is
Colombia's eighth largest city and a departmental capital. Founded by the
Spanish 250 years ago, it has grown from a town of 40,000 in 1940 to an urban
agglomeration of 350,000 in 1983. In the last three decades, three munici-
palities adjacent to Cucuta have also experienced rapid growth and the possi-
bility is being explored of consolidating the pub-ic services throughout the
Cucuta metropolitan area. Because of its location and due to the creation of
3/ SecM7R-260 of March 3, 1978, SecH79-632 of August 29, 1979 and SecM83-714
of July 11, 1983.



- 15 -
is the most urgent investment. It vould permit EMC fully to utilize the
available average daily peak production capacity of 1.4 cubic meters per
second from the existing water source, the Pamplonita River which flows into
the Zulia River and would suffice to meet projected demand until 1989.
Thereafter, tapping the Zulia River would be the least-cost alternative for
meeting Cucuta's longer-term water demand, the dependable yield of the
Pamplonita River being too small to produce more water. The Zulia River
scheme involves tapping cooling water tailings of an existing power plant
operated by Instituto Colombiano de Electricidad, and the construction of a
water treatment plant, a combined gravity-pumping water transport system, and
two storage tanks from which water would be fed into Cucuta's existing trans-
mission and distribution network. For the first stage of the Zulia River
scheme to come on line in 1989, procurement has to be initiated in 1985.
Once in full production, it will add a production capacity of about 1m3/sec
which, with complementary investments in water transmission, storage and dis-
tribution, would meet Cucuta's demand through the next 20 years.
44.       EMC plans to provide sewerage services to 802 of Cucuta's popula-
tion by 1988 and to maintain them at that level thereafter.  This would
require the construction of about 16,400 house connections to service about
100,000 people. About 407 of these connections would be in urban areas with
already existing sewerage infrastructure. Urban developers would build
secondary collector networks in unsewered areas and make about 102 of the new
connections. EMC would thus be responsible for the construction of trunk
sewer and secondary collector networks, sufficient to service about 8,200
house connections. Consultants have drawn up for EMC a masterplan for
expanding Cucuta's sewerage system through 2005. The recommended least-cost
solution would divide the municipal area into three sewer districts with
separate interceptor and treatment facilities. Waste water from the
Pamplonita district, covering most of Cucuta, would be transported through
the existing but expanded system of interceptors to a stabilization lagoon
for treatment and subsequent discharge into the Pamplonita River. The treat-
ment would result in a marked improvement in the quality of water in the
Pamplonita River and safeguard the quality of water in the Zulia River.
45.       EMC was among the beneficiaries of the second loan made by the Bank
to INSFOPAL in 1975 and of the loan made to the Republic of Colombia in 1978
for the first urban development project. The loan proceeds allocated to it
amounted, respectively, to US$1.58 million and US$3.0 million. In both
instances, the execution of the subprojects suffered from delays; the finan-
cial targets, laid down in the Subsidiary Agreements with INSFOPAL, were not
met fully, one of the reasons being that the Government refused to authorize
EMC to raise water rates in 1980, 1981 and 1982.
EMC Financial Performance
46.       Traditionally, the water and sewerage service has been EMC's
strongest revenue earner, with its revenues being used to subsidize the other
services. Between 1978 and 1982, EMC generated sufficient revenues to cover
operating costs, working capital needs and debt service for all its services
on a consolidated basis. During that period, expenses quadrupled under the
impact of inflation and service expansion, while the growth of operating
revenues fell behind, owing to very low tariffs which did not change between



- 16 -
1980 and 1982 (with the exception of slaughtering fees). In this situation,
investment outlays of the water and sewerage service were small and were
financed mainly by loans and Government grants.
47.       The financial position of EMC improved substantially in 1983.
After a complete modernization, slaughterhouse tariffs were increased seven-
fold in 1982. Water and sewerage rates went up by 90% in April 1983 and
through the remainder of 1983 have been subject to sonthly increases of
1.5x. As a result, with the exception of solid waste collection and dis-
posal, each EMC service generated a cash surplus in 1983. Nonetheless, water
and sewerage rates remain low and raising them over a period of time would
not inflict undue hardship on the customers. The average combined water and
sewerage tariff was equal to US$0.14 per cubic meter of water in 1983 and the
monthly bill per connection averaged US$5 equivalent; these figures were
about 50Z below Bogota and Cali levels. ENC customers are divided into
several categories, and the tariffs are progressive.  The lowest residential
category benefits from a fixed charge of 46 pesos for a monthly water allow-
ance of 20 cubic meters. The monthly water charge of 46 pesos represents not
more than 0.5Z of the family income at the estimated relative poverty level
of about 130,000 pesos per annum, making the cost of service easily afford-
able. In line with other cities in Colombia, high income Cucuta customers
pay water rates about five times higher than those being collected from low-
income customers. EMC derives about 201 of its water and sewerage operating
revenues from connection charges. The present average combined charge for a
water/sewerage connection is roughly equivalent to US$350 and is being levied
over a period of 12 to 40 months, depending on the customer's ability to
pay.
48.       To enhance its capacity to generate internal resources for invest-
ment and to make each of its services financially self-supporting, EEC bas,
effective July 1984 increased tariff levels for water and sewerage and market
services. Increases in tariffs for the solid waste service are expected to
be authorized by the National Tariff Board and implemented by EMC before the
end of this year. This would enable EMC in 1984 to make a 10% contribution
to investment from internal cash generation. It should further ensure a 1.0%
rate of return for the year on revalued fixed assets of the water and sewer-
age service, compared with negative rates of 5.3% in 1982 and 0.51 in 1983.
49.       Some of the existing debt of EMC is secured by lien on its assets
and revenues. Ebvever, none of these liens have been created on the assets
or revenues of the water and sewerage service. Their total is quite small,
if compared with EHC prospective overall revenues.
PART V - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project (IBRD Maps 18145 and 18146) was identified in
the fall of 1981 by a Bank mission which visited Cucuta at the invitation of
Empresas Municipales de Cucuta (EMC). The mission recommended that consult-
ants be retained to bring up to date the existing masterplans for expanding
the water and sewerage system, in order to help prepare a project with the
assistance of the Bank. On the occasion of Cucuta's 250th anniversary in
June 1983, the President of Colombia declared his support for the project and
offered a Government grant as a contribution to its cost, on the grounds that



- 17 -
the project would improve living and working conditions in a city going
through a difficult period-owing mainly to the across-the-border effects of
the economic problems affecting Venezuela--and would make Cucuta better able
to diversify its economic pursuits by attracting some industrial enterprises
(para. 35). The project was appraised in December 1983 and the negotiation
of the proposed loan took place in Washington in May 1984 with a delegation
headed by Pedro Sayago Rojas (General Manager of EMC), and consisting of a
special representative of the President of the Republic and the head of EMC's
Project Coordination Office.
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The objectives of the project are: to improve water and sewerage
service and extend it by 1988 to 95% and 802, respectively, of Cucuta's
inhabitants; to provide an adequate source of safe water for the next 20
years; to reduce the volume of unaccounted-for water through leak detection
and repairs, better network maintenance, and installation of about 50,000
water meters; to check river pollution; to put an end to flooding of the
city's center; and to transform EMC into a modern, well-managed, efficiently
operated, competently administered and financially sound public utility. The
project would consist of: the expansion of water transmission and distribu-
tion capacity; the construction of a new water production facility on the
Zulia River with the capacity of one cubic meter per second; the expansion of
the capacity of the sewerage system, including the construction of a waste
water stabilization lagoon for treatment of sewage before discharge into the
Pamplonita River; construction of storm drainage collectors and the lining of
a section of Canal Bogota; an institutional improvement program, involving
provision to EMC of consultants, training and equipment; preparation of a
study on the Feasibility of consolidating water and sewerage services
throughout the Cucuta metropolitan area; and provision of consultants for
project administration and construction supervision. The project is to be
carried out in seven years.
Status of Project Preparation
52.       Pro'ect preparatico  is well advanced.  About 90% of all designs and
bidding doci'aents have already been completed. With the exception of the
designs for the waste water stabilization lagoons, for which consultants are
currently carrying out treatability tests on a pilot facility, all designs
and bidding documents are expected to be completed by the end of July 1984.
Draft terms of reference for the project administration and supervision of
construction consultancy have been discussed during negotiations. After
incorporating the Bank's comments EMC expects to invite proposals from four
local engineering firms with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank by mid-
June 1984 and engage the consultants by September 1984. Draft terms of
reference for the various technical assitance consultancies are being pre-
pared by EMC and are expected to lead to the beginning of work in March 1985.
Cost and Financing
53.       The cost of the project, excluding interest during construction and
the front end fee, is estimated at US$32.8 million equivalent. The base
cost, in June 1984 prices, is US$25.4 million. No allowance is included for
duties and taxes for imported goods since EMC is exempt from such charges.



- 18 -
Local goods are subject to a tax on the value added by local manufacturers
which on average amounts to about 4X of the purchase price. This tax is
included in the local cost component. Physical contingencies vere calculated
by the Bank at about 10%. Price contingencies, equivalent to about 17% of
base costs plus physical contingencies, were calculated assuming that local
inflation varies from 20% in 1984 to 18% in 1991 and foreign inflation from
9.5% in 1984 to 6% in 1991. The foreign exchange component mounts to
US$15.26 million or 46.5% of the project cost.
54.       Total financing required amounts to US$37.9 million equivalent,
including interest during construction. This is justified by the cash flow
needs of EMC, determined by the large size of the project in relation to
existing capital assets. The local component is US$19.4 million equivalent
and the foreign exchange component US$18.5 million. The financing plan pro-
vides for an EMC contribution of US$8.3 million equivalent, a Government conr
tribution of 800 million pesos (equivalent to US$6.9 million), a long-term
loan from local financial institutions of 600 million pesos (equivalent to
US$4.2 million) and a loan of US$18.5 million by the Bank. The Bank would
finance the foreign exchange component of the project cost, interest on its
loan during construction until the date of the first principal repayment to
the Bank, and the front-end fee of US$46,135. The long-term loan from local
financial institutions is expected to be provided by PFDU which has already,
through a letter of intent, expressed its preparedness to make the required
funds available. To ensure the financing plan for the-project, assurances
have been received from (i) EMC that It would enter into arrangements with
local financial institutions in order to obtain additional financial
resources in the amount of ColS600,000,000 not later than December 31, 1985,
and the Government, that it would take all necessary actions to enable the
Borrower to secure these additional funds; and (ii) the Government that it
would provide to the Borrower in a timely manner, an amount of not less than
Col$800 million in the form of budgetary contributions (Sections 2.02 and
2.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Execution of the Project
55.       The Project Coordination Office of EMC would carry out the pro-
ject. This Office is competently staffed and directly subordinated to the
General Manager (para. 37). The draft Loan Agreement provides that EMC would
maintain the Project Coordination Office under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers
(Section 3.10). A personal representative of the President of the Republic
would closely follow the progress of the project. The Project Coordination
Office would be assisted by consulting engineers employed on terms and con-
ditions acceptable to the Bank; their employment would be a condition of the
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Sections 3.02 and 7.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Most of the investment under the project would be completed by
the end of 1989. Of high priority are the expansion of water transmission
and distribution capacity, which would enable EMC to make full use of its
water production capacity, and institutional improvement. Since initial pay-
ments on some contracts for these parts of the project may have to be made
before the signing of the proposed loan, retroactive financing of not more
than US$500,000 equivalent has been recommended for goods amd services pro-
cured after December 31, 1983 amd in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- lQ -
56.       The areas where sewerage networks would be built have not yet been
e,finitely determined. Before March 31, 1985, EMC would furnish to the Bank
a program for their construction based on population density and its willing-
ness and ability to pay for the service (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Not later than June 30, 1985, EMC would present to the Bank the
final design for a stabilization lagoon, where waste water would be treated
before discharge into the Pamplonita River; and not later than December 31,
1986, EMC would purchase the land required for the construction of the lagoon
(Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       To bring about the necessary institutional Improvement, extensive
technical assistance would be provided to EMC in the following fields,
supplemented by training of personnel and the acquisition of data processing
equipment: (i) organization, management and administration; (ii) maintenance
and operation of all EMC services; and (iii) control of water losses, includ-
ing leak detection and repairs. Local consultants would provide the assist-
ance, drawing on foreign expertise in specialized areas. The main objective
would be to improve existing procedures and practices, and make them more
efficient thus enhancing staff productivity. On-the-job training, supple-
mented by outside training to meet special needs, would be the main vehicle
for technology transfer. The scope of the technical assistance program and a
timetable for its implementation were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. The progress of the institutional improvement program would be
closely monitored by way of reports and Banlk staff visits.
Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing
58.       Procurement arrangements for the project (Annex Ill) would be such
that contracts awarded through international competitive bidding would
account for more than 80% of the project cost. Most of the equipment con-
tracts are expected to be won by foreign manufacturers. Contracts for water
pipes and accessories are likely to be awarded to local producers, although
large diameter pipe may be supplied from abroad. Qualifying domestic
suppliers would be given a preference in bid evaluation of 15Z of the c.i.f.
bid price or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower (Schedule 4 to
the draft Loan Agreement). Civil works contracts would most probably go to
local contractors, but because of Cucuta's location, participation by foreign
contractors is also envisaged. Technical assistance contracts would be let
in accordance with Bank guidelines for use of consultants and are expected to
be won by local consulting firms, which rely on foreign consultants for
specialized assignments. To attract competition from abroad, contracts would
be grouped into large packages for both equipment supply aid civil works. An
exception would be the construction of water and sewerage networks, and
service connections, which are more conveniently bid in smaller packages.
59.       Disbursement would be: (a) against 100% of foreign expenditure for
direct imports; 60% of local expenditure for imported equipment and materials
procured locally and 60% of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods;
30% of total expenditure for civil works; 100% of foreign expenditure for
foreign consultants and training; and 30Z of local expenditure for local con-
sultants and training; and (b) in respect of amounts due for interest and
other charges on the Bank's loan until the date of the first principal repay-
ment to the Rank (Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).  For local con-
tracts of less than US$30,000 equivalent each, the Bank would disburse
against statements of expenditure certified by EM4C.



- 20 -
60.       In order to expedite project execution and to reduce the interval
during which EMC would finance with its own resources the Bank's share of
locally procured goods and services, a Special Account would be opened at
Banco de la Republics and an initial deposit of up to US$1.0 million would be
made into it through one or more withdrawals from the Loan Account [Section
2.02(c) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement]. EMC would be entitled
to make withdrawals from the Special Account upon presentation to Banco de la
Republica of duly authorized copies of withdrawal applications supported by
proper documentation. At the same time, EMC would forward the original with-
drawal applications to the Bank, which would replenish the Special Account.
The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank [Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       ENC would at all times keep adequate project accounts.  EMC's
financial statements separate for each service and consolidated and the
Special Account and the certified statements of expenditures would be audited
annually by Independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The auditor's
report would be sent to the Bank no later than five months after the close of
each Fiscal Year (December 31).
EMC Financial Prospects
62.       During the period of the execution of the proposed project, EMC
would implement a number of measures to rehabilitate its financial condition
and raise its capacity for internal cash generation. As a result, EMC should
be in a position to make a contribution of 22% to the cost of the project
from its own resources.
63.       Through gradual increases in water and sewerage rates by 60% in
real terms between 1985 and 1990, EMC should earn on its annually revalued
fixed assets of the vater and sewerage service an annual return of 3.5Z in
1985, 5% in 1986, 5.5% in 1987 and 1988, 6% in 1989 and 7% in 1990; there-
after, the rate of return would remain at the level of 7Z (Section 5.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement). From its operations other than vater supply and
sewerage, 124C would generate revenues equivalent on a consolidated basis to
not less than its total operating expenses, the amount by which debt service
exceeds provision for depreciation, its working capital requirements, and its
other assets and liability requirements (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
64.       To bolster its financial position further, EMC would not-without
che Bank's agreement-incur any debt, if this would reduce the debt service
coverage below 1.5 during any twelve-month period (Section 5.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Moreover, unless the Bank has concurred, EKC would not in
any given year commit itself to, or incur, a capital expenditure of more than
US$1.0 million equivalent in addition to the proposed project (Section 5.06
of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       While adequate water rates and other tariffs for EMC services would
be the key to financial rehabilitation, technical assistance provided under
the proposed project would assume an Important role in raising productivity
and bringing about cost-savings throughout EMC. Among the specific targets
would be an effective control of water losses, reduction in the number of
employees per one thousand water connections (para. 37), and the reduction in



- 21 -
collection arrears from an amount corresponding at oresent to sales proceeds
of about three months to an amount equivalent to two and a half months' sales
in 1985 and thereafter (Section 5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
66.       About 240,000 people would benefit from the water supply component
of the project; of them, 130,000 would be connected to the water distribution
network and 110,000 would no longer be subject to water rationing. About
100,00 more people would be connected to the sewerage system upon the comple-
tion of the project than there are at present. The Zulia River water produc-
tion facility would supply potable water to an additional 200,000 people
between 1991 and 2008. The treatment of sewage would reduce water pollution
in the Pamplonita and Zulia Rivers, thus benefittiog the riparian population
in Colombia and Venezuela. About 60% of the people benefitting from the
project would be the urban poor living on an annual income of less than
US$220 equivalent per person. The cost of service would be affordable to the
urban poor. Assuming that family income increases in time with inflation,
a family living below the relative poverty level would have to spend 0.8% of
its income for water and 1.1% for water and sewerage combined based on pro-
jected 1990 tariff levels. Connection fees (about Col$18,000 for water and
about ColSl2,000 for a sewerage connection) would equally be affordable,
since they could be paid in up to 40 monthly installments.
67.       Using estimated revenues as a proxy for economic benefits (based on
tariffs required to meet the covenanted rates of return on revalued fixed
assets--para. 63), economic rates of return were calculated for the water
supply component, the sewerage component, and for these project components
combined. Shadow pricing was applied for the unskilled labor narts of con-
struction and operating costs. The results show rates of return of, respec-
tively, 10%, 19% and 12%. Considering that financial revenues do not fully
reflect the economic and social benefits of investment in water supply and
sewerage, these rates of return are satisfactory. No rates of return were
estimated for the storm drainage component of the project and for institu-
tional improvement, because their costs cannot be reliably allocated to any
specific group of beneficiaries. These costs are relatively small, amounting
in the aggregate to 8Z of the cost of the project.
68.       No significant delays are expected in the execution of the pro-
ject. The works are relatively simple and engineering consultants would be
assisting EMC in project administration and construction supervision. The
project has been assigned high priority by central, local and municipal
authorities, and the involvement of a personal representative of the
President of the Republic would certainly speed up physical progress (para.
55). Conservative population and consumption forecasts were used in prepa-
ring the revenue estimates. Water rates projected for 1990 would still be
low, compared with those charged in other cities (para. 47), and should be
well within the customers' capacity to pay. Thus, the potential for raising
rates above the projected levels would be there in case of unexpected cost
increases. Nevertheless, the Bank's experience shows that the attitude of
the Government and the local authorities regarding implementation of timely
and adequate increases in public utility rates does present a risk.



- 22 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Empresas Hunicipales
de Cucuta, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex IV.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attacbments
Washington, D.C.
August 17, 1984



- 23 -                                                        Annex 1
T A BLE  36                                           Page  1 of 5
CLMBIA               - SOCaL INDICATORS DATA 
COLSIIA                             REBU.Ct CmUmS CuLGID 
"DST               (NMST REnET ErSTE) /b
Rem.cT        MIDDL IUs             uIDDtf IDCs
Iubose    19743!    RITDIATtb  LALT. ASRICA A CAB              _IOE
TOTAL                             113B.9     1138.9      1138.9
ACRICULTURAL                       350.5      350.5      320.5
cUP  atR ChITN (usl                  270.0       440.0     1460.0           2100.6                   2345.2
rsc  CONSUMPTION m  cAIT
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALET)      355.0       495.0     600.0             995.5                   1122.8
POPUIATIO  AM VITAL STATI0S
POPULATIONH.ID-YEAM (CTOUSANDS)   15754.0    21266.0    26965.0
URBN POPULATION C2 OPr TOTAL)      48.2        59.8       64.9             66.5                     466.
POPUIATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAI 200O (HILL)                          37.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            61.7
POPULATION MIEWICt                                       1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                       13.8       1 .7       23.2             35.7                     82.9
PER SQ. KM. ACR . LAND           45.0        60.7       sz.4             92.4                    158.9
PUOULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YES                         46.6       46.Z        36.2            39.9                     31.6
15-64 YRS                        50.3       S.1        60.3             56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                      2.9         Z.8        3.4              *.1                      7.1
POPULATION CRoWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              3.3        3.0        Z.0              2.4                      1.6
URBA                              5.7         5.2        2.7              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE SIRTH RATE (reR THOUS)       47.2        33.8       26.9             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PMR TURUS)        17.4        9.7        7.4              8.1                      8.8
CROSS REODUCTION RATe               3.1         2.3        1.3              2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANilNG
ACCErTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)                   115.4      192.8
USERS (X UV lMARIED  OME)                      ..       49.0             40.3
INEX oF PFO   ROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      100.0       99.0      124.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPmY Of
CALOiES (C Or REQUIlREnTS)        96.0       61.0      106.0            110.6                    128.6
PRTEINS (tCANS rPE SAT)          54.0        46.0       55.0             67.3                     89.7
OP UHICN ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0       24.0       25.0 /c          34.1                     34.5
CHILD (AcES 1-4) DEATH RATE         11.2        6.0        4.0              5.7                      5.2
mLTA
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TlARS)      53.1        56.9       63.7             64.7                     67.4
INFANT NORT. RATE CPEE THOUS)      93.4        70.6       53.9             60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE hATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                             30.0 la    63.0       64.0 /d          65.4
URBAN                            54.9 7;    86.0        73.0 7           78.1
RURAL                             6.8 a/     28.0       46.0 77          46.2
ACCESS TO ESCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ''       47.0        4.14 /d         52.9
URBN                               ..        75.0       60.0 7           67.0
kURAL                              ''         8.0       14.o 7           24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAX         Z640.0      2330.0     1710.0 /f        1917.7                   1065.8
POP. PEN NURSING PERSON          4220.0 A    730.0       60.0 77          615.8                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL MD
TOTAL                            360.0      *50.0      580.0 /t         367.2                    326.3
URN                                ..       30.0       490.077          411.5                    201.5
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..           2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..        22.9       29.8 /c          27.3                     20.0
AVERACE SIZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               -         5.7 /h
URBN                               ..         s.s 7;      .
RURAL                              ..         5.9/b
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.8/ h
UB                                 ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..         2.47i
ACCeSS TO ELECT. (Z OF IELLINGSM
TOTAL                             47.0 /l    58.1 hb
DUEA                             B3.0        8 97.5 W
RURAL                             a. o77    13.2 7W



4 qAnnex 1
TADLZ 30                               Page 2 of 5
XOW                     mcc-=  25' N) lb
e9      5    1     o:Rs    E             Tm
1=  ~~~~~~~~~~~W=  3~~n=N=rmmN= -=
1i*zla     Tom.                  7.0       16.0      2:0.0            LOS.-                   101.2
3U           n         77.0      10.0       23.0            *0.3                    105.3
iing.Z                77.0       13.0       13.             104.5                     67
itconZKs a   .                   U.0        M0        45.0            43.2                     3.1
U3.O       MO0        5.0            .3                     a.9
Pzw=              U.0        24.0       31.0              4.3                   5l.0
0C46 a   or su0oa.5    aL2    2s.5 A                                     33.                      L
lmxmmM5                                     30.l0      3.0             30.1                     Mr.
SECOL1 U.0                                 17.0       21.0            16.5                    20.5
AD    LIA  X=3  CZ)               62.5        0.0 U     50               79.3                    75.
14U  cmml-            Mr           5.7        2uz2      it   /c          440                     567
3m    _IUW                        123.1      204.3      1153            2256                    L'.9
v  EN    .- 3r *.5                 36.1       9.9             107.2                   123.6
DF     mm 10W92cU                SO0      13.7        30.2 n           3                      9L3
c     R                            .          ..        z.              2.5                     2.9
=L: U.AU 1C rL )                4 0         6333.0     9290.0
1Y2i  icg                        29.z       24.        26.7            23.2                    34.3
A 'U12U2 r I)I                   5L.4       37.9       25              3135                    40.7
=   C   )                        19.2   210    214                     23Ms                    23.3
.Cm  210.~                     *'30.0       29.9       34.1            32.2                    42.9
WhIZ                             45.5       63.1       314             49.3                   -!.7
uLZ                              U.5        14.5       1.              15.2                    31.0
-   lICm   B3D                     1.7          -        S2               1>                      O.9
C   w        M           a_z/ak   31.31n
9zc2T2  or UO         -f- 677.1 77  _               _       __ -o
zu=      Q =    t or  a          2.1         3.57        .
-? 4A  or           36            6.5       10.1 W..
- -
zwnnm um ISZ= PImXTDC
1UL. CSS af
24 _0c  Z Z 5__
NUAL                      .~.        _.      197.0 7         154.0
lKlu  (CS IPM CarPT)
- _.2                                                 267.0 /c        522.,
inUL                              ..         ..        2.0 77         372.4
lown7T MMCU  LKIM CZ)
U                                  ..         _        34.0 Ic
__ T AV*IL*ZLC
r AmXCAZ
1S0 T 9 S
/a  The grep avocrqi  for each ludictata ame pmuamai4   azftbm.1c nae. Coveasige of coqmtrlesaa -g the
lndicatoz  japinis an uallabltqy of daa an te   mm.
/b  UnLa*eahecm, *rta  'Data fer 1fl` raeer to oc ye a Ia        1939 and 2941; ctC for 1970- betaee 1969 a4
1971: Id data fDr -most hacet Iat1a  ba        900  d 19W2
/c  1977; /d 1976: /a 1964; If 17; L  62; lb 1,73; 11 1979; n lacladlm   cher tralulng at cbe th&td lewl;
1k Zcca..1.cally actlwa p1ap loa.
SM. 1964



-25-                                                                      Annex I
Page 3 of 5
C9 4 -. - - 9.9- 44499444 *-l 9 - 4-4-194.4.9 - 4.144419. 99 414 *84 - 44944 444 f.9* -. - - 44C.9449941.
           e    .g      ...   .eaefl    .....14 24-       ..r.        -   99*1.9       fl.. 44 9411441349 1.9**.  49 4414.-.    41.94.   4.3
41.9 .9-4 44 4.S4hIa. 2.949494 *.a. -              94 4. ....... 49449 44....4. --
-.         ..4-4.4 4.4- 49                        ,*. -              a.., .    .9 *l*4- 4*e 14.4-.. -               *. a 144
-  9..--.. 19444       *4         -  444...49:.9 444.44.4 .911.449:. -a  4- 4-4 .441- -   .-..4. .... -   ......-. - .
.9.4- 4- 949* *.9 .4- .-:---.  44.4... 4.9  ...9    9 *.4-9444     4 -- 11149494 4..- - 944 .4.4t.I.,,. 14 449* .  4*           Ar..
* -  ....                                                                        *-..4 .,4
-. .14. -4.                                                                  ..-.:....9 -  ..-.. *49*. - ..4.=l.4 4. .99-h ** 41.49-.-
---4.  -  -.9-                    .4..9.
-  -. *-..                                                                    4.9-4.:..                          4.4
-.4..--.-. -4 -  .4.-4-.*-44....-...'.49*--*..444-.-.-9-44:-.*4-
.94....                  444I44.49 *4.94. .
-                                                                    .. - ...  -  94-... -                  4..... I. 44 *91..4 4431. ..l -9.4
-ar     - -- --* ----** - -. --                                                 - - - 4444..-.4.594.* *.
4944-4-ft. ..  -   - 4r41. 44 .4*4-.  -    4 -  - ..*.. -  449                        **.4l* -.  4.4444. - . - -.            44494-.9 -. .4.94.949 -
a..4..   .1.1.91.     4- .:: ...   14 . . .,.. ...444 949  9. -4.                994119- 5 *414.      .*  4U4  *49.t,.94..
*. - -, .e..                                                                      1444*4-41.           - 444                     4 .4 -
** 4199;49.49  9144.49 *.l   - -' *4. *. 9.1 i94*-4. 4- .443                 9944
- *94. 49 ...4.19 4-- -. -444..9l - 949.4 -.*0 -
4*94..449   9159    -  .94   --  -   9.9        44.l.I.. - -*                       .44 5.944 4444   1.*  4 ..9.. -  *4-  .9? -           - 1494a. 4
a     ..  .  *.-4.           491 4.9..                                            .49 49...94.t4 4- s4.94944  949944t.
     .-44                                                                        -  -  -   -.  - .-.4 .91.4 - .4    -
944.51    14.I4. 0          494 '.911 4491.41?. 4- l.44l.t                      4-9W4  14*444414499.    *  9  ...ta  el*449U4-t 4991.9.944 149
*44.   flt1    4994   949  .9t49&l ,                   .                              41  .4a.
1l9. ...   -           9*99914        .194                          49* 4 '1.                   4-.*14        91  49-9  4- 9.94 -
44C* 5490 :...1. a 4.. :tl* 9 4..4 *.42-. .. ',. 1.9.449.0 , -9..4 .49144 .-.9...l- *.949.49
.*. 14 * 4 **9.49 1.4-. ...1* .. 4.9Z .  a ..9.: . :... ....e:44:.
4.   :..4 a. 44.      4.9.94.44    490 .444. .4.4 a., 1a1
   .294.  laS    - ..9:...49  .49'                                           -444..        -49- *:.9 -      ....*  - .., :.   4, 449.. -   .. -
....94    4949.    94994 4. .494-. 4- 4.91..44                                    .4** 94.4 **..4944 . - ..l49..4 .944 4 4.149 .4.4.9444  9f
-        ..    -.  ...        -  .... S. .:           ..  -  .44                    ..  49. **449*4 .*..9t   449.:          .4-4.4  5 9.9.494
h4l...499.S444.4.*4944fl                                                           *le:..
I.. - .**.. 944- .. :44.-..- .4.- -
..9.-44.                            944.
l.49.4*tI. 4.h. -  -  49.4.4.                                                      .-.-.4 a ......44 .44.4-                                      -
.9.4 pS4aL4 949 9444-  .91.         *      .                                    *...    -. -..  .. ....-49..4     .4.* ..-.:.
*s.9Z4914. 9     4. .949-9  - .9-9 - 4.94*. p9.94 **44. .* *9444                     *9.4.*.4..4 I. 494.4. S*l. -. .449-4.4. .9
a.,  .,n..   a,-..  -   ....j                                                    ...*4. a. 4.49.1.4        I *4..4    .4.949  44
.4.a  99  44.4 .4.. .4444    - .9-4  .   44.4.944.           -* 4449                 -. a                      P 9494.9      -. -  -  4-4.44 44.94-
-       41.              - -   492   94.                                            ...449:94    4*944 .3   *ft.
.90 14.94 4.94 '9 **   - 4.4-4 --  -. .-     .9 44***49                         l 4.9.5.4.. *44* *....  ..1. - 94 .9t94  P. 4944*9499
441. ... .4"-. a         9 .r..                                                 4o141 4-149 449           94a.14.93.  .49:44.. ..l1..et  1 .-..a....
49.994           -   . h..4.4. -.  .4 49*                4.       44                  . *..1         *. ...4      l4 .494144 -. 44     a   24 491199.
-r .a. .91            --   .. a  .090-a. 9.44.4.   -4-. 29.9                      *..44... -l.4..fl..449 *99 44-9 4...4..g- .44F   1-4 #4. 9-94-
949-. a... tn-e    4-44  444444    *h .*                                    -49.149944 .  414. .I.-44  -144444   *9..    4*-4 .4*
.497.                                                                               4-14.49944 --   .99591. 94-49hL4 4949949 -.
*014 .1144 - 4.9994- 4.4.4  '94*   -              .        .9 ..-.r                  ., -  .a.:. It I. **. -  :.   4..  4
- bSn........              .04-44 - 4-4-.          9 994-544                           494.49 4944      -. aI.. ..         - ..-9-. -    4--. .9
9:9* 4.4 4491.4 9.9 a,. 1..1.41 .4a .. 494.-I. ..e -
444114 *ta..l.  - .9... 4.9.-4.. 49  .94.4    -           .4 449.4.4                   -.
4t491'94 0 - .99- - .4.0 .
a.99149 -v .44 .9 *..499- *. 4.. 449.449 -.   -     .9                           ha
9fh1d.4                .-. :.          *4-44. * .....   . -                      9...: .-  9.   - .4.-..-.*., - 9....-.:,. -. *-   . - - a... ...
**.9 49   9  -.   *14.44f94- 4 .-..4. ..49944 .9-
-   a   fl.S                                                                             .9.9..:.. -         ... nrc...-
______________________                                      -494                    *...:.4... ...494.                       -..94.* 4.4.:
.041 94-444999444* .. 4-                *-.1.' - ..4*-09 -   -                         -  94.--.  .        1494. 4 44'4.  44S94 .99.g -
94- 144 - -  4.449         *4.I*.  ..a., -a.. 4.49 9.4.9* .     ..i                ...*   . ,.        .4 . -4S ,9        *994  t4 .44      1.9.
.4-9'S  104- .9 .44a9 .  4.4. a  t*.. 4-  .4..-.             ..t                 .. 9 4. 444   .149  *9.          . 4449        4--49-9 44 *44
9.9944   9.4a ..9.4i.  a..9                    a .  *99 1                          ..'.        ... ....... - .49.- ..... . ..-.. ....
- fl ala - .994. a.9. .4.1.44. '14. 494 .49
4-                                                                                4494.9.,49 4  494.449..4         ..I*  144 '01. - 94449.43494.. -
9.9,1*t.tg. .9 .44.9149 44-.9 .9 -..t99.. -              I..-                             -       94944.4 -  **.   .4.    P019 1.449 9.994 -
W       14- 9    9          1       lZ.          99 p49 .44144949                          - 9..I.   .    14-c.    449*   - 4.3           W9l .919.
.1.94          h1   91..         919 r-.a-. 4.r.  a                              .4-...  . -   .9,.....            401 -  '1.14 9.444914-1.9 44944
4. 49.91.. -. *9444* ...1 -  .. 441 4-. ad                  .49:-.    4*9444 *949.94*44 44    4.*44949  544 -  -4-  94.4
j.e1.9   4.49 t.4  -     aI           494- .. *4l491.. .9.    .,94-                 . ...,a    ... 994  ..flal
---.449*4-44  - -  -     - 4994444.4 4. 9  4.44445                               .9-ag. 9-4.4.-494 **14 . =94 49 44.4*49449 44449 . ..* 41 444 4.49
14.l99 -  4-lit ..t    ...c..t  494449.    * .414*                                   .99.144 4- 34344444.4        4194 9144949.
- 4I4.919*44 .  .44 444.44 -45....q 4-
a        44 :4.9.. :9.1414. 94.94    .99 49                                     *r   4949454495w
-9 -.9594 ...4fl9 .9 49494.   -  -  4494.          94-444 49 944 .h194                                 :..    *..... *. *..    a..., .  .. .a 14 *1.* I
o  .U. a 44 99    .   9 944-19 -9 9494 54 4491.94 -           .  9                 99.4.9 49.9Sf r199.499. 9.44.99 .i 149.449  44 4-944.4 .4 94994.9 .9
*                            .        9.. .13 ..... 4-441101 4. - a  *44fl  *. 44.14-                                 14..
t .9 .1*9049 .4(41 494.444 994.9 .44 1* Ca .9 ..9.
44144 .4.. - as.. :'. g.e 94-.. .949544: 49.4.1.. -.                             4.. 9.9  4-Wfl
.4. :9  91.9 Ila .9   9   .9 *... 99.9.4.    fl 410                                                        *99    .94. a *...... :4.9:4. 4-
- 441494 .9444.44 - -    9   P..    059. .9.94944 - 9944 9.                         ..*  - '4.t.9.9.h .944  ...414..1. 44* .4.
944944.9:.     905.:  .9:494.  494 .94 .149 44.4.                                 449.9..5 4944..9.4 94.9944 490  4493  45 -.  49.       91.4 44. -.94: -
-  '9-.1.. 994.444 ..WI     494445 4- 44144 - 99.9494 4-919 a                        *44*l.44 3449949  -a   ..1  34      ..   :...I 4.944 414.
4.914-  44 49144.1    -.      .9-1.4  4...  941-tS, .491.45 .1.4.                 4449?194449t9 a4.49. 4441 *L.1 494-9543 449.444- 9.944944-44 94a.
P                           1414.                                                                               .*f..4..I4.
494444 49- - -.4 .fl  ..    . a*  .                 .99  .4-a                    9.4 1.99.4 944.9 4.9 9.4.91. 94440 4.9  141 -  4944  *9%4.4 -  .*94 -
4- 44.99 1.  94. 14 .9 Ia. 44 4444 4-414-.    4149 01449449                         94 944.9449-9
4  4494 491     -  519. *.944a.. Ia.. - .19    1441 4994.                     494.4-1 44.0 a  49 .094-9.  14- 4.93 14 4.914- 4944 914 9444
.44.1 .194 9449494. 449 444-9 .444 49 14449 4. .9-9 .444..
*.-.44499.9.L4944914:.9-*..444. 944444 449 4494.94 49444'
C  94449949. 49  44  444.4. - 44-C  .a9  .4 4494 .4  j4 .4044449                   .4. . ....9-9.49  - 9...9:4.4   .4.  4. ..-.: .    44441441.94
a 94s491.- .41 .44:4494.
444. 144-449 -         .44. 449444 .991.    494 . -. 44.4.
4.4.4 4.44. 44-4 44-449.1-4.9' - 94949 4'49 
49 4..914  44444, .94-. 444 4.94.4 4.91 5444444494 49....  . 4444                                                4.9.99* .44:4.44 ...4 4... 4.
44 44  44494444 4944.4 4494494   494 49  9444. 4..                                                                         4*    .9, *49'-:444 *44f444494!
4. 4-4. 444449 9149 4444 9944491.4 4.919414. 4991-.44  444                                                               9..   a.
4.919449 44154) 4419-4-4.9 .441 444999444 44449544. 4 44
.9444 an 4 4494459   49444 - 994-4449 14.4.4. 4- 4444 9444 rIO 449494
4944 9 - 449 49 .4-444 - 14444 41411. 9.4.4-4.4 944- .4
94  .9144          .4 4.    4449  1 4444. 9441449444914094 4491
4444., 44 4941444 1.9 **4 04..
44.44.149449494 44.4 49;'444.4.9 49 .044.4441 . 94941 494.9 444 .494:
44 9.4914  1494.. 994-     440444 449.4. 49 4.4494 4449.44. 49
4-444944...14..14.....Ia.4- 14.444444444494:
.4 4411494149    43.901. 494.4.444-1 444-4-1.
- 049 49-O   9  IS 541 9949144
434.4- lealIsa.



- a *A 4
_____" -    - am
-*_   w wpm_ AP 44 =M    _   P  --_    _ fi
*=WP VW. _~ _ .,          fc      f _                     . P VW                   am  _-
WI    amE       %1                                                  S
or,    or                                           c a         nin d
L9V?    WYg     WZ                                  a)    C-   -  ~
cry     a,      nea) 
1~~~~~~ U
rc~   ~ ac z       -      F9                                            5      
.-~~~~~~m
ri  CC     c-~i    c-i      VI -,2m-uvt
a-c-     .-  F-         rc      all                                    C-)       C.)
01      sv     irl      1r      z19                                         _no
Z'     VI       ai      V       r- _ 
cu      nui    a-,      c-a     Vs
6w    VW    am      -~    JIm      VWi    I' 051ZU                                    n"d=     o
lu      g-    a-on    STUn  tnLI    vim  rc            rm as cV                      _           p = e
I  T"    C-r           rI&    ra      c         m      t1z     ea               0        nm            -ne s
v-I  aw        -nra cIC          n    rim      rag    Wm       c-      c-in                 - 
jmm uDmmnin
P1W0   PU1 A asa  C             aim     am so   L       Om      SmW     t
am  ru    c-ro    ruS    c-c      z     VIu    r-    WI               IN'%     WI-   151                    am
ru   maW rn-                                rs  c-U c-*    CD   _-u-                            -
610~~ ~ ~       ra l        I*    a        i             t       laNpw
am       =    a       am vaaxoux     c-rn    -rn    c   ri  c-iYi51-    Cu )mm                                   m
Wu     I-n    ri    cmu   IrA        -      r-i-    ri     -              zwaou           s  au
cm    Dv      ru    I-f      cm      -      cim    C-      -              us              A            ama -f
f.      9.     fW-    ri..   s flL                  c-I
W      im- rsL   ra-   -rA   rsL   sos  VT                           _                           .Il
am      m     cm    ram      arn   Wm       WI    T'  _
ml  Ua  -3!    hm  r          -    w h iR
0)      z       P      n
~~~~~~~l                 m     om      ru   nz       9e      rw.    Gl    IW        aws                 dho   twop  one,
211  ZS1       itI  cu    aml   c-u  ro            c-K    c-      VI    asV   _M         u,1 
cii    rif    c-             VW      iN     C-a    III    a-c    9t    or*    "V9    Sam I                 so1 PM Wo p om
re    rn       C      a rurI                                       rE V  sd fe f I'Sf  li        s UVso VW  p
Su     aur    Vm      Iuria    c-u    SWu    ci            c-i    c-c   ima              amu    a"=um    e
6-u    r               v      -      rm     Wu    c-        s     s      a                Wu    ur             _
rc-    rzT    c-b   i-1       -Zv    ars    ir.   z-c  U-         a-       _     g%g      mi i
se s                             a,      c      Ts     rs     r      amz  g,                    n    r     r         M
n    9-c       -K    iK      c       gm     ru     6-I    c-      Z's   09       aim    tWm in   _a
m   c-e  Xs  un  em  cm  IL  i-
Wm                      - 1 m  cm  Wm    am-:_  _RU 
(MBW V~ 3q  - -(a---PT  -
F  on         _   D
a     -    O)    mump
_   z_



Lw-
I'G    1;     I'D 1  rl   10       I'D            t-0   11         _        3_ vwmw~m
one    I    - Hi
re     10     t~ we    VI    gm    gm       u    c-0     ia                     i  an uowg
10   fa    ye               ro     rso   *r       ia     *,0    s 
*W     c-     Ca    ru    3    VW    c-i    ric    lw                         i10%mpam   m=
ru     s-W    c-a           r           c  s-u    r  ru    rC       Q        t cm       mm  mI
S)   am)  am) er5    Wu               )o   am    (I'U   Cr5)
a-Li)  (A)  ca)  (ra)  el-    WUJ   CM)  ai    Q=)  ()
9lw   zEa    *-i    AU    El"    (U        iW     ci    O-s          (-)  M -  F  m         
Wu] 0li)  CCU)   WUi)  (VW   0W0    (W) <li    CVU)
a-&)   Cr0)   Wm    (Ca    WAi)  LWn   cs-         ")   cw                               Tp9
VOK   0a-    co    ruX    WL    C-L    i's    cA          L   vt             - now  - ano   O
CZi    VI    91      CIZ    Cl      VI    31      31     ,Z                         do  -   nf
s-f    9'!    9o    in0    CI    016    sc        gm     cou                         ami.- w
Pro wo sp sinoin    no 
is    s0      la           o      40      f      912    at                       35om ___ _ _
la            Es    in      A 1    cm      08   ff       Az                -sl       v
cr   mt   art          I   ca    gcar a                  mc                               
1 ~~~~as   Owl   CaC   m               In             n                               gnn
C1WU  cc"   (m1)  (at0)  W01)  cmil)  (1')    1   (E1)1)
CM)   CM)                  cm     C M)           an    f)                                  la
(}) til)  a          tO)   cm)   MD  t2iL   (WI)  cl og
U4-E   1W      Wi'   Cit OWt   0(31   (L    E1   9!Pp
1 = Y  d |-Z  IK'Z   CM     U2<l Dat   lul _r            ar                1n
Iw"    mcl  uwlv  TX"    wl   aW7   us-            mi   Vzt               -mo   -    ~ w
(Gm)   Cig)   an)   (Ka    MT)  (53    (10l   (Z)  (c)                *om
(0)  h)    =(i)    (3)    (m       CID   (L)    co         )                         2    1
(ir    01   am0   NO)   cm          (2    i t    cl
agi t0    (b    MOI 00   C t             )     WJ    (6L 02 elmm
aJI   CID   (UV    t(I)            (9)    (1)    Ct)    Ct)                      _        0 -
(-3    (-)    (-)    1-)    (-)    4-)    I-3    (-)    (-) 3
aU    0ZU)   (6)    UV    (51)   (ii    WV)    or)   (0)                                 11U
eV    Cs      gi   is    is    sz          c      n      IL                             1-_l( P
owl   sm      a rt   zo    4a       LEC  fe       AK    gm           -I JD CM- P  =MD
call  son    aw  60% rO          n    eg% m'   E"           cn      o w          zgzcopi   smm                    vmam   r _-
w      WY    -         -     -      -       --                                                      pe-
is  _'l    mu      gmN    1Wt   91   1W        _s    _i   1W        o        c     i               '~      -
-      C-      0-    s        g      la     K-    51       0      1      sr,      -                              -Q
=~~~~~U~           CnI       )   tv  }  1lt-) O        CM-)   a-)   CIT-)  a el-)   CD                         m_  aogda
WM   CC"   am          CIOO)    mi) (1)  (AU)   ela   am)    Mai)    u)   ("el   @D)                        _        _
iWs    tWin    0       O    O I   can 2D          us          a         ax     1                       (A) _     --g P
C            4m      ma      m             Is             a      IV            a eK u                                   =       go
laz  la- I~.~ ut    VW               i                     oir    IL     at     U!ftw~
0-     sl-  A;  t1K E -                      tlES                 M-   1  IF_-                               -
GK%setW  AwS           m's  VW%   1W'%   "VIC  .rwc   uvlt  1w!z  iW!   alvi   EWi'               -WWj amp    Po SPR j
=I t   sal   Sol                         WV     M    at   git _"    so    r OU  Amm~P
="a~~~~~~~~
m  tO  01   O         ~   go                           tintam1Jmi   .in
-  LZtOt-us) mmu



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A. STATENK1T OF MAUK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of March 31, 1984)
(USsnillion)
Loan                                                          Amount (less Cancellation)
Number Year  Borrower                         Purpose          Bank  lDA   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                  1,406.1  23.5 I/   -
1163    1975  Colombia                        Agriculture       21.0              4.6
1352    1977  Colombia                        Rural Dev.        52.0              5.3
1357    1977  Banco dc la Republica           Agricultural Cr. 64.0               1.1
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional dc
Telecomunicaciones            Co.unications    58.3             25.5
1471    1977  Colombia                        Eighways          90.0              7.3
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition         25.0              8.1
1558    1978  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            24.8            11.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A. Pbwer              126.0             20.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Power             50.0             11.2
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena         Export           15.0             4.5
1624    1979  Colombia                        Airports          61.0              1.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power              84.0             2.0
1694    1979  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            13.5            10.1
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply      27.9              3.8
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power              72.0             35.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fnmento
Municipal                    Water Supply       31.0            23.6
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria              Agriculture Cr.  20.0              12.7
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A.  SrATENIT OP BUM LoANS AND ID  CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984)
Number Year Borroer                           Purpose          Bank   ID    Undisbursed
1807    1980 Empresa de Energia Electrfica
de Bogota                    Pbwer              87.0            49.3
1825    1980 Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    64.0              11.3
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.   32.0               2.2
1857    1980 Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.  150.0             85.9
1868    1980 Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power              125.0             87.4
1953    1981 Eapresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               85.0            75.3
1966    1981  Colombia                        Rural Roads       33.0            18.2
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                   Irrigation         37.0            25.3
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica              Power              36.0            26.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power             359.0           294.3
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Ftedio      Watershed
kmbiente                     ranagement          9.0             7.8
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways           77.0            77.0
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional            Highways          152.3           139.4
2174    1982  Colombia                        Rural Develop-
ment            53.0            52.2
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerfo de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0             13.3
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano            Agricultural
Agropecuario                   Research         63.6            62.7
232491/  1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.    Coal
Exploration      9.5             9.5
23791/  1984  Colombia                        Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0            40.0
23012/  1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0           170.0
TODAL                                          3,818.8  23.5
Of vhich has been repaid                         837.5   4.1
Total now outstanding                          2,981.3  19.4
Amount sold                          51.0          -
Of which has been repaid            51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and ITM                 2,981.3  19.8
- _
Total undisbursed                                              1,435.8
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ Not yet signed.



- 30-
Annex 1I
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMKET OF IFC INVKSTMKNTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                         Type of            Amount in USS Million
Year                  Obligor                  Business            Loan  Equity   Total
1959         TLinas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board         .50              .50
1960-1965     Industries Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                   Food products       1.98    .08     2.06
1961          Envases Colombianos, S.A.        Metal cans          .70      -       .70
1961-1968     Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                  Rome furniture       .08   .09       .17
1961          Electromanufacturas, S.A.        Electrical equipment .50     -       .50
1962          Corporacion Financiera           Development
Colombiana                      financing           -  2.02      2.02
1962-1963     Corporacion Financiera           Development
Nacional                        financlng           -  2.04      2.04
1963-1967     Campania Colombiana de           Textiles           1.98   .15       2.13
1968-1969       Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970     Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Caldas                          financing           -    .81      .81
1964-1968     Forjas de Colombia, S.A.         Steel forging         -   1.27      1.27
1966          Almacenes Generales de           Warehousing        1.00      -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966          Industria Ganadera               Livestock          1.00   .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74    EUA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles           5.00  2.61       7.61
1969          Campanla de Desarrollo de        Tourism               -    .01       .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISNO)
1969-1973     Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Norte                           financing          -    .45       .45
1969          Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Valle                           financing           -    .43      .43
1970          Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism             .23   .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977     Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism             .80   .24       1.04
1973-1975     Corporacion Colombiana de        Housing               -    .46       .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974          Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement             1.50      -      1.50
1975          Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cesent             3.60      -      3.60
:.976         Las Brises                      Mining              6.00      -      6.00
1977          Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.         Utilities          13.00  2.00    15.00
1977          Campania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                            Construction
Material        0.97   1.76      2.73



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B.  STATENPMT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Narch 31, 1984) (Continued)
Fiscal                                           Type of              Amount in USS Million
Year                   Obligor                   Business             Loan  !qustZ   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                   Leasing              9.00    .17       9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.        Chemicals sad
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86      16.01
1983           Frigorificos Coloubianos, S.A.  Food Processing        1.00   0.54       1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.            Cement and
Construction
Material        21.91  5.00      26.91
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.          Mining              10.65  1.64      12.29
Total Gross Commitments                               93.55  26.32    119.87
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repaymuents and sales                       62.28   9.60     71.88
Total commitments noV held by IFC                     31.27  16.72     47.99
Total undisbursed (including                          33.56   7.06     40.62
participants)                                       -                 -



- 32 -
ANNEX III
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method
Project Element                         ICR      LCB     Other    Total Cost
Equipment and materials                15.7      0.3      -           16.0
including pipes                    (10.1)    (0.2)     -          (10.3)
Civil Works                            10.4      4.0      -           14.4
(3.1)    (1.2)     -          (4.3)
Consulting services                    -         -        2.4         2.4
and training                                           (0.7)        (0.7)
TOTAL                                26.1      4.3      2.4         32.8
(13.2)    (1.4)    (0.7)      (15.3)
Limits on Type of Procurement and Prior Review Thresholds
CUSS '000)
Type of         Prior Review        Contract    Aggregate       Type of
Contract           Liuit             Review        Limit      Procurement
Goods               100              V50             -        ICB
I 50           300       LCB with foreign
bidders having
the opportunity
to participate.
Clvil Works         500             W5s00            -        ICB
100  -  500          3000       LCB with foreign
bidders having
the opportunity
to participate.
<100           1500       Price quotations
from at least
three qualified
local bidders.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:             Two years
(b) Agency which prepared project:             Empresas Nunicipales de
Cucuta and Consultants
(c) First presentation to Bank:                September 1983
(d) First mission to review project:           September 1983
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:           November 1983
(f) Completion of Negotiations:                May 1984
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:             September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Special assurances were obtained and agreements reached that:
(a) EMC would enter into arrangements in order to obtain additional
financial resources in the amount of Col$600,000,000; and that the
Government would take the necessary actions to enable EMC to secure
these additional financial resources (para. 54);
(b% the Government would provide to the Borrower in a timely manner an
amount of not less than Col$800 million in the form of budgetary
contributions (para. 54);
(c) EMC would maintain the Project Coordination Office under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers (para. 55);
(d) EMC would furnish to the Bank before March 31, 1985 a program for the
construction of the sewerage networks to be built under the project
(para. 56);



- 34 -
AIR= IV
Page 2 of 2
(e) EEC would furnish to the Bank before June 30, 1985 the final design
for a waste water stabilization lagoon and would purchase before
December 31, 1986 the land required for its construction (para. 56);
(f) on the annual return to be earned between 1985 and 1990 (and there-
after) on EMC annually revalued fixed assets through increases in
water and sewerage rates (para. 63);
(g) on the revenues to be produced annually in EMC operations other than
water supply and sewerage (para. 63);
(h) on the debt service coverage and the limitation of capital investment
to be undertaken by EHC (para. 64); and
(i) EHC collection arrears would be reduced to an amount not exceeding two
and a haVL times monthly sales (para. 65).
2. A condition of effectiveness would be the employment by EMC of consultants
to assist EMC in project administration and construction supervision (para.
55).
I



VENEZUELA ,
IL
C O L G MA -3 1 A_
ECUADOR   ?  v                  !
- -AZIL
PERU    ~.               a~                    ~
74 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -
J urnomg S                                                   R. ,,J
-,- ~~~~  1   -- - ~~~~~                         -CIOAP                   
Ain.                                     .-             -
Elrc  ~         Wre Ma, --   8uIu _____'
*         *0     t                             Raocha.o-                     Ro    Outgas d ink-up A-
*z        X      Phaipi  Sitias-                                          -   .u'
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1zg   2X.d -
.C,LoMETES_s         !         2



IBRD 181
10                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 19t!
Ccua\ VENEZUELA
BSogoat
>Q..~                        _  ,w,                     ,           ~~rR//COLOMBIA                                  -
-BRAZIL
PERU                                                                                                                            W
.1'I~~~~~~A
*      *   R- R                                                               B       D
m Dv~                                                                                       P..oi-oa R-                            COLOMBIA
-0.                                                     ~~~~~~~CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY
__i-   __c  ae                                                       iwt-pAo                                          AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
*        Reserotmrs                                           Roads Outsed Bumlr.up Areas
*   *    Pipingm Stations--                                    Rn..rs
----- Zulio River Aaedu                               --    lnrmaional Boundes 
KLtOME-ERS .       1       2       3        i-
KIOMTRS_________________  ~         .. ,.         *.-                          .



IIOD
COLOMBIA
CUCUTA WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJEC
a;~~~ J./.                                                                             ________._____
oo  SEWERAGE SYSTEM     '          -            g       - -                             C O L o fi   I A M
8    l  a           w                   ,',   -STOR~~~~~~~~M DRAINAGE SX ._M    r_
b/I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;   -__ Dned tw* S- J:Lw-              *t {                  _d Clwd f-w-     ECUADOR    C      V  I
$SEWEAG  SYSEMq                                                                       COLOMiJ    c.I
P-cc E_c                              B1~                  1|1                                       RAZIL
wI  L. ,...                                               .A
.        - . P- -W -                                                                      RX
=1             A,h._ess4v                                       _                            PEI7 ji BRZ



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.
i  INI  I






