Page  1
December 19, 2000
H.E.  Keat Chhon
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Re:
Japanese Grant for Cambodia Land Management and Administration 
Project (IDA-executed component)
Grant Number. TF026544
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding Two Hundred and Fifty Six Thousand Nine Hundred 
United States dollars (US$256,900) (the Grant) to the Kingdom of Cambodia (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry 
out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions. 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Country Director, Cambodia
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon
Senior Minister, Minister of Economy and Finance
Date:
January 4, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of a proposed Land 
Management and Administration Project (the Project), which has as main objective: land 
tenure security, increased efficiency in land markets, improved access of local 
communities to common property resources and improved valuation services in support of 
local revenue generation and decentralization.  The activities (the Activities) for 
which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Development of a Comprehensive Land Policy Framework (US$211,500). 
Development of a comprehensive land policy framework to determine what the key land 
Page  2
issues are and how to address them, including studies and analysis on the social and 
environmental impact of the Project, and identification of mitigation measures as 
needed to ensure consistency with Bank safeguard policies. This component would also 
include technical workshops and high level seminars to build consensus among key 
stakeholders on appropriate broad actions to address the land issues.
(b)
Preparation of TORs for Studies in Land Policies, Laws and Regulations 
(US$45,400).  Preparation of terms of reference for detailed reviews of policies and 
related laws and regulations, including preparation of implementing regulations for a 
new land law and a decree on systematic land registration, and preparation of terms of 
reference for studies to be undertaken to build national consensus among all 
stakeholders including government, civil society, NGOs. 
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and workshops, up to 
$26,500.00 required for the activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  
The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as 
a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the IDA may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  
After the Closing Date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by IDA (after consultation with the 
Recipient), by the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of Cambodia on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended. 
IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) IDA 
has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its 
support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s 
assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines).
