                      Report No. 51921-KH   \
The Inspection Panel
                             ~




  Report and Recommendation




 Cambodia: Land Management and
     Administration Project
     (Credit No. 3650 - KH)


         December 2,2009
                                  The Inspection Panel



                          Report and Recommendation



                               Request for Inspection


                          Re: Request for Inspection
    Cambodia: Land Management and Administration Project (Credit No. 3650 - KH)


A. Background

     1. On September 4, 2009 the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection from the
        Center for Housing Rights and Evictions (COHRE), which submitted the Request on
        behalf o f communities affected by the Cambodia: Land Management and
        Administration Project (the "Project"). These communities are situated in the Boeung
        Kak lake (BKL) area, within the Sras Chok commune, Daun Penh district in Phnom
        Penh. The Requesters state that members o f the Project affected communities have
        suffered serious harm from the design and implementation o f the Project and claim that
        these issues need to be urgently addressed because further, severe harm may be caused
        in the very near future. The Requesters have asked the Panel to keep the name o f
        affected people and villages where they live confidential.

     2. The Panel registered the Request for Inspection on September 24, 2009. Management
        submitted its Response to the Request on November 2,2009.

     3. This Report presents the Panel's determination o f whether the Request meets the
        eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution establishing the Panel and in the 1999
        Clarifications to the Resolution and includes the Panel's recommendation in relation to
        this Request.

B. The Project

    4. According to the Development Credit Agreement, the Project aims to assist the
       Borrower's "program o actions, objectives and policies designed to improve land
                            f
       tenure security and promote the development o eflcient land markets'' (the
                                                       f
          "Program.")' The Project's objectives are: "to assist the Borrower in its efforts to
          implement the Program, which includes (i) the development o adequate national
                                                                             f
          policies, a regulatory framework and institutions for land administration; (ii) the
          issuance and registration o titles in rural and urban areas in the Project Provinces;
                                       f
          and (iii) the establishment o an efficient and transparent land administration system."
                                       f
          The Project was designed as the first phase o f a long term program aimed at supporting
          good governance and greater access for the poor to basic social services and economic
          opportunitie~.~

      5. These objectives were to be achieved through five components: development o f land
         policy and regulatory framework (Part A o f the Project); institutional development (Part
         B); land titling program and development o f land registration system (Part C);
         strengthening mechanisms for dispute resolution (Part D) and land management (Part
         E). The land titling program under Part C o f the Project covered both urban and rural
         areas in eleven provinces and in the Municipality o f Phnom Penh. Particularly
         important in relation to the Request for Inspection are Parts C, D and E o f the Project.
         Part C was aimed at supporting the issuance o f land titles and the establishment o f an
         efficient and transparent land registration system. Part D was designed to strengthen
         the dispute resolution mechanisms, by building the capacity o f the National Cadastral
         Commission and providing support to the Cadastral Commissions at provincial levels.
         Under this component o f the Project, NGOs were to be contracted to provide legal
         assistance to poorest people in land disputes. Part E o f the Project provided for the
         preparation o f land use and classification maps through, inter alia, the definition o f
         procedures to classify the different types o f land and the preparation o f land
         classification maps for each provinces showing the boundaries o f the different classes
         o f lands.

      6. The Project was partially financed by an IDA Credit in an amount o f nineteen million
         three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,300,000), about US$ 23.4
         million equivalent. The Credit was approved by the Board o f Executive Directors in
         February 2002 and became effective in June 2002. The Closing Date was scheduled for
         December 31, 2009. However, on September 7 , 2009, the Government o f Cambodia
         cancelled the undisbursedbalance o f the Credit.

      7 . The Ministry o f Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction (MLMUPC)
          was responsible for Project implementation. A Project Management Office (PMO) was
          established within the MLMUPC. The Municipal Governors, within the Ministry o f
          Interior, were responsible for declaring the adjudication areas, i.e. the declaration that
          would launch the titling process.




 Development Credit Agreement (DCA) (Land Management and AdministrationProject) between Kingdom o f
Cambodia and International Development Association, dated March 27, 2002.
*DCA, Schedule 2 (Description o f the Project).
 Management Response to the Request for an Inspection Panel Review o f the Cambodia Land Management and
AdministrationProject (Management Response), October 30,2009, attached to this Report as Annex 1 .
                                                                                                1

                                                                                                          2
       8. Following a fiduciary review and an investigation o f the Bank's Institutional Integrity
          Department into 49 contracts in seven Bank-financed projects in Cambodia
          disbursements under the L M A P Project were suspended in June 2006. The suspension
          was lifted in February 2007. In December 2007, the Closing Date o f the Project was
          extended by two years based on implementation progress, especially in the area o f
          policy formulation; issuance o f titles (the target o f one million titles had been reached)
          and the establishment o f an Independent Procuring Agent was under negotiations. With
          the extension o f the Closing Date, the Project was also expanded, with funds from the
          Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), to three new Provinces.


C. The Request

       9. What follows i s a summary o f the Request for Inspection. The Request i s attached to
          this Report as Annex 14.

       10. Land Titles and Evictions The Requesters represent communities in the BKL area
           within the Sras Chok `commune' in Phnom Penh. According to the Request, following
           public notice that the commune area would become an adjudication zone for purposes
           o f land registration under the LMAP, the residents o f the BKL communities requested
           that their land claims be investigated, as provided for by the legal procedure developed
           under the L M A P and adopted by the Government.

       11. The Request claims that people were however, denied their requests for land claim
          investigations on the ground that these lands were within a development
          zone. According to the Request, in 2007, on the same month when the adjudication
          record was posted in the commune, a lease agreement was signed between the
          municipality to which the commune belongs and a private developer, covering the area
          where the Requesters currently live. The Request adds that Bank staff stated that a
          number o f titles in the adjudication area (the commune) were issued to residents and
          that " i t can be assumed that most if not all [the plots titled] fall outside the development
          zone." [Text in brackets in original] Local authorities later announced, however, that
          the land o f the community that i s subject o f the Request had been demarcated as a
          development zone.

       12. The Requesters state that in 2008, when the developer began i t s works, residents o f the
           communities started facing pressure and intimidation to leave the area and, a year later,
           many families received formal eviction notices giving them a one-week deadline to
           accept one o f three compensation options. These options were: cash compensation,
           relocation in a site many kilometers away, and, finally, onsite housing coupled with



  Consistent with initial indications from the Requesters, the Panel redacted certain references i the Request for
                                                                                                   n
Inspection before issuing the Notice o f Registration. Subsequently, the Panel received authorization from the
Requesters to publish the more detailed information that i s included in this Report and i t s Annexes. Annex 1 o f
Management Response, in the left column summarizing the Request for Inspection, refers to the initially redacted
Request for Inspection.

                                                                                                                      3
   temporary relocation while waiting for the construction o f the houses to be completed
   in about four years.

13. According to the Requesters, the residents o f the BKL communities "regard themselves
    as owners o the land" and have documents that recognize their ownership under
                 f
    customary tenure. The Requesters argue that the Project, which aims at creating a
    centralized and formal land registration process, has in fact weakened and degraded the
    land tenure o f the customary land owners because the Project `tfailed to formalize their
    tenure " and did not "transfer their customary rights under formalized land titles."

14. With respect to the above-noted lease agreement between the municipality and a private
    developer, the Requesters state that "the adjudication process, at a minimum, resulted
    in a de facto determination o the status o the land to be State-owned."'In any event,
                                  f            f
    the Requesters argue, whether the land is n o w State land or not, residents started to be
    and continue to be evicted. The Requesters state that the possibility o f evictions was
    envisaged in the IDA'SDevelopment Credit Agreement, which, in this regard, required
    the application o f the Bank's environmental and social policies, including a
    Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). The Requesters contend, however, that the RPF
    was not applied in the case o f the communities they represent.

15. The Requesters also claim that they brought these issues related to the adjudication
    process to the attention o f Bank staff during a supervision mission to the area in 2008,
    but no remedial actions were taken following this visit.

16. Public Awareness According to 'the Requesters, other sub-components o f the Project
    have remained unimplemented. They refer to the Public Awareness Community
    Participation (PACP) sub-component, according to which Project affected people were
    to be informed and involved in the registration and adjudication process and NGOs
    were to be contracted for the implementation o f the PACP. The Requesters claim that to
    date no N G O was ever contracted for this purpose and many Cambodian people lack
    any knowledge about their land rights and the registration system.

17. Dispute Resolution Mechanism The Request also mentions the lack o f a functioning
    dispute resolution mechanism that was envisaged under the Project. The Cadastral
    Commission set up to resolve disputes in the area has not performed satisfactorily and,
    according to the Requesters, poor communities are in a highly disadvantaged position
    in the land dispute process. The Requesters note that this problem had been recognized
    in the LMAP Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and, as a result, legal aid was to be
    offered to poor communities. The Requesters claim that to date, seven years into the
    Project implementation, no legal assistance has been provided under the L M A P .

18. Bank Compliance and Urgency o f Request According to the Requesters, the claims
    they describe in their Request demonstrate a lack o f compliance by the World Bank
    with the policy on project supervision and other policies. They add, nonetheless, that
    since February 2009, after they again raised their complaints, the Bank undertook
    actions such as an Enhanced Supervision Mission followed by a Safeguards Review

                                                                                            4
       Mission, during which the Requesters "requested the urgent intervention o the World
                                                                                   f
       Bank Management in their case." With subsequent letters to the Bank, the Requesters
       asked about the applicability o f Bank's safeguards policies and requested again urgent
       actions due to further eviction notices received by communities' residents.

    19. The Requesters state that they welcome the Bank's efforts since February 2009 but note
        that "the harm caused by seven years o inadequate supervision o the project has in no
                                               f                          f
        way been mitigated by the Bank's recent efforts." They reiterate that hundreds o f
        families have already been evicted from their land and had to accept "inadequate
        compensation under conditions o duress" because they lacked legal assistance. The
                                          f
        Requesters add that there is no indication that those families that were given eviction
        notices with a fast approaching deadline will be treated differently. They also state that
        the communities they represent are not an isolated case and other communities in
        Cambodia have suffered the same harm under the L M A P .

    20. The Requesters ask that the Panel conduct an investigation o f the matters described in
        the Request for Inspection.

    21. The above claims may constitute, inter alia, non-compliance by the Bank with various
        provisions o f the following operational Policies and Procedures:

     OP/BP 4.12              Involuntary Resettlement
     O P B P 13.05           Project Supervision

D. Management Response

    22. The Management Response starts by describing the Project, its context and background
        and the status o f implementation activities at the time the Government requested the
        cancellation o f the Bank's credit. The Response then goes on to address the `special
        issues' raised in the Request for Inspection, and concludes by presenting a set o f
        proposed actions aimed at addressing the harm the Requesters describe in their
        submission to the Panel, particularly in relation to the resettlement o f the BKL
        communities, as well as some broader development challenges o f the land sector in
        Cambodia. The following paragraphs will briefly touch on these focal points o f the
                                                                                  1
        Response, a complete copy o f which i s attached to this Report as Annex 1 .

    23. Context The LMAP Project was approved in 2002 with the objective to address
        development challenges o f the land sector in Cambodia, a country which was emerging
        from years o f conflict, with land records destroyed, a copious number o f land disputes
        and very little capacity to handle these complex issues. According to Management, in
        this context the Project thus aimed at developing a land policy and regulatory
        framework, building capacity o f the relevant Government agencies, developing a land
        registration system and a titling program, strengthening mechanism for land disputes
        and developing State land management.




                                                                                                5
       24. Project Legal F r a m e w o r k The Response notes that the legal framework underpinning
           Project activities i s the Land Law, which was passed in 2001 and constitutes a
                                   f
           `Yundamental reform o land law administration in Cambodia"'.

       25. The law clarifies the nature o f property rights and how to acquire them, and establishes
           the right to just and prior compensation in case o f taking o f land by the State. It
           provides the legal basis for adjudication o f rights and for the resolution o f land disputes
           both at field level and by a Cadastral Commission with jurisdiction over disputes on
           unregistered lands. The law also defines the legal nature o f land held by the State,
           which amounts to almost two thirds o f the country, and divides it into State public land
           - e.g. forests, lakes, roadways etc, which cannot be sold and be subject to possession
           rights or land concessions - and State private land, which i s all State land that i s not
           public land and can be subject to possession rights. State Public land can be converted
           into State Private land when it loses i t s public interest use. One o f the main features o f
           the Land Law i s the right to claim ownership o f land that can be lawfully possessed and
           has been indeed possessed since before August 30,2001 (date o f enactment o f the Land
           Law), in good faith and in an "unambiguous, non violent, notorious to the public,
                          way (or has been acquired in good faith from a legitimate possessor
           according to the criteria just described). It follows that, while State private land can be
           subject to possessory rights, private ownership cannot be established on State public
           land.

       26. The Response further notes that according to the P A D "no eviction, involuntary
           resettlement or land acquisition was anticipated during the Project." It adds however
           that the D C A provided that the Project had to be carried out in accordance with
           Environmental and Social Guidelines. These included a Resettlement Policy
           Framework (RPF), the application o f which would be triggered in case o f evictions
           from State land under the components o f the Project providing for systematic and
                            Management further indicates that the RPF would apply in three cases,
           sporadic titlingS7
           namely in case o f

                                                    f
                  "a) the eviction from State land o individuals who had occupied it prior to August
                  30, 2001, the date o the enactment o the 2001 Land Law, following titling o
                                         f                 f                                       f
                  such land in the name o the State; (b) the eviction from State land titled in the
                                           f
                  name o the State o individuals who had occupied it prior to August 30, 2001,
                         f             f
                  because o the need to use such land for the carrying out o civil works under the
                            f                                               f
                  Project; and (c) the extension by the State o Right o Way (ROW) claims that
                                                                f        f
                  adversely affected possession rights. " . 8




  Management Response, 120.
6
  Management Response, f 23.
7
  Management Response, f 30. The Response indicates that the Land Law establishes a modem registrationand land
titling system. The latter includes systematic titling, which covers all holdings in a given area, and sporadic titling,
which covers one parcel at a time.
8
  Management Response, f 3 1.

                                                                                                                      6
      27. Management states that the Project was "by necessity designed to be implemented
          sequentially, with titling teams focusing on selected adjudication areas first and then
          moving on to other areas" and "the application o the RPF was intended to follow the
                                                            f
          same sequencing.. ." Therefore Management asserts,


                  "...due to the Project's sequenced approach, and due further to the fact that full
                 coverage o any given Project province would not be achieved during the life o
                             f                                                                     f
                 the Project, Management has concluded that Project design clearly albeit
                 implicitly contemplated that there would be areas in which the Project was not
                 and would not be active and where it was not contemplated that the RPF would
                 apply."'

      28. The Response further notes that, according to the PAD, "the Project w i l l not title land
          in areas where disputes are likely until agreements are reached on the status o the  f
          land.'0" In addition, the titling programs supported by the Project would not cover
          informal settlers or "squatters" o n State land as the project was not conceived as a way
          to regularize informal settlements. 11

      29. Project implementation and achievements Management states that the Project has
          delivered "signijkant development benefits in several areas" as it helped the
          establishment o f a modern land administration system, which led to registering and
          titling more than one million parcel o f land in a cost effective manner at around $1 1 per
          title. At the same time, Management acknowledges that improvements in the land
          tenure security cannot be measured because o f a lack o f relevant data and a
          methodology to collect those data.

      30. The Response includes a specific description o f implementation progress o f each
          Project component. In this regard, Management states that achievements have been
          uneven across the various Project components. For example, according to Management,
          on the one hand the land titling and registration component has been the most
          successful component due to the number o f parcels surveyed and titles issued. O n the
          other hand, no NGO was recruited to lead the Public Awareness and Participation
          Activities program provided for under the same component.

      31 The Response also notes that results were mixed under the component aimed at
         strengthening dispute resolution mechanisms. The Cadastral Commission and
         provincial and district level commissions for mediating land disputes were created but
         could not realistically offer an independent dispute resolution system. Moreover, no
         NGO was recruited to offer legal assistance to the poorest people and this limited the

9
 Management Response, 7 32.
loManagement   Response, 7 35.
  Management Response, 7 36. In the early 2000s a separate program t o address informal settlements was underway
with the support o f various agencies and donors, including the United Nations Center for Human Settlements
(UNCHS). However, the Management Response indicates that the program was discontinued in 2004 and n o other
program to regularize the tenure o f informal settlements has since started.

                                                                                                               7
          effectiveness o f the Cadastral Commission system as well. With respect to the State
          Land Management component, the Response indicates that while procedures were
          developed for land classification, the implementation o f State land mapping and related
          process was only limited to a few pilot operations.

      32. Boeung K a k Lake Issue In general, Management states that "once it realized the
          potential issues around the resettlement o the BKL communities, it acted quickly". I t
                                                    f
          further states that

               ". . .Management also realized that there were specijk shortcomings in past
               Project implementation and supervision, related to: (a) the implementation o one
                                                                                           f            '

               component (i. e., land management) and two sub-components (i. e., information
               dissemination and community participation, and legal assistance for the
               disadvantaged); and @) safeguards. 12"

      33. The Management Response includes a "Chronology o Key Events" surrounding the
                                                                 f
          involuntary resettlement o f the BKL communitie~'~. M a y 2006 the Sras Chok
                                                                   In
          commune in which the BKL area i s located was declared an adjudication area. The
          commune was then demarcated and the results publicly displayed in January/February
          2007. However, the BKL area within the commune was not considered for demarcation
          because the Municipality o f Phnom Penh (MPP) (within which Sras Chok commune i s
          situated) claimed that BKL was State Public land. This, therefore, excluded BKL from
          titling, given that, under the Land Law, possession rights cannot be claimed on State
          Public Land.

      34. Management notes that in spite o f the assertion that BKL was public land, plans for
          private development o f the area were underway since 2005, and culminated in February
          2007 with the MPP signing a 99-year lease covering the BKL area with a private
          developer. In August 2008, the Government issued a sub-decree to convert the area
          from State Public land to State Private land. Management goes o n to state that residents
          o f the area were then told that they would have to relocate and could accept one o f three
          compensation options, which allegedly would be withdrawn after the deadlines for
          relocation expired. Management adds that from August 2008 `tfurther pressure to
          relocate was brought to bear" o n the residents when the developer started filling the
          BK lake causing structural damage and flooding to people's housing. 14.

      35. Management states that it has not received evidence that the BKL area i s State Public
          land. According to records, ownership o f the area i s considered "unknown", which
          seems to be the classification that i s generally used for State Public Land in a titling
          process. However, Management also adds that based on information it gathered, only
          the villages around BKL area were demarcated and no demarcation o f individual
          parcels took place. Moreover, only one title (for a public gas depot) was issued in the



l2Management Response, 7 95.
 Management
l3           Response, 7 48.
l4Management Response, 7 48.

                                                                                                   8
          name o f the State as a result o f the adjudication process in the commune, but no title
          was issued in the name o f the State for the land o f the BKL area.

      36. In light o f this, "Management concluded that roper procedures were not followed in
          the adjudication o the Sras Chok commune "`{that the residents o f the BKL area were
                              f
          not given an opportunity to present their claims o f their possession o f the land and that
          there is no evidence that a transparent participatory process was carried out to
          determine the classification o f the land in question as State Public Land.

      37. Application o f the RPF Based on the information gathered and described above,
          Management concluded that the RPF should have been applied to the displacements o f
          the residents in the Sras Chok commune and the BKL area. In this regard, Management
          argues that the criteria for triggering the application o f the RPF set forth in the D C A
          were met: the Sras Chok commune was an adjudication area where systematic titling
          was being carried out and, though no formal title to the State was issued, the lease
          signed with the private developer over the land can be viewed as a de facto
          determination o f the land as State land. Management states that:

                 "To exclude the application o the RPF to evictions in a Project adjudication area
                                              f
                because the adjudication process was apparently not followed to its conclusion
                and no formal title was issued in the name o the State, would be contrary to the
                                                            f
                intentions underlying the development o the RPF, as set out in the DCA.I6"
                                                       f

      38. The Response notes that the Government o f Cambodia disagrees with this position
          regarding the application o f the RPF to the BKL area, arguing that the land in question
          was not titled to the State and therefore it was not within the scope o f the Project. While
          Management maintains i t s position that the RPF applies to the BKL area, it also
          acknowledges that " a lack o specifcity in the Project documents" and "the apparent
                                        f
          absence o detailed discussions o the reach o the RPF" may be at the root o f the
                    f                         f             f
          Government disagreement on this issue. l7

      39. Management states that it disagrees with the Requesters' claim that the Project, as
          designed and implemented, weakened the pre-existing customary rights o f people.
          Management states that if carried out correctly, the titling process should strengthen the
          situation o f those with recognizable possession rights. The Response o n the other hand
          also recognizes that, as in the case o f the Sras Chok commune, the lack o f a transparent
          and reviewable mechanism to determine whether the land i s State public land
          compromised pre-existing rights over the land.

      40. Bank's reactions to events in BKL The Response states that a Bank mission first
          visited the BKL area in June 2008 but the visit was short and discussion took place only
          with Project staff. At that time, Management notes, though no titles had been issued to
          the residents, there was no discussion about a conversion from State Public to State


  Management Response, 749.
l6Management Response, 7 5 1.
l7Management Response, 7 52.

                                                                                                    9
         Private land or about resettlement o f the communities. Thus, no link was made at the
         time between the Project and possible involuntary resettlement.

     41. A few months later, in November 2008, discussions started between the Bank and a
         concerned N G O about the situation o f the BKL area and other communities in Phnom
         Penh. In January 2009 evictions took place in one community (Dey Krahorn) and
         another one (known as Group 78) was threatened with displacement. Management
         states that when it realized that evictions were being accelerated and harm to affected
         people was possible, it "reacted promptly" by engaging in a "multi pronged
         approach''" This approach included the decision to carry out an Enhanced Review
         Mission (ERM) o f the Project to make sure that there was a clear understanding o f the
         obligations under the Project. There were also various meetings with Project staff and
         Government officials to request a temporary moratorium on evictions until a national
         legal and policy framework for involuntary resettlement was in place, and discussions
         with the Project co-financiers and other donors.

     42. The ERM, carried out in April 2009, assessed the contribution o f the Project to improve
         land tenure security and resolving land disputes. It concluded, among other things, that
         shortcomings in Project's design and implementation had led to a disconnect between
         the Project's success in the issuance o f land titles and continuing insecurity o f the poor
         in land tenure. It also noted that local authorities were excluding lands in adjudication
         areas from titling activities without following proper procedures and without allowing
         people access to information and dispute resolution mechanisms. Management states
         that the recommendations o f the ERM provided the input for the proposed actions
         included in the Management Response (see paragraphs below).

     43, As more evictions took place, Management maintains that it took further additional
         actions. These included offering support to the Government to improve the conditions
         o f the sites where some evicted people had been resettled, and continued discussions
         with the Government to improve State land management practices. In addition,
         Management states that in early August it set up a safeguards mission to find ways to
         address the situation in BKL area, because it appeared that the BKL was the next
         community "to be                Further, Management sent a letter to the Government
         reiterating the request for a moratorium on evictions, while emphasizing the possible
         linkages between the BKL evictions and the Project and the Government's obligations
         under the DCA. According to the timeline o f events provided in the Management
         Response Annex 4, evictions in the BKL community started in August 2009.

     44. Management also states that the Bank's Regional Vice President (RVP) traveled to
         Phnom Penh to meet with senior Government officials in August 2009. The RVP
         reiterated the request for the moratorium on evictions and offered to allocate Bank
         resources for the resettlement o f the BKL communities. According to Management, the
         RVP proposed to the Government to suspend jointly the Project while the national



'*Management Response, 7 58.
l9Management Response,   7 59.
                                                                                                  10
          policy framework was improved, but the Government followed with a request to cancel
          the undisbursed balance o f the Credit on September 7,2009.

      45. Project Supervision Management recognizes that "supervision ofsafeguards and other
          social measures should have been more robus?'" and that the implementation status o f
          Environmental and Social Guidelines was not sufficiently reviewed in the adjudication
          areas. I t also acknowledges that improvements could have been made to the supervision
          reporting on safeguards issues, up to the most recent safeguards mission in mid-2009.
          Management also indicates that neither safeguards nor resettlement specialists
          participated in crucial supervision missions. The Response further notes that before
          2009 there was no in-depth examination o f the issue o f evictions from State land and
          that the Task team did not focus o n the connection between evictions, land disputes and
          titling activities under the Project. The need to examine these connections emerged only
          after communications sent from NGOs to the Bank and the completion o f the ERM.

      46. Management further recognizes that opportunities were missed to restructure the
          Project during implementation, while acknowledging that the Project's Closing Date
          was extended for two years in 2007 without addressing key issues, namely that the
          Project was not going to achieve its objectives and that implementation o f the various
          components was very uneven. Management further recognizes the `,f,ul?'" with an
          overall assessment o f the Project as moderately satisfactory. This judgment was based
          on action plans rather than results.

      47. The Response also notes that in 2006 the focus o f implementation had shifted towards
          fiduciary aspects o f the Project (as noted above the Project was suspended in 2006) and
          on outputs such as the issuance o f titles, rather than the implementation o f the Project
          as whole. Management recognizes that, as highlighted in the ERM, implementation o f
          components and activities o f the Project were disconnected from each other.
          Implementation focused on the successful parts, e.g. issuance o f titles, and did not
          address other activities necessary to achieve the Project objective o f improving land
          security.

      48. Proposed Actions Management indicates that i t s relations with the Government "have
          been strained by the latest developments,22" the disagreement on the linkage between
          the Project and the BKL resettlement, and the need to halt evictions until a resettlement
          framework is in place. It adds that the Government has yet to respond to Management's
          letter acknowledging the decision to cancel the Credit and reminding the Government
          o f i t s legal obligations under the Credit.

      49. Management also states that it " w i l l continue its efforts to address the issues raised in
          the Request." I t argues that since April 2009 Management has raised the issue o f
          evictions with the Government and has offered support to find solutions. Continuing in
          this effort will require close cooperation with the Government and with the
          Development Partners. According to Management, the Government has expressed

2o ManagementResponse, 7 72\.
21 ManagementResponse,  7 70.
22 Management Response, 7 77.


                                                                                                    11
             interest in continuing with the land reforms and in collaborating with the Bank so long
             as "the Government retains ownership and leadership o the decision making
                                                                            f
             process.237,

         50. Management proposes actions to address the Requesters' concerns focused on two
             fronts and emphasizes that these require cooperating with the Government and the
             Development Partners. Management states that,

                    "[qt will work with the Government and Development Partners towards ensuring
                   that the communities who are resettledpom the BKL area will be supported in a
                   way consistent with the agreed Resettlement Policy Framework ;and,

                   I t w i l l continue to engage the Government and Development Partners to ensure
                   that communities that need to be resettled in the future would benefit from a
                   resettlement policy that meets appropriate standards and porn fair and
                   independent dispute resolution mechanism^.^^"

         5 1. Management recognizes that the resettlement packages offered to people resettled from
              the BKL area were not in accordance with the RPF, and is thus committed to undertake
              an assessment o f social impacts o f the resettlement on the affected communities.
              Management proposes to work with the Government and the Development Partners to
              ensure that people are supported on the same basis as if the RPF applied. If the
              Government does not respond on this, Management states that it will request the
              Government to allow the Bank to carry out the assessment on i t s own so as to develop a
              plan to mitigate negative impacts and improve social and economic opportunities.

         52. Management i s also concerned about living conditions and livelihood opportunities in
             and around the resettlement sites and has encouraged the Government to improve these
             sites. The Response adds that the Bank will pursue the opportunity to use Bank funds
             for this purpose. The Bank i s also encouraging the Government to mitigate the
             environmental impacts o f filling the BK Lake.

         53. In addition, Management states that it will try to work with the Government to improve
             the capacity o f existing dispute resolution mechanisms as well as the capacity o f
             communities and NGOs to use them. In addition, it will continue to try to engage the
             Government in finalizing a national resettlement policy framework to mitigate impacts
             o f resettlement on affected people and ensure a fair and systematic approach to
             resettlement activities. Management adds that the Government i s already working in
             this direction: a draft L a w on Expropriation has been prepared as well as a sub-decree
             on resettlement. Guidelines for urban informal settlements are also being discussed,

         54. Management further states that engagement with the Government will also focus on
             improving conditions at various resettlement sites in the country, especially o f people
             resettled from State Public land. Management also plans to use other projects to support
             land tenure and livelihood for poor communities. Finally, as the Country Assistance

23   Management Response, 7 75.
24   Management Response, 7 76.

                                                                                                   12
              Strategy (CAS) will be redefined in 2010, Management states that it will initiate a
              consultative process to redefine the Bank's role in Cambodia and to identify areas o f
              support and cooperation with the Government.

         55. Lessons learned According to the Response, a number o f lessons have emerged from
             this Project, from the difficulties in implementation and supervision and challenges
             presented by the land sector and by working in a post conflict environment.
             Management states that these lessons include: improving design and implementation
             with clearer definitions of, inter alia, Project areas and criteria to apply an RPF;
             developing a more robust results monitoring framework to allow synchronizing
             progress in key outputs with progress in institutional and policy aspects o f the project;
             re-appraising projects based on changing circumstances on the ground; strengthening
             the monitoring o f key risks, particularly in reference to safeguards issues; enhancing
             supervision, and developing mechanisms to partner with civil society organizations,
             along with the Government.

E. Eligibility

         56. The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria set forth
             in the 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel and the 1999 clarification^,^^ and
             recommend whether the matters alleged in the Requests should be investigated.

         57. The Panel has reviewed the Request and Management's Response. Panel Chairperson,
             Roberto Lenton, together with Panel Member Alf Jerve, Deputy Executive Secretary
             Dilek Barlas and Senior Operations Officer Tatiana Tassoni visited Cambodia from
             November 16 through November 19, 2009. During their visit, the Panel team met with
             the organization representing the Requesters, signatories o f the Requests for Inspection
             and other affected people, as well as with other NGOs operating in Cambodia that are
             concerned, in particular, about issues o f evictions o f communities around Phnom Penh.
             The Panel also met with Government officials, Bank Management in Cambodia, other
             Bank staff, and representatives o f the Bank's Development Partners and other donors.
             The Panel also visited the community where the Requesters live and the resettlement
             site where some affected people who chose the relocation option now live.

         58. The Panel i s satisfied that the Request meets all o f the eligibility criteria provided in the
             1993 Resolution and Paragraph 9 o f the 1999 Clarifications.

         59. During the visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters are legitimate parties under
             the Resolution to submit a Request for Inspection to the Inspection Panel. The
             Requesters are affected parties who have common interests and common concerns, and
             reside in the Borrower's territory. The Request satisfies item (a) o f the said Paragraph
             9.




25   Conclusions o f the Board's Second Review o f the Inspection Panel (the "1999 Clarifications"), April 1999.

                                                                                                                   13
     60. The Panel confirms that the Request "assert[s] in substance that a serious violation by
         the Bank o its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have material
                    f
         adverse effect upon the requesters," as per the requirement o f Paragraph 9(b).

     6 1. The Requesters assert that hundreds o f families have already been evicted from their
          land in the BKL area and had to accept "inadequate compensation under conditions o        f
          duress" due to Bank's non-compliance with its involuntary resettlement, supervision
          and other policies. The Requesters note that numerous families living in the BKL area
          are at risk o f being evicted and were given eviction notices with a fast approaching
          deadline, and that there i s no indication that they will be treated differently from those
          already evicted.

     62. The Panel confirmed that, as acknowledged in the Management Response, the World
         Bank was aware o f the concerns o f the people living in the BKL area long before the
         submission o f the Request for Inspection. The Requesters corresponded with Bank
         Management and met with Bank staff on several occasions prior to the submission o f
         the Request for Inspection. As noted above, while they welcome the Bank's recent
         efforts, the Request states that "the harm caused by seven years o inadequate
                                                                                 f
         supervision o the project has in no way been mitigated" by such efforts. The Panel i s
                      f
         therefore satisfied that the Request "does assert that the subject matter has been
         brought to Management's attention and that, in the Requesters' view, Management has
        failed to respond adequately demonstrating that it has followed or is taking steps to
        follow the Bank's policies and procedures." Hence, the Request meets the requirement
         o f Paragraph 9(c).

     63. The Panel notes that the subject matter o f the Request i s not related to procurement, as
         required by Paragraph 9(d).

     64. The Project Closing Date was December 3 1,2009. As o f the date the Request was filed,
         about 70% o f the Loan had been disbursed. Thus the Request satisfies the requirement
         in Paragraph 9(e) that the related Loan has not been closed or substantially disbursed
         when the Request was filed. The Panel received the Request for Inspection on
         September 4, 2009. As stated in the Management Response, on September 7, 2009, the
         Government o f Cambodia cancelled the undisbursed balance o f the L M A P Credit.

     65. Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject
         matter o f the Request. Therefore, the Request satisfies Paragraph 9(f).

F. Observations

    66. At the outset, the Panel recognizes the importance o f the objectives o f the Project and
        o f the World Bank's engagement in land sector issues in Cambodia, which are essential
        to the country's sustainable development. This point was emphasized to the Panel by
        many stakeholders, who also noted the large number o f titles that were issued under the
        Project in a cost effective manner. That said, the Panel would like to underscore the



                                                                                                  14
   seriousness and gravity o f the situation presented by this Request, and the urgency o f
   the concerns.

67, The Panel has carefully reviewed the Management Response and other relevant Project
    documents, which describe the Project and the context in which it came about and was
    implemented, and discuss the current land tenure situation and debate in Cambodia. As
    noted above, the Panel also met with Bank Management in Cambodia to gain a better
    understanding o f the current situation with respect to the Project and the prospect o f
    possible solutions to the Requesters and other affected people's problems.

68. During i t s visit to Phnom Penh, the Panel met with a number o f leaders and
    representatives o f the BKL community. The Panel visited the BKL area and met with
    people who are at risk o f being evicted. The Panel also visited the resettlement site
    where some o f the people who were evicted and have chosen the relocation option now
    live. The Panel heard disturbing reports about the harm suffered by those people who
    were already evicted from their land and those who have received notices o f eviction
    and are under the threat o f eviction.

69. The Panel was informed that there were three compensation options offered to evicted
    people: cash compensation; a house in a relocation site; or onsite housing coupled with
    temporary relocation while waiting for the construction o f new houses to be completed
    in about four years. The Panel was also informed that not all evicted people were
    offered these options. Some families accepted to relocate to the resettlement site, but
    the Panel received reports that many services are s t i l l lacking and very few income
    generation opportunities are available in and around the resettlement site. Furthermore,
    there i s no public transportation to Phnom Penh and other sites where employment
    might be more available. The Panel was told that due to these conditions, many families
    left the resettlement site and returned to Phnom Penh. As a result many previous
    homeowners became tenants in the city.

70. The Panel was also told by people who are currently living in the site that many other
    people accepted the cash option as it gave them a chance to stay in Phnom Penh, which
    offers work opportunities. In the same resettlement area, the Panel also observed a
    number o f evicted families who live in makeshift structures under squalid and
    unsanitary conditions, with few affordable basic services (water and sanitation,
    schooling, health centers etc.). The Panel notes that it was informed that these families
    used to live outside the Project area and their resettlement is not related to the Project.

71. The Panel also met with various community leaders and people in the BKL area who
    have received notices o f eviction but are s t i l l living in their houses. They showed the
    Panel eviction notices with short deadlines and indicated that they feel intimidated and
    pressured to move out o f their houses. The Panel visited various houses that were
    flooded by lake waters as a result o f the private developer's filling the natural lake in
    the BKL area. The Panel was told that this flooding i s a form o f intimidation to force
    people out. The Panel also heard that not only did the flooding o f the houses create
    great discomfort and unsanitary living conditions, but also has led to deaths due to


                                                                                             15
           electrocution. The Panel was also informed that people were not allowed to repair their
           houses.

      72. Affected people claim they have been living in the BKL for many years - some people
          more than twenty years - and showed the Panel proof o f recognition o f their possessory
          rights and certificates o f registration by village chiefs, which they claim was the
          customary registry o f lands before the Project. They also claimed that the compensation
          they received and/or were offered was inadequate and hardly sufficient to sustain the
          livelihood o f the families.

      73. Affected people who met with the Panel stressed that additional evictions are imminent
          and wished that a solution to address the harm people are suffering be found promptly.
          Many o f them told the Panel that they understand the needs o f development and are not
          against it but ask that adequate compensation and the opportunity to sustain their
          livelihood be given to them.

      74. During i t s visit, the Panel received several reports that made evident that the issue o f
          evictions i s not limited to the BKL area but may potentially affect many other areas in
          and around Phnom Penh and beyond. The seriousness o f the situation has also received
          national and international media attention.

      75. In its Response, Management states that proper procedures were not followed in the
          adjudication o f the Sras Chok commune, within which BKL area i s located.
          Management indicates that the Resettlement Policy Framework should have been
          applied to displacements or threatened displacements from the Sras Chok adjudication
          area. Management also notes that the proposed packages to affected people were not
          equivalent to what the residents would have received had the Resettlement Policy
          Framework been applied. In its Response, Management acknowledges specific
          shortcomings in past Project implementation and supervision, related to: (a) the
          implementation o f one component (i.e., land management) and two sub-components
          (Le., information dissemination and community participation, and legal assistance for
          the disadvantaged); and (b) safeguards.

      76. The Panel i s not in an investigation stage and according to its procedures "will not
           report on the Bank's failure to comply with its policies and procedures or its resulting
           material adverse effect" during i t s eligibility phase.26 Accordingly, the Panel at this
           time cannot draw conclusions about the claims and events described above or their
           possible connection to the Project.

      77. The Panel notes that Bank Management takes the situation o f the people affected by
          evictions very seriously and i s committed to find a solution to improve their living
          conditions. The Panel appreciates the proposed actions included in the Management
          Response and acknowledges the challenging and complex environment in which such

261999 Clarifications to Panel Resolution, Paragraph 7. This paragraph hrther provides that "any definitive
assessment o a serious failure o the Bank that has caused material adverse effect will be done after the Panel has
            f                   f
completed its investigation."

                                                                                                                 16
       actions are to be carried out. Management reiterated to the Panel that it i s making
       efforts to engage the Government o f Cambodia in a dialogue focused on action on two
       fronts to ensure that "the communities who are resettledfrom the BKL area w i l l be
       supported in a way consistent with the agreed Resettlement Policy FrameworlZ' and
       that "communities that need to be resettled in the future would benefit from a
       resettlement policy that meets appropriate standards and from fair and independent
       dispute resolution mechanisms", as indicated in the Management Response.

    78. Following its field visit and meetings with the Requesters, Bank Management and
        Government officials, the Panel believes that there i s a window o f opportunity for the
        Bank to reach agreement with the Government to initiate a dialogue aimed at
        developing concrete actions to redress harm to communities that were evicted and the
        ones that face involuntary resettlement. Bank Management indicated to the Panel that it
        believes that there are reasonable chances that such an agreement with the Government
        could be reached. The Panel believes that this dialogue i s particularly important to
        address the concerns and the imminent potential harm to those who are in danger o f
        evictions.

G. Conclusion

    79. The Requesters and the Request meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution
        that established the Inspection Panel and the 1999 Clarifications.

    80. In order to make an independent assessment o f Management's compliance or lack
        thereof with Bank policies and procedures and related issues o f harm in the context o f
        this Project, the Panel would need to conduct an appropriate review o f all relevant facts
        and applicable policies and procedures. This can only be done in the context o f an
        investigation o f the issues raised in the Request and related alleged harm.

    81. In this case Management has stated i t s commitment to initiate a dialogue with the
        Government o f Cambodia and other Development Partners to develop concrete actions
        for communities that were evicted and the ones that face involuntary resettlement. The
        Requesters emphasized the need for urgent measures to address their serious concerns
        and potential imminent evictions.

    82. In light o f the foregoing, and in fairness to all the parties concerned, the Panel, as it has
        done in similar situations in the past with Board approval, will not take a position at this
        time on whether the issues o f non-compliance and harm raised in the Request merit an
        investigation.

    83. The Panel, therefore, recommends to the Board o f Executive Directors that it approve
        the Panel's proposal to refrain from issuing a recommendation at this time o n whether
        an investigation i s warranted in this case, but rather await further developments on the
        matters raised in the Request for Inspection, especially because Management i s trying
        to establish a dialogue with the Government to address the concerns o f the Requesters.
        Taking into account the urgency o f the situation as it evolves, the Panel expects to

                                                                                                   17
make a determination n o later than March 31, 2010, as to whether to recommend an
investigation.




                                                                               18
ANNEX I
    Centre on Housing Rights a n d E v i c t i o n s
    8 N. ZndA v e n u e E a s t
    Suite 208
    Duluth,MN 55802              '



    U.S.A.



                                                                                 e-mail:           Litiga tion@cohre.com


    4 September 2009


    Re:        R e q u e s t for I n s p e c t i o n by World Bank I n s p e c t i o n P a n e l

                                                                                    -
               (Land M a n a g e m e n t and A d m i n i s t r a t i o n P r o j e c t P r o j e c t ID: P070875)

    Executive Secretary
    T h e I n s p e c t i o n Panel
    1818 H Street, N W
    Washington, D C 20433


    World B a n k Inspection Panel,

     1.        T h e Centre on Housing R i g h t s a n d Evictions (COHRE) i s submitting this request
     for inspection on b e h a l f o f the representatives of the B o e u n g I<ak community located in the
    area known as Sras C h o c commune, D a u n P e n h district, Phnom Penh, Cambodia. These
    , c o m m u n i t y representatives have requested confidentiality in submitting this complaint a n d
    wish to r e m a i n anonymous. COHRE's address i s above.

    2.     ,T h e B o e u n g K a k c o m m u n i t y is a n d has been detrimentally affected by the L a n d
    Management a n d A d m i n i s t r a t i o n P r o j e c t (LMAP) as explained below. LMAP has five m a i n
    components: developing p o l i c y a n d legal framework, institutional development, l a n d titling,
    dispute resolution, a n d State l a n d management.' T h e project received IDA credit o f $28.83
    million.2

    3.      In 2006, the c o m m u n e o f Sras Chok, D a u n P e n h district, including the B o u e n g I<ak
    lake area, was announced as a n adjudication zone for the purposes o f systematic land
    registration u n d e r ` L M A P . T h e announcement was made by public notice in the local pagoda.
    Residents state that w h e n they requested that their l a n d claims be investigated, their requests
'
    were d e n i e d on the grounds,that they w e r e living inside a "development zone". T h i s process
    deviates from the legal procedure developed by the project a n d adopted by the Royal


    'LMAP PAD, page 8.
     World Bank Website, LMAP summary, http://siteresources.worldbank.oralINTCAMBODIA/
    Resources/Cambodia Project UPdatesndf,(accessed August 2009).
                                                                                                                       1
G o v e r n m e n t o f Cambodia. T h a t procedure states that f o l l o w i n g notice a n d a public meeting,
full investigations should b e conducted of the adjudication area. Any competing claims to
the l a n d must b e resolved in the process, a n d ifthis i s not possible, they should b e referred
t o the Cadastral Commission for r e s ~ l u t i o n . ~

4.        In January 2007, the adjudication record was publicly posted in Sras C h o c commune.
T h e same month, a lease agreement was signed between the Municipality of Phnom Penh
a n d a private developer, Shukaku Inc., over 133 hectares in Sras C h o c c o m m u n e (the
"development zone"), affecting a n estimated 4,250 families residing in the area. A c c o r d i n g to
the LMAP Task T e a m Leader, the result o f the adjudication process in Sras C h o c c o m m u n e
was t h e issuance o f approximately 400 titles a n d i t can b e assumed that "most if not all [the
plots titled] fall outside the development zone."`

5.       A letter sent from the Phnom P e n h D e p a r t m e n t o f L a n d Management to the
Municipality of Phnom P e n h in July 2008 i n f o r m e d the G o v e r n o r o f Phnom P e n h that the
lake a n d surrounding area h a d "been studied a n d demarcated" a n d the boundaries o f the
development area set at 133 h e ~ t a r e sThis includes the approximately 90 hectares o f lake
                                           .~
plus the surrounding area.

6.       Families living in the development zone began reporting facing pressure a n d
intimidation to leave the area in August 2008, w h e n the developer c o m m e n c e d filling in the
lake as p a r t o f the development. On 10 August 2009, m o r e than 150 households in B o e u n g
I<ak                     , w e r e issued their first f o r m a l eviction notice, w h i c h p r o v i d e d residents


with a one-week deadline to accept one o f three compensation options? Compensation
options include USD $8500 or a flat at D a m n a k T r o y e u n g relocation site (more than 20
kilometers outside o f the city-centre). T h e third option of onsite housing requires residents
to m o v e to Trapeang A n c h a n h relocation site (also m o r e t h a n 20 kilometers outside the city)
for four years while the permanent housing i s constructed in Boeung K a k .

7.      M a n y B o e u n g I<ak residents regard themselves as owners o f the l a n d a n d are in
possession o f documents that indicate recognition o f ownership u n d e r the customary tenure
system. T h e i n t r o d u c t i o n o f a widespread a n d systematic centralized a n d formalized land
registration process u n d e r LMAP has weakened recognition o f the customary tenure system
in Cambodia. As B o e u n g I<ak residents were unable to transfer their customary rights i n t o
formalized l a n d titles under LMAP, the project not only failed t o formalize their tenure but
in effect also degraded their pre-existing tenure status.

8.      A c c o r d i n g to Article 248 o f the Cambodian L a n d L a w o f 2001, until a n area i s
covered by the cadastral index m a p s a n d ownership rights have been secured, no act that
hinders the i m m o v a b l e property o f legal possessors i s allowed. A r t i c l e 248 thus provides
legal tenure protection to people residing in areas not yet covered by the index maps. T h e


 Sub-decree on the Procedures to Establish Cadastral Index Map and Land Register, 2002.
 Email correspondence with Peter Jipp, 3 September 2009.
 Letter NO965 Phnom Penh Department o f Land Management, `Boundary demarcation o Boeung Kak
                                                                                     f
development area', July 2008.
 Notification N'180, District Governor o f Daun Penh District, August 2009.
adjudication process that occurred in the Sras C h o c commune, including the creation o f a
cadastral i n d e x m a p triggered the lifting o f the p r o t e c t i o n granted by Article 248 against the
interference with residents, including t h r o u g h eviction.

 9.          As stated above, the adjudication o f Srah C h o c commune resulted in 400 titles being
issued outside of the development zone. I n the szme m o n t h , the B o e u n g I<ak area was
leased to a private company by the `Municipality o f Phnom Penh. I t i s unclear whether
 f o r m a l registration o f the l a n d to the State occurred, however, the adjudication process, at a
minimum, resulted in a defacto determination o f the status o f the l a n d to b e State-owned.
U p o n entering into the lease agreement, t h e Municipality o f Phnom P e n h claimed in the
media that t h e area was "State land". W h e t h e r the l a n d was formally or de facto determined
t o b e State p r o p e r t y following the adjudication process, t h e result was that persons residing
on State l a n d were a n d continue to b e subject to eviction. This scenario was envisaged in the
D e v e l o p m e n t Credit Agreement (DCA). In order to mitigate the potential h a r m o f evictions
f r o m State property, the DCA requires t h e application o f the E n v i r o n m e n t a l a n d Social
Guidelines, including the Resettlement P o l i c y Framework. T h e framework has not been
applied in t h e case o f B o e u n g K a k . Therefore, in addition to the weakening of the customary
land rights of Boueng,I<ak residents, t h e protections that the DCA required have not been
i m p l e m e n t e d by the Government.

10.        In July 2008, during a regular p r o j e c t supervision mission, W o r l d B a n k staff visited
Sras C h o c c o m m u n e a n d were m a d e aware o f the p r o b l e m s w i t h the adjudication process
a n d t h e p e n d i n g eviction o f area residents. COHRE i s not aware o f any remedial action
taken by the World B a n k following this mission.

11.          Furthermore, LMAP failed to i m p l e m e n t several important sub-components o f the
project, w h i c h were designed to p r e v e n t h a r m resulting from the project. T h e Public
Awareness a n d Community Participation (PACP) sub-component aimed 'to inform and
i n v o l v e the Cambodian p u b l i c in t h e registration a n d adjudication process. I t was envisioned
that NGOs would deliver PACP and a l l o w LMAP staff to focus on the technical aspect of
the titling process. However, in the seven years that the project has run, no NGOs were
ever contracted to conduct PACP, a n d i t i s clear that there i s s t i l l a dire lack o f knowledge
amongst most Cambodians regarding their l a n d rights, t h e registration system a n d dispute
resolution mechanisms.

12.     A further concern i s the l a c k o f access to a functioning dispute resolution
mechanism. T h e Cadastral Commission was set up to resolve disputes over unregistered
land, but i t s performance i s widely seen to b e unimpressive and of the m o r e than 5,000
complaints i t has received since i t s inception, 2,000 are s t i l l unresolved. I t i s widely accepted
that the Commission cannot resolve disputes involving high profile or w e l l connected
individuals against poor communities. T h e LhwP Project Appraisal D o c u m e n t
acknowledged this imbalance, a n d in a a n attempt to m i n i m i z e it, committed to p r o v i d e legal
aid to disadvantaged parties i n v o l v e d in l a n d disputes:
        T h e parties who will bring their disputes b e f o r e the Commission have vastly
         unequal resources to devote to pressing their claims. The poor will b e at a
         critical disadvantage i f they c a n n o t access legal assistance. T h e project will
         p r o v i d e this assistance, seeking to level the playing field by funding a n

                                                                                                            3
         expansion of the activities o f national legal NGOs currently p r o v i d i n g such
         legal assistance to the poor ...T h e project will provide funds for the
         h4LMUPC t o contract with selected legal NGOs f o r investigation, counseling
         a n d representation services for t h e disadvantaged'

In recognition o f the importance o f this aspect o f the project, the PAD also states in the
Sustainabihty and Risks section that a critical risk i s that the "Government lacks c o m m i t m e n t
to ensuring dispute resolution mechanisms function efficiently a n d fairly."                        The
corresponding Risk Mitigation Measure was to "maintain an active dialogue with government
a n d development partners to r e m a i n abreast o f changes in commitment." T h e project would
b e ``scaled back i f c o m m i t m e n t to a fair process o f dispute resolution i s inadequate"." T h i s
risk was rated as "substantial." To date, 7 years from the start o f the project, no legal a i d has
ever b e e n p r o v i d e d through LMAP.

13.    T h e preceding paragraphs s h o w a failure o f the World B a n k to c o m p l y with
Operational D i r e c t i v e 13.05 on Project Supervision. Despite the serious problems with the
implementation of LMAP in both t h e case of B o e u n g I<ak a n d the project m o r e widely (see
attached Executive Summary o f the BABSEA a n d COHRE report on LMAP: `"Untitled"),
consecutive supervision missions indicated satisfactory ratings on most o f the LMAP
components. T h e project was also extended for an additional two years in 2007, without any
apparent attempt to rectify the flaws.

14.     T h e B o e u n g I<ak case was first raised by COHRE a n d Bridges Across Borders
Southeast Asia (BABSEA) in a m e e t i n g with the World B a n k Country D i r e c t o r in February
2009. This meeting l e d to a n E n h a n c e d Supervision fission, l e d by World B a n k L e a d
Counsel from Washington D.C. in April 2009, during w h i c h the B o e u n g I<ak case was raised
again, along with other cases a n d broader concerns with LMAP. T h e Enhanced Supervision
Mission l e d to a Safeguards R e v i e w Mission, initiated on 3 August 2009, during w h i c h the
complainants discussed the applicability of B a n k safeguards t o the B o e u n g I<ak case
specifically a n d requested the urgent intervention o f the World B a n k management in their
case. On 14 August, a letter was sent by t h e Cambodian Housing Rights Task Force to the
World B a n k Country D i r e c t o r a n d LMAP T a s k T e a m Leader requesting clarification about
the applicability o f the LMAP E n v i r o n m e n t a l a n d Social Guidelines a n d the Resettlement
Policy F r a m e w o r k to the B o e u n g I<ak case. T h i s letter again requested that the World B a n k
intervene urgently in the B o e u n g I<ak case due to the eviction notice issued                         a
day earlier. T h e World B a n k m e t with c o m m u n i t y representatives a n d NGOs to dis&
issues a n d concerns related to t h e case. A week later, V i c e President for E a s t Asia a n d
Pacific James A d a m s visited Cambodia. COHRE was i n f o r m e d that h e raised t h e B o e u n g
I<ak issue with senior government officials during his visit.

15.    COHRE welcomes the efforts m a d e by the World B a n k management since February
2009 to address the serious p r o b l e m s with the implementation o f LMAD, a n d specifically the
harms suffered by B o e u n g K a k residents. However, the h a r m caused by seven years of
inadequate supervision o f t h e p r o j e c t has in no w a y been mitigated by the Bank`s recent


 LMAP PAD, page 38.
 LMAP PAD, page 24.
efforts. M o r e t h a n 900 families f r o m B o e u n g I<ak have already been cleared from the area
without their l a n d rights being p r o p e r l y adjudicated. In t h e absence o f any legal protections,
these families accepted inadequate compensation under conditions o f duress. T h e r e i s no
indication t h a t the recent efforts will lead to a m o r e favorable outcome for the remaining
families, some o f whom have been given a n eviction deadline of,three weeks. I t i s evident
that t h e actions taken by the B a n k management were too late to prevent the harms now
being done.

16.      T h e above m a y not b e a n exhaustive l i s t o f all World B a n k Operational Policies a n d
B a n k Procedures being violated by LMAP. Consequently, COHRE a n d the B o e u n g IGk
Community reserve the right to a m e n d this Request for Inspection.

17.        Finally, i t should b e n o t e d that that B o e u n g I<ak i s not a n isolated case. O t h e r
urban; r u r a l a n d indigenous communities throughout Cambodia have been unable to access
the l a n d titling and/or dispute resolution mechanisms u n d e r LMAP, a n d thus have not been
able to secure their l a n d rights u n d e r the f o r m a l system developed by LMAP. Some of these
communities h a v e experienced increased tenure insecurity a n d forced evictions.

18.    W e request the I n s p e c t i o n Panel r e c o m m e n d to the World Bank's          Executive
Directors t h a t a n investigation o f these matters b e carried out.

19.          COHRE a n d the B o e u n g K a k c o m m u n i t y reserve the right to p r o v i d e further
i n f o r m a t i o n on this matter.

Sincerely,




COHRE
                 MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
     THE REQUEST FOR AN INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
   CAMBODIA LAND MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT

                             (IDA Credit No. 3605-KH)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection o f the Cambodia Land
Management and Administration Project (IDA Credit 3605-KH), received by the
Inspection Panel on September 4,2009 and registered on September 24,2009 (RQ09/08).
Management has prepared the following response.
                                                                                                         Management Response



                                                          CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms            .........................................................................................   iv
Executive Summary .........................................................................................................       vi
I. Introduction..............................................................................................................      1
1 . The Request ..............................................................................................................
 1                                                                                                                                 1
1 1 Project Background.................................................................................................
 1.                                                                                                                               2
IV. Special Issues..........................................................................................................      18
V. Management Action Plan......................................................................................                   34
VI, Management's Response .......................................................................................                 39

Maps
Map 1.          IBRD 37286: Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project Area
Map 2.          IBRD 37290: Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project,
                ReferencedVillages
Map 3 .         IBRD 37289: Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project, Sras
                Chok Commune


Annexes
Annex 1.              Claims and Responses
Annex 2.              Land Management and Administration Project Status o f Implementation
Annex 3.              Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project Enhanced
                      Review Report
Annex 4.              Detailed Timeline on the BKL Evictions and the Bank's Response
Annex 5 .             Donor Statement and NGO Response
Annex 6.              Supervision History and Costs
Annex 7 .             Land Sector Reports
Annex 8.              Procurement Process: Community Participation Program and Legal
                      Assistance Program
Annex 9.              Guide to Key Legal Terms and Instruments




                                                                  i
                                                                  ii
Cambodia


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

      ADB         Asian Development Bank
      BABSEA      Bridges Across Borders Southeast Asia
      BKL         Boeung Kak Lake
      CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
      cc          Cadastral Commission
      CD          Country Director
      CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
      CLEC        Community Legal Education Center
      CLP         Council for Land Policy
      CM          Country Manager
      COHRE       Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions
      DCA         Development Credit Agreement
      DfTD        Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
      DP          Development Partner
      DPM         Deputy Prime Minister
      ERM         Enhanced Review Mission
      ESG         Environmental and Social Guidelines
      FA0         Food and Agriculture Organization
      GSCLP       General Secretariat of the Council for Land Policy
      GTZ         Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
                  (German Technical Cooperation Agency)
       IDA        International Development Association
       INT        Department o f Institutional Integrity
       IPA        Independent Procurement Agent
       ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
       JICA       Japan International Cooperation Agency
       JRSC       Jesuit Refugee Service Cambodia
       JSDF       Japan Social Development Fund
       LAMDP      Land Administration, Management and Distribution Program
       LAP        Legal Assistance Program
       LASED      Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development
       LASSP      Land Administration Sub-sector Program
       LEGEN      Environment and International Law Unit
       LMAP       Land Management and Administration Project
       LMSSP      Land Management Sub-sector Program
       LRT        Land Registration Team
       MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance
       MLMUPC     Ministry o f Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction
       MONASRI    Ministry of National Assembly-Senate Relations and Investigations
       MPP        Municipality o f Phnom Penh
       MTR        Mid-term Review
       NARLD      National Authority for the Resolution of Land Disputes
       NCC        National Cadastral Commission
       NCCS       NCC Secretariat
       NGO        Nongovernmental organization
       OD         Operational Directive
       OPBP       Operational Policy / Bank Procedure
       PACP       Public Awareness and Community Participation
       PAD        Project Appraisal Document
       PMO        Project Management Office
       PSR        Project Supervision Report
       REO1       Request,for Expression o f Interest
       RFP        Request for Proposals
       RGC        Royal Government o f Cambodia


                                 iv
                                                Management Response



ROW      Right o f Way
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RVP      Regional Vice President
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SLC      Social Land Concession
Sr. ML   Senior Minister o f Land
TF       Trust fund
TOR      Terms o f Reference
TWG      Technical Working Group
TWG-L    Technical Working Group on Land
UN       United Nations
UNCHS    United Nations Human Settlements Programme/Centre for Human
         Settlements (UN HABITAT)
us       United States




                       V
Cambodia



                                          SUMMARY
                                  EXECUTIVE

In 2002, the W o r l d Bank approved the Cambodia Land Management and Administration
Project (LMAP) with the goal o f supporting the first phase o f the Government's long-
term plan to build a modern land management sector. After 20 years o f conflict, the land
sector in Cambodia was considered one o f the most challenging in the world: most land
records had been destroyed, there were numerous land disputes, and there was little
capacity in the administration with which to rebuild the sector. The Government
established the legal framework by passing a new Land L a w in 2001 with the full
endorsement o f c i v i l society and the international development community.

The Project tried to address a complex development challenge. I t aimed to support the
Government in undertaking 5 sets o f activities that would be rolled out in eleven
provinces:
1. Development o f a land policy and regulatory framework;
2. Institutional capacity development o f the Ministry o f Land Management, Urban
   Planning and Construction, and setting up a university program on land management;
3. Development o f a land registration system and a land titling program;
4. Strengthening o f mechanisms for the resolution o f land disputes; and,
5. Development o f State land management.

The Project delivered significant development benefits in several areas. I t helped
establish a modem land administration system which resulted in the registering and titling
o f more than 1.1 million parcels o f land. I t also helped put in place key elements o f the
policy and regulatory framework (e.g., national policies on social land concessions,
economic land concessions, and indigenous peoples' land).

Still, i t was a risky undertaking in an environment with significant governance
challenges. The Project was suspended from June 2006 to February 2007 following an
investigation initiated by the Region into corruption issues in seven projects. In late 2008,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) informed the Bank o f concerns about the
effectiveness o f the Project in regard to poor urban communities. Following the eviction
o f the Dey Krahorm community in Phnom Penh in early 2009, Management realized that
there was an apparent acceleration o f evictions in urban areas and was concerned that
there might be potential harm to Project-affected people. I t responded promptly by
commissioning a review o f the Project, in particular as i t related to resettlement, and
started to engage the Government in a dialogue on this topic.

In exploring this issue over the past seven months, Management recognized that there
were specific shortcomings in past Project implementation and supervision, some of
which were raised by the Requesters.
1. Despite significant Task Team engagement, the Project lost focus on some o f the key
   elements o f i t s original design. Despite several attempts, no NGOs were contracted to
   support implementation o f the Information Dissemination and Community
   Participation Program, o r to provide legal assistance to disadvantaged people under
   the dispute resolution mechanism. Only partial progress was made in the area o f State


                                             vi
                                                                        Management Response



   land management. Management recognizes that attention had shifted towards
   fiduciary aspects and the issuance o f titles, and that i t missed opportunities to engage
   the Government on the dispute resolution mechanisms in the Project and on h o w to
   respond to changing circumstances (e.g., the unanticipated exponential growth o f land
   values and resulting land conflicts in Phnom Penh).
2. Management also recognizes that supervision o f safeguards and other social measures
   should have been more robust. Although the Project included a Resettlement Policy
   Framework (RPF) that would apply to resettlement from State land in titling areas,
   the Bank did not focus until early 2009 o n the potential connection between specific
   land disputes and the titling activities under the Project.
3. With regard to the specific claim brought to the Panel, Management concurs with the
   Requesters that the Borrower i s obligated to apply the RPF in this case. The
   Government does not share that view. Management acknowledges that a lack o f
   specificity in the Project documents and the apparent absence o f detailed discussions
   about the reach o f the RPF may have contributed to the Government's understanding
   o f i t s obligations.

In addition to ordering the review which brought to light the above shortcomings,
Management has undertaken a series o f actions since February 2009. In consultations
with Development Partners and NGOs in Cambodia, Management has repeatedly raised
the issue o f evictions with the Government - through letters, meetings, and in public
statements. The Bank has asked the Government to put a halt to evictions until i t finalizes
i t s national legal and policy framework for resettlement and improves the dispute
resolution mechanism. The Bank has also offered i t s assistance in reviewing the draft
laws on resettlement and in upgrading resettlement sites around Phnom Penh based on a
social needs assessment.

On September 7, 2009, the Government o f Cambodia cancelled the undisbursed balance
o f the LMAP Credit. This constrains options for Management and the Government to
address the development needs o f the communities that were evicted. Management w i l l
continue to focus i t s overall dialogue with the Government on the need to develop jointly
concrete actions for communities that were evicted and those that face involuntary
resettlement, including:
     Working with the Government and Development Partners towards ensuring that the
     communities who filed the Request will be supported in a way consistent with the
     Resettlement Policy Framework; and,
     Continuing to engage the Government and Development Partners to ensure that
     communities that need to be resettled in the future benefit from a resettlement policy
     that meets appropriate standards and f r o m fair and independent dispute resolution
     mechanisms.

Management will also try to engage the Government in a dialogue on the need to assess
other resettlement sites in Phnom Penh and other cities, with the aim o f improving their
conditions.




                                             vii
Cambodia


Finally, Management and staff are already drawing early lessons from this experience,
including improving design and implementation through clearer definitions and shared
understanding between the Bank and the Borrower o f the applicability o f resettlement
frameworks.




                                           viii
                 MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO THE
         REQUEST FOR A N INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
    CAMBODIA LAND MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION      PROJECT
                     (IDA CREDIT NO.3605-KH)


                                    I. INTRODUCTION

1.     On September 24, 2009, the Inspection Panel (the Panel) registered a Request for
Inspection (the Request) concerning the Cambodia Land Management and
Administration Project (LMAP, or the Project), which i s financed in part by the
International Development Association (IDA)' through Credit No. 3605-KH for SDR19.3
million.

2.     Structure o the Text. This Management Response (the Response) contains the
                       f
following sections: Section I1 presents the Request; Section I11 provides Background
Information on the Project; Section I V discusses Special Issues; Section V lays out the
Next Steps and Management's Action Plan; and Section V I provides Management's
Response. Annex 1 presents, in matrix format, the claims made in the Request and
Management's detailed responses to them. Annex 2 shows the Status o f Implementation
by component and sub-component. Annex 3 i s the report o f the Enhanced Review                          .
Mission. Annex 4 contains a Detailed Timeline on the Boeung Kak Lake Evictions and
the Bank's Response. Annex 5 provides the Donor Statement o f July 19, 2009 and the
NGO Response. Annex 6 presents the Project's Supervision History and Costs. Annex 7
contains a l i s t o f Land Sector Reports prepared under the Project. Annex 8 provides a
description o f the Procurement Process followed for the Community Participation
Program and the Legal Assistance Program. Finally, Annex 9 i s a guide to legal terms
used in the Response.


                                     11.   THE REQUEST

3.      The Request was submitted by representatives o f a commune o f the Municipality
o f Phnom Penh (MPP). The representatives, together with the people they represent, are
collectively referred to as "the Requesters" or "REP" in this Response. The Requesters
asked the Panel to keep confidential their names, the names o f the people they represent
and the name o f the community.

4.      Confidentiality of Requesters, communities and sources. At their request, the
names o f the Requesters are treated as confidential in this Response. However, i t i s
important to note that on October 1, 2009, the nongovernmental organization (NGO) that
submitted the Request to the Panel issued a press release (jointly with another NGO) in
which i t identifies itself as the filer o f the Request on behalf o f Boeung Kak community
located in the area known as Sras Chok commune. In i t s press release, i t reiterated the

'   As IDA forms an integral part o f the World Bank Group, the acronym "IDA" and the term "the Bank"
    are used interchangeably in this Response.
Cambodia


Boeung Kak residents' request to remain anonymous. For the purpose o f this Response
and to facilitate the Board's understanding o f the issues, Management w i l l :

        Identify the geographic area relating to the Request, Le., Boeung K a k Lake (BKL)
        and Sras Chok commune, and provide maps (see M a p 2 and M a p 3); and

        Use the term "the Requesters" or "REP" when referring directly to the presenters
        o f the Request.

5.     Attached to the Request i s the Executive Summary o f a report'on the Project
prepared by several NGOs.

6.     The Request contains claims that the Panel has indicated may constitute violations
by the Bank o f various provisions o f i t s policies and procedures, including:

        OPBP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement3and

        OP/BP 13.05 Project Supervision.


                              1 1 PROJECT BACKGROUND
                               1.

7.           The Project was financed in part by an IDA Specific Investment Loan o f SDR19.3
m i l l i o n (US$24.3 million equivalent), which was approved by the Board o f Directors o f
IDA on February 26, 2002 and became effective on June 19, 2002. The remaining
balance o f the Credit was cancelled at the request o f the Royal Government o f Cambodia
(the Government) on September 7, 2009. At the time o f the cancellation, SDR13.36
million, approximately 69 percent o f the Credit amount, (US$19.9 m i l l i o n equivalent)
had been disbursed.

8.      The Project was the first phase of the Government's Land Administration,
Management and Distribution Program (LAMDP), which at the time o f appraisal
(October 2001) was expected to be implemented over a period o f fifteen years. The
objectives o f this Program, as expressed in the Government's Land Policy Statement o f
M a y 2001, are: (a) to strengthen land tenure security and land markets, and to prevent or
to resolve land disputes; (b) to manage land and natural resources in an equitable,
sustainable and efficient manner; and (c) to promote land distribution with equity.




'   "Untitled: Tenure Insecurity and Inequality in the Cambodian Land Sector" by Bridges Across Borders
    Southeast Asia (BABSEA), the Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions (COHRE), and the Jesuit
    Refugee Service (JRSC); Cambodia (October 2009).
    OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, was in effect at the time of the Project Concept Note Review and
    in Management's view i s the applicable resettlement policy for purposes of this Request.




                                                  2
                                                                         Management Response



PROJECT
      CONTEXT

Development and the Land Sector in Cambodia

9.     Cambodia has one o f the highest levels o f natural resource endowment per capita
in Southeast Asia in terms o f arable land, forest, fisheries and water resources. At the
same time, i t has one o f the highest poverty rates in the region.

10.     Cambodia has always been a predominantly agrarian society; even in the present
decade, more than 7 0 percent o f the population and a higher percentage o f the poor are
engaged in agriculture, and subsistence consumption absorbs 60-65 percent o f
agricultural output. The Khmer Rouge regime (1975-1979) was a catastrophe: it treated
the population savagely, executing those i t considered to be i t s enemies and brutally
enforcing i t s policies by overworking and abusing i t s o w n people. During that time, many
Cambodians also died from illness and malnutrition. The total number o f deaths i s
estimated at more than 1.5 million, including the bulk o f the middle class. The regime
also nationalized production and collectivized agriculture. The already weak economy
was destroyed, and the massive loss o f human capital resulted in extremely l o w capacity
levels throughout society and the economy.

11.     After the Khmer Rouge regime was deposed f r o m Phnom Penh and retreated to
the Thai Border in 1979, many people returned to subsistence farming. Most land
records, including cadastral maps and title registers, had been destroyed. A small
percentage o f land was distributed by the Government to families in 1988, and to
returnees f r o m refugee camps after the Paris Peace Accords in 1991. The predominant
pattern, however, was that the population occupied and farmed land that by default was
considered State land, through an informal system o f land-holding dependent on
recognition f r o m neighbors and local authorities. The economy gradually improved (by
the mid-l990s, Cambodia had become self-sufficient in rice production again) but even
by 1995 i t was performing at a level much lower than before 1975.

 12.      For almost twenty years after the Khmer Rouge regime, Cambodia struggled
through the aftermath o f destruction. The first ten years o f c i v i l war was followed by a
further decade o f negotiation to create peace and free elections, with massive external
support particularly from the United Nations (UN). Since the final capitulation o f the
Khmer Rouge in 1998, Cambodia has enjoyed peace and stability. I t more than doubled
i t s annual per capita income, from US$285 in 1997 to US$593 in 2007.4 This growth was
accompanied by a profound structural transformation, including integration into the
global economy, a shift o f jobs from agriculture to manufacturing, a demographic
transition, and population migration from rural to urban areas. This process o f growth and
structural change led to a significant reduction in poverty, from an estimated 45-50
percent in 1993-94 to 30 percent in 2007. M a n y other social indicators confirm the
improvements in welfare, particularly in health and education.


   "Sustaining Rapid Growth in a Challenging Environment":       Cambodia Country Economic
   Memorandum: World Bank, February 2009.




                                              3
Cambodia


13.        This economic growth, however, has been accompanied by rapidly increasing
i n e q ~ a l i t yWhile improvements in living standards at the top o f the income spectrum
                   .~
have been dramatic, progress ,for the less well-off has been gradual and subject to rapid
reversal in the face o f economic shocks (household, local, national and global). Recent
years have seen an increase in evictions and episodes o f violent land conflict, in Phnom
Penh, other important urban areas and in rural areas. The rapid increase i s attributable in
part to the high rate o f economic growth and rapidly escalating land prices throughout the
country. This trend has led to growing concerns about the viability o f land sector reforms
and has focused international attention o n the problem o f tenure insecurity.

14.      The tension between progress and marginalization has acute consequences for the
land sector. A new progressive legal framework has been established (the 2001 L a n d
Law), but other conflicting norms and incentives prevail. At the local level, this leads to
an "open-access" regime for land in many areas. "Encroachment" i s either anarchic or
loosely regulated by local officials. In both cases, tenure i s insecure, particularly for the
poor and those living on "the fringes" (certain urban settlements and areas on the verges
o f forests and lakes). Large interests in land are acquired through concession, lease or
sale, with official approval from central or sub-national authorities. The lack o f
transparency o f these processes has been acknowledged b y the Government. The new
institutions for State land management, established under the Land and Forest Laws and
associated sub-decrees, are geared to the development o f transparent processes for the
administration o f State lands, but, in practice, there have .often been significant
divergences from the law.

 15.    The Bank has been widely engaged in land and natural resource management.
As land underpins the access o f the poor to resources, i t i s a key sector for Cambodia's
development and has been at the center o f the engagement between the Bank and the
Government over the last decade. Policy reforms in land and natural resource
management are supported through analytical work, development policy operations, and
investment and technical support operations. T o better integrate the Bank's efforts across
land, forestry and biodiversity conservation, the Bank has developed a natural resource
management framework which i s used in i t s engagement with the Technical Working
Groups (TWGs) on land, agriculture, poverty, environment and water. Land issues are
also prominent in Bank studies on agrarian structures and in regular environmental and
economic monitoring reports.

16.      Land and natural resource management i s also one o f the three main policy
reform focus areas under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation (P071103, IDA
Grant No. H324-KH). The Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
(P065798, IDA Credit No. 3320 KH) piloted measures for ensuring sound management
o f protected areas, but the project, like others in the natural resource management sector,
was subject to investigation by the Department o f Institutional Integrity (INT). The
Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project (P0060003, IDA Credit 3365-
KH) was also the subject o f an Inspection Panel case and lessons learned from the

   Cambodia Equity and Development Report: World Bank, 2007.




                                              4
                                                                                    Management Response



Inspection Panel process have informed analytical work in the sector as w e l l as the design
o f the Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development (LASED) project
(P084787, IDA Credit 4441-KH), which addresses land distribution aspects and therefore
complements the land administration focus o f the Project.

17.    The land sector has attracted broad engagement and support from Development
Partners. The Project has been the major vehicle to date for donor support to the
Government's overarching LAMDP. Three o f the Development Partners, Canada,
Finland and Germany, provided co-financing or parallel-financing to the Project. The
Development Partners coordinate their support for LAMDP through the Technical
Working Group o n Land (TWG-L), which also includes representatives o f other
development agencies and c i v i l society organizatiom6 Germany, through the Deutsche
Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GTZ), provides technical
assistance to the Project in the areas o f policy development, dispute resolution, State land
management and titling. Finland supports the development o f a modern, multi-purpose
cadastre system. Canada, through the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), initially supported LAMDP and Project implementation with grant funding
managed by the Bank, but in 2008 i t began to provide direct support for technical
assistance and investments in three additional provinces, thus expanding the Project's
geographical scope. The L A S E D project i s also supported with co-financing from
Germany.

18.     Other Development Partners have also been active in the land sector. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB), together with the Bank and GTZ, contributed to the
formulation o f Cambodia's overarching land policy in 2001, which provided the basis for
the 2001 Land Law. M o r e recently, ADB has worked closely with the Ministry o f
Economy and Finance (MEF) in the development o f a draft resettlement policy and
related sub-decree. Denmark has taken a lead role in Participatory Land Use Planning and
Commune Land Use Planning. Between 2001 and 2005, UN Habitat,7 GTZ, the United
Kingdom's Department for International Development (DfLD) and Cities Alliance
supported an informal settlements program implemented by the MPP.'



    Several Development Partners have been involved in land sector discussions in recent years and are
    kept informed through communications from the Donor Co-Facilitators Germany and Canada. DPs
    include Ausaid, the European Commission, United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO),
    Heinrich Boll Foundation (HBF), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
    International Labour Organization (ILO), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Japan
    Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA), NGO Forum, Oxfam GB, Oxfam America, UN Office of the
    High Commission for Human Rights (UNOHCHR) and the United Nations Development Programme
    (UNDP).
'   United Nations Human Settlements ProgrammeKentre for Human Settlements (UNCHS).
*   The informal settlements program (Le,, the Phnom Penh Urban Poverty Reduction Project) sought to:
    (a) improve tenure security for urban low-income households in Phnom Penh; (b) review urban
    planning regulations, standards and administrative procedures; (c) identify sites to which households in
    environmentally hazardous or economically strategic locations could be moved; and (d) strengthen the
    capability o f central and local government agencies to undertake pro-poor programs for upgrading and




                                                    5
Cambodia


Legal Framework: The 2001 Land Law is Central to the Project

19.    Cambodia has made significant progress in developing the legal basis for private
and State property rights. A first post-conflict Land L a w in 1992 aimed at encouraging
land registration but did not provide a clear mechanism or process by which registration
could occur.

20.      The adoption o f the Land L a w in August 2001 represented a fundamental reform
o f land law and administration in Cambodia. A range o f observers, including critics o f the
Government, recognize the law as providing a solid framework for defining and securing
the land rights o f citizens and addressing the institutional weaknesses o f the land sector
caused by years o f war, deliberate destruction and n e g l e ~ t . ~ T h e
                                                                         adoption o f the 2001
Land L a w was indispensable for the implementation o f the Project.

21.      The 2001 Land L a w addresses the deficiencies o f the previous law in a number o f
key ways. First, i t clarifies the nature o f property rights and how they are acquired or
determined. I t clearly allows ownership o f all types o f land, and protects owners from the
taking o f land by the State without just and prior compensation. Communal as well as
individual land rights are provided for, with special provision for recognizing the claims
o f indigenous groups.

22.     The 2001 Land L a w also sets out a two-tiered definition o f land held by the State
(approximately two thirds o f the country)." State Public Land i s land that falls into
certain categories (including property that has a "natural origin such as forests, lakes and
riverbanks" and other areas that are "made available for public use" such as parks and
roadways)." State public land cannot be sold or subject to land concessions or long-term
leases," nor i s i t subject to possession rights.13State Private Land i s all State land that i s
not State Public Land. As explained below, it i s subject to possession rights in certain
circumstances. State Public Land can be converted to State Private Land if it i s
considered to have lost i t s public interest use. According to Article 16 o f the Land Law,




   new urban development. The program identified BKL as an informal settlement in i t s final report:
   "Increasing tenure security and options for new housing in Phnom Penh, " Cambodia (2004).
   See: Land and Housing Rights in Cambodia Parallel Report 2009 Submitted to the United Nations
   Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights: Land and Housing Working Group (2009)
   available at: http://~ww2.ohchr.orrr/er~~lish/bodies/ce~cr/docs/nnos/CHRE    Cambodia CESCR42.pdf;
   and Land law reform: achieving development policy objectives: John W. Bruce, ed. (World Bank,
   2006).
   Including 3.3 million hectares (18 percent o f total area of the country) o f protected areas and 8.1
   million hectares (44 percent) of forest estate, and urban (high value) land.
   Land Law (2001), Article 15.
   Land Law (2001), Article 16.
   Land Law (2001), Article 16 (see discussion of extraordinary acquisitive possession below).




                                                  6
                                                                                      Management Response



such conversion requires the passage o f a Law - in other words, a Sub-Decree or Prukus
would not be sufficient for this purpose.14

23.     The cornerstone of the 2001 Land Law i s the right o f a person to claim a
possessory right over land leading to ownership (extraordinary acquisitive possession) in
the following circumstances:

         The person possessed the property prior to August 30, 200115 and the possession
         of property was unambiguous, non-violent, notorious to the public,16 continuous
         and in good faith."

         The person acquired or inherited the property in good faith from someone who
         was a legitimate possessor as set out in the bullet above.''

         The land in question must be able to be lawfully possessed - most importantly, i t
         cannot be State Public Land.lg B y contrast, State Private Land on which people
         had settled prior to August 30, 2001 i s frequently the object o f claims to
         possessory rights.

24.      The 2001 Land Law also puts in place the key features o f a modern land
administration system, thus providing a solid basis for the registration and titling
activities and the institution building that the Project was designed to support. Title V I o f
the Law (on Cadastre) provides for both systematic titling (covering all holdings in a
given area) and sporadic titling ("on demand" titling, covering one parcel at a time).
When read together with the relevant implementing regulations, i t provides the legal
basis for the adjudication of rights through a transparent and participatory process,
including the mediation of disputes at field level and the resolution o f disputes by a
newly-created Cadastral Commission.2oThe 2001 Land Law also consolidates in the




14
     Royal Decree 08061339, dated August 2006 on `Temporary principles and rules on transferring the
     public property of the State and public legal entities to private property o f the State" does state that
     conversion from State Public Land to State Private Land can be effected by Sub-Decree. This appears
     to conflict with above-mentioned provisions o f Article 16 o f the Land Law. In the event o f a
     discrepancy, a Law i s considered superior to a Royal Decree.
15
     Land Law (2001), Article 30.
16
     A legal term meaning conspicuous, capable o f being observed by others, not hidden or secret.
17
     Land Law (2001), Articles 32 and 38.
18
     Land Law (2001), Articles 39 and 71.
19
     Land Law (2001), Articles 16 and 43.
20
     The Cadastral Commission has primary jurisdiction in disputes over unregistered land. The National
     Cadastral Commission i s chaired by the Minister for LMUPC and can adjudicate disputes. Provincial
     and District level commissions have also been established. At these levels the Commission only has
     the power to conciliate. Decisions o f the Cadastral Commission are subject to judicial review (see:
     Land Law (2001) Article 47 and Sub-decree No. 47 o f 2002 on the Organization and Functioning o f
     the Cadastral Commission).




                                                      7
Cambodia



Cadastral Administration exclusive jurisdiction to ``determine the owner, the nature and
the measurement o f land.yy21

25.    At the time o f Project commencement, several Sub-Decrees and Regulations
remained to be drafted for implementation o f the 2001 Land Law. These were to be
addressed during Project implementation 22 and included detailed procedures for
systematic titling, sporadic titling, the Cadastral Commission, State land management,
economic concessions, social land concessions (SLCs) and titling o f indigenous lands.

      DESCRIPTION
PROJECT

26.     The Project was designed as the first phase of a longer term program to support
     f                                                                   in
two o the three foundations of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)23 effect at the
time: (a) good governance, including an efficient and accountable public administration
and a credible legal and judicial framework that safeguards basic human and property
rights; and (b) greater access for the poor to basic social services and economic
opportunities.

27.    The Project Development Objectives specified in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) were to improve the security of land tenure for urban and
                                                          f
agricultural land holders and to promote the development o efficient land markets
through: (a) the development o f adequate national policies, a regulatory framework, and
institutions for land administration; (b) the issuance and regulation o f titles in rural and
urban areas; and (c) the establishment o f an efficient and transparent land administration


28.    Project components. The Project, initially designed to be implemented in eleven
provinces25and municipalities, had five components (DCA Schedule 2, PAD, page 8 and
PAD Annex 2):26



21
     Land Law (2001), Article 235.
22
     Two dated covenants were included in the DCA: (a) issue, no later than July 1, 2002, the sub-decree
     setting forth the organization and functions of the cadastral administration. This was done in May
     2002; and (b) issue, no later than December 31, 2002, a ministerial instruction, setting forth the
     detailed implementation arrangements for the Cadastral Commissions. This was done in August 2002.
     The legislative piece that lagged seriously behind was the sub-decree on indigenous peoples' access to
     land, which was only issued in early 2009.
23
     Report No. IDAIR2000-15 [IFC/R2000-231
24
     Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) articulates the objectives as: "The objectives
      f
     o the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to implement the Program, which includes: ( i )
                        f
     the development o adequate national policies, a regulatory framework and institutions for land
     administration: (ii) the issuance and regulation o titles in rural and urban areas in the Project
                                                          f
     Provinces: and (iii) the establishment o an ejjicient and transparent land administration system."
                                             f
25
     The Project area was later expanded to 14 provinces.
26
     In the D C A these components are described as "Part A, Part B, etc   ..." For the sake o f clarity this
     Response will use the PAD terminology Le., "component."




                                                     8
                                                                 Management Response



Component I : The development of land policy and a regulatory framework (Total
cost US$2.8 million, of which IDA US$1.8 million). The component was designed
to support the formulation o f policies for land administration, management and
distribution through: (a) the development o f the capacity o f the Secretariat o f the
Council for Land Policy (CLP) in policy analysis and development; (b) the
formulation o f key policies in the areas o f land management, administration and
distribution; (c) the drafting o f sub-decrees for the implementation o f the 2001
Land L a w and other legal instruments needed to implement the Project; and (d)
the dissemination o f policies, laws and procedures.

Component 2: Institutional development (Total cost US$6.4 million, of which IDA
US$3.7 million). The component was designed to provide support to four main
areas: (a) the long-term institutional development o f the Ministry o f Land
Management, Urban Planning and Construction (MLMUPC); (b) Project
management to implement the Project; (c) the establishment o f a land
management and administration education program in an established university;
and (d) the development o f the private surveying industry.

Component 3: A land titling program and the development o a land registration
                                                               f
system (Total cost US$20.4 million, of which IDA US$16.7 million). The
component's purpose was to support the issuance o f first time land titles and the
establishment o f a land registration system to register land transactions, to
include: (a) information dissemination and community organization; (b) a
systematic land titling program; (c) a sporadic land titling program; and (d) the
development o f an efficient, transparent and effective land registration system.

Component 4: The strengthening of mechanisms for the resolution of land
disputes (Total cost US$I.7 million, of which IDA US$I.O million). The
component was designed to strengthen the resolution o f disputes by the
MLMUPC as an element in the provision o f tenure security in the titling process.
The National Cadastral Commission (NCC) was to be established according to a
framework approved by the CLP under one or more sub-decrees; the component's
purpose was to build the institutional capacity o f the NCC through the provision
o f technical assistance, office equipment, maps, training, public education and
vehicles. The component was also to provide support through the M L M U P C to
the Cadastral Commissions at provincial (and, in some cases, district) level with
similar inputs. Because parties bringing disputes before the commissions were
expected to have significantly different financial resources, the component was
also designed to contract selected national NGOs to provide legal aid services to
the poor and disadvantaged in land disputes.

Component 5: Land management (Total cost US$2.6 million, of which IDA
US$I.I million). Before the Project, there were no maps showing the different
classes o f land tenure and land use arrangements. The purpose o f the component
was to support the MLMUPC in preparing land use and classification maps in the
Project provinces through: (a) the clarification o f procedures for the definition o f
different classes o f land (such as forest land, protected area land, private land,


                                      9
Cambodia



            State Public and Private Land, and others); (b) the procurement o f aerial
            photographs and satellite images, as needed; and (c) the preparation o f land
            classification maps for each o f the Project provinces (showing the boundaries o f
            forests, protected areas, land under private, public and concession use, etc.).

                         Table 1. Project Financing Plan at Appraisal (US$ million)



     InternaSonal Development Association                       15.70             8.60             24.30

     Borrowr                                                    2.60              0.00              2.60

     IF inland: The Ministry for Foreign Affairs           I    0.31       I      3.19       I      3.50       I
     Germany: The Federal Ministry for Economic
                                                                0.31              3.19              3.50
     Cooperation and Development (BMZ)

                                                   Total        18.92            14.98             33.90


29.    Project Coordination and Oversight. The MLMUPC was responsible for overall
Project implementation and a Project Management Office (PMO), headed by a Project
Director, was established within MLMUPC to coordinate Project activities. The Project
Director reported to the Senior Minister, MLMUPC on matters o f Project implementation
and to the C L P through i t s General Secretariat (GSCLP) when seeking policy guidance.
Following Sub-decree No. 46 on Procedures o Establishing Cadastral Index Map and
                                                  f
Land Register, the ProvincialLvIunicipal Governor (under the Ministry o f Interior) was
responsible for the declaration o f adjudication areas ("declaration" o f an adjudication
area launched the process o f systematic land titling). Following declaration and the
formation o f an Administrative Commission, " i t was possible for Land Registration
Teams (LRTs) from the Project to enter and begin the process o f training, information
gathering and public awareness in preparation for land titling.




21
       Under Sub-decree 46 (ANWBK of May 31, 2002 on the Procedures to Establish Cadastral Index Map
       and Land Register), the duties o f the Administrative Commission were to: (a) arrange the public
       display o f the cadastral index map and the l i s t o f owners; (b) receive all complaints, investigate and
       resolve in accordance with the agreement; (c) make a conclusion on the adjudication record; and (d)
       make a proposal for providing the right to land to the occupants, or owners, or for keeping the land as
       State property. Membership o f the Administrative Commission includes:
            1
                Representative o f the ProvincialMunicipal Governor, Chairman;
            1   Field Manager as Cadastral Officer, member;
            1   Officer responsible for cadastral administration o f the Office of Land Management, Urban
                Planning, Construction and Cadastre, member;
            1
                DistricVKhan Governor or his representative, member;

            .
            1




            1
                Chief o f Commune/Sungkut or his representative, member;
                Chief of Village or his representative, member;
                Two trustees (elders) o f the adjudication area, members.




                                                           10
                                                                                    Management Response



30.     Resettlement under the Project. The PAD stated that n o eviction, involuntary
resettlement or land acquisition was anticipated under the Project. Nevertheless, the D C A
provided that the Project had to be carried out in accordance with Environmental and
Social Guidelines (ESG) including a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) that would
be triggered in the case o f "evictions from state land (...) under Parts C (b) and (c) o the
                                                                                         f
Project" (those relating to systematic and sporadic titling).

3 1.     The RPF provided that it would apply to people negatively impacted from three
possible sources. These were: (a) the eviction f r o m State land o f individuals who had
occupied it prior to August 30, 2001, the date o f the enactment o f the 2001 Land Law,
                                                                   *'
following titling o f such land in the name o f the State; (b) the eviction from State land
titled in the name o f the State o f individuals who had occupied i t prior to August 30,
2001, because o f the need to use such land for the carrying out o f c i v i l works under the
Project; and (c) the extension by the State o f Right o f Way (ROW) claims that adversely
affected possession rights. The RPF was intended to ensure that people who "may be
negatively afSected by the Project will be assisted to improve, or at least restore their
living standards, income andor production capacity to pre-project levels."

32.      L i k e comprehensive titling programs elsewhere, the titling component o f the
Project was by necessity designed to be implemented sequentially, with titling teams
focusing o n selected adjudication areas first and then moving on to other areas as
previous areas were completed. Such an approach i s dictated by a variety o f financial,
institutional, technological and human capacity constraints that make i t impossible for
titling to be carried out in all places simultaneously. Management has also taken the view
that, although there is no explicit discussion in the PAD on the issue, the application o f
the RPF was intended to follow the same sequencing; as the Project engaged in or
supported titling in each newly-declared systematic adjudication area (DCA, Schedule 2,
Part C.b) or supported sporadic titling in new locations (DCA, Schedule 2, Part C.c), the
coverage o f the RPF would expand accordingly. At the same time, due to the Project's'
sequenced approach, and due further to the fact that full coverage o f any given Project
province would not be achieved during the l i f e o f the Project, Management has concluded
that Project design clearly albeit implicitly contemplated that there would be areas in
which the Project was not and would not be active and where i t was not contemplated
that the RPF would apply.



28
     As originally drafted, the RPF focused only on potential displacement associated with civil works and
     ROW extension. I t was only shortly before the Safeguards Meeting in September 2001 that reference
     to evictions from State land following titling was added. The addition of this language reflected
     evolving thinking within the Bank at that time as advanced drafts o f what i s now OP 4.12 were being
     discussed. Up to that time, land titling was not explicitly considered in Bank policy or practice as an
     activity that might result in or contribute to involuntary resettlement. B y contrast, in discussions
     surrounding the drafting o f OP 4.12, the potential for displacement associated with land titling was
     addressed. A decision was made to distinguish between the effects o f conflicting claims of private
     parties over private land, to which the policy would not apply, and conflicts involving claims from
     private parties residing on State land, in which case the policy would apply. The Project RPF was the
     first such Bank document to reflect this approach.




                                                     11
Cambodia


33.     The Project was considered to be a "high risk" undertaking at appraisal.
The Project was understood in advance to be complex and ambitious because i t sought to
deal simultaneously with multiple issues in land management and administration that
were the legacy o f the destruction that accompanied the period o f Khmer Rouge rule. The
unavoidable complexity o f the Project and the backdrop o f political and administrative
inefficiency (ranging f r o m a lack o f competence through to corruption) necessarily meant
that the Project was a risky undertaking. The PAD Critical Risks assessment (Section F,
paragraph 2) rated the overall risk as "substantial" and procurement and financial
management risk as "high" (Section E, paragraphs 4.3. and 4.4).

34.      Three risks identified in the Critical Risks matrix o f the PAD are directly relevant
to this Response: (a) that governance does not improve; (b) that Government lacks
commitment to ensuring the functioning o f the dispute resolution mechanism; and (c) that
Government entities and other stakeholders are not able to reach agreement on the
process o f land classification. After more than seven years o f Project implementation, i t
i s evident that these risks did indeed materialize. In the case o f the risk relating to dispute
resolution the mitigation measure proposed to "scale back the Project if the
(government's) commitment to a fair process o dispute resolution is inadequate " was
                                                    f
only considered starting in early 2009 when concerns over an acceleration o f evictions
led Management to commission an Enhanced Review Mission (see below paragraph 45).
Similarly, the PAD suggested that the risk o f not reaching agreement on the process o f
land classification could be overcome by supporting a "consultation process to build
broad consensusfor decisions" and "technical assistance to the council o land policy to
                                                                                f
reach consensus among the various government agencies." A more detailed analysis o f
the political economy context would likely have identified this view as overly optimistic
and that: (a) success in this respect depended on high-level inter-agency coordination; (b)
consultation would not necessarily lead to consensus; and (c) numerous actors had strong
incentives not to proceed with a transparent and public interest based classification and
registration o f State land.

35.     The PAD stated that "the Project will not title land in areas where disputes are
likely until agreements are reached on the status of the land.'' The PAD drew attention
to the potential problem that could be caused by the need to classify land and demarcate
the boundaries between public and private domains and between tracts o f land under the
control o f different government entities, stating that this ``...will often be difJicult and
may increase disputes in the short run."

36.     The PAD also made it clear that Project-supported titling processes would not
issue titles to "informal" settlers or "squatters" on State land.29 other words, the
                                                                      In
Project was not envisaged as a program for regularizing informal settlements; titling in
such areas would only occur if Government had first elected to provide the land to the
informal settlers and had taken steps to legalize their occupation in concert with NGOs


29
     That is, people occupying State land who do not qualify for the issuance of title under the 2001 Land
     Law (see paragraph 23 above).




                                                    12
                                                                                     Management Response



specializing in micro-credit, community organizing and architectural urban planningS3'In
the early years o f the Project, efforts were under way to address informal settlements
through a separate informal settlement program supported by UNCHS, GTZ, DfID and
Cities Alliance (PAD, page 20, second and third paragraphs and PAD, pages 87-88; see
also paragraph 17 and footnote 7 in this response). That program was discontinued in
2004, and was not replaced; as a result, for the last five years there has been no program
to regularize tenure in informal settlements in a manner that would allow them to be titled
under the Project.

STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION

37.      The Project's main achievements. Cambodia has never had a comprehensive
land register and as mentioned above land administration systems and expertise that had
been in place were destroyed by the Khmer Rouge. The initial conditions were such that
the early emphasis o f the Project had to be on: (a) creating the regulatory framework to
enable implementation o f land registration activities under the 2001 Land Law; (b)
developing policies, procedures and systems; and (c) training and capacity building for
land registration and land dispute resolution. After a slow start-up because o f these
difficult conditions, the Project took significant steps to establish a modem land
administration system which resulted, notably, in the registering and titling o f more than
 1.1 million parcels o f land at an estimated cost o f US$11 per title (c& the estimate at
appraisal of US$30 per title). K e y elements o f the policy and regulatory framework for
State land management and administration were also delivered (e.g., national policies on
SLCs, in 2003; on State land management in 2004; on economic land concessions in
2005; and on Indigenous People's Land in 2009). However, because o f a weak results
framework, achievements against the Project development objectives are difficult to
assess. In the absence o f relevant baseline data or a defined methodology for collecting
data, the improvement in land tenure security cannot be measured. For the improvement
o f the land market, a beneficiary assessment carried out in 2006 showed an increase in
land transactions and the M L M U P C reported an increase in taxes and fees collection for
the period 2004-2007 (prior to the Financial Crisis). Similarly, the achievements o f the
Project have been uneven across components and sub-components, as noted below.

38.     Implementation progress. A description o f the current status o f implementation
o f the Project's five components and eighteen sub-components i s provided in Annex 2.
This includes a matrix o f componentshb-components and their implementation status.
After seven years o f implementation, total disbursements have reached SDR13.36 million
(US$19.9 million) as o f September 7, 2009, the date o f cancellation o f the remaining



30
     The PAD (page 20) recognizes that "neither the World Bank nor the Ministry of Land has the
     comparative advantage in dealing with informal settlers and squatters. I t i s better for the Project to
     support the development groups currently working in this field." For the Project to address this issue
     directly, a different institutional and implementation approach would have been required (PAD, pages
     87-88). However, the PAD also emphasizes the need to "coordinate closely" between the Project and
     informal settlement programs.




                                                     13
Cambodia


balance o f the Credit, 31 or approximately 69.2 percent o f the Credit.                           32   Key
implementation progress by component, as o f June 2009, i s described below.

          Component I : The development o land policy and a regulatory framework:
                                                f
          (US$0.2 million disbursed, 11 percent o f the original estimated cost).33 The
          implementation o f this component was assessed in the latest Implementation
          Status and Results Report (ISR, Sequence#17, yet to be archived) as'
          "satisfactory." K e y results included: (a) helping formulate land policies and
          regulations necessary for the implementation o f all three pillars o f the land sector
          program; working in collaboration with ADB and GTZ technical assistance, the
          Project supported the drafting o f Sub-decrees and Prakas (or regulations) on a
          number o f subjects, including for systematic titling, sporadic titling, the Cadastral
          Commission, State land management, economic concessions, SLCs and titling o f
          indigenous lands; and (b) enabling increased revenue collection from both land
          taxes and transaction fees. The remaining challenges include the need to develop
          regulations and institutional arrangements for land valuation, and to rationalize
          land taxation rates and procedures so that the majority o f "subsequent
          transactions'' are formally registered.

         Component 2: Institutional development: (US$4.7 million disbursed, 127 percent
         o f the original estimated cost). The implementation o f this component was
         assessed as "moderately satisfactory" as i t provided support for: (a) the
         establishment and operation o f key administrative functions for land titling within
         the MLMUPC - units for Technical Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation, Public
         Relations, Procurement, Finance and Administration Units, as well as the Internal
         Auditor; and (b) developing a university degree in land management and
         administration. The remaining challenges include the need to restructure the
         M L M U P C to conform to the new Organic Law, to forge inter-ministerial
         coordination in support o f State land management, and to develop a privately
         operated surveying service.

         Component 3: Land titling program and development o a land registration
                                                                          f
         system (US$13.8 million disbursed, 83 percent o f the original estimated cost).
         This component has been the most successful. K e y results by June 2009 include
         over 1.47 million land parcels surveyed, 1.13 million titles signed and 1.07
         m i l l i o n titles distributed to beneficiaries. LRTs contributed to these results by
         implementing public awareness campaigns, providing training to Administrative


31
     Disbursements are equivalent to 69.2 percent of the Credit when expressed in SDR and to 66.2 percent
     when expressed in US$.
32
     Canada, through CIDA, provided co-financing (US$2.3 million equivalent) to the Project that was
     managed through a trust fund (TF053043). The undisbursed balance o f the trust fund (approximately
     US$1.363 million) was cancelled on October 9, 2009. Canada has also provided two Bank-executed
     trust funds (TF094044 and TD09045) that are s t i l l active. Finland and Germany are providing parallel
     financing.
33
     IDA disbursement figures estimated at the time of cancellation.




                                                     14
                                                                Management Response



Councils and disseminating information on the land titling process at village level
although, as discussed below, the Project did not recruit an NGO to lead Public
Awareness and Participation Activities as anticipated in the PAD (see paragraph
68). Remaining challenges include promoting increased transparency in access to
cadastral information; clearing the obstacles to subsequent registration; and
supporting ways to ensure that the titling process i s better targeted to poor and
vulnerable groups.

Component 4: Strengthening mechanisms for dispute resolution (US$0.4 million
disbursed, 40 percent o f the original estimated cost). Results were mixed under
this component, which was rated as "moderately unsatisfactory." The component
helped to establish the N C C and create provincial and district-level commissions
for mediating land disputes. A joint review o f the NCC supported by GTZ and the
Bank in 2006 highlighted i t s lack o f decision-making capacity and confirmed
weaknesses in treating complex multi-party cases, and those involving the State or
"powerful individuals". Legal assistance for the disadvantaged was piloted with
GTZ support, but the Project was not successful in recruiting NGOs to continue
this work (see paragraph 68). The effectiveness o f the NCC i s limited somewhat
by the failure o f the Project to procure legal aid services, but more fundamentally
by the fact that i t i s embedded in the same systems o f weak governance that are
also the root cause o f the more challenging land disputes that come before it. The
lack o f an independent mechanism for dispute resolution (the courts suffering
from the same core problems as the NCC) i s a fundamental challenge to the
development o f equitable systems for land management and administration in
Cambodia.

Component 5: Land management (US$0.8 million disbursed, 74 percent o f the
original estimated cost). The key results from this component, which was rated as
"unsatisfactory", were limited to the development o f procedures for land
classification and the procurement o f aerial photographs needed to support land
classification as well as land titling. Implementation o f State land mapping and
related processes was limited to pilot operations including areas selected for
SLCs, three indigenous communal land titling pilots, and a forest demarcation
pilot run through an international conservation NGO. The primary challenge in
this field i s the underlying incentives that various government agencies and actors
have to maintain a high level o f discretion in the management o f State assets and
thus keep State land outside o f a system which promotes transparent and
participatory decision-making in the public interest. The Land Management Sub-
sector Program (LMSSP), through i t s attempt to mobilize critical inter-ministerial
coordination, focuses in part on addressing these difficult issues. As with
Component 4, i t should be acknowledged that the realization o f transparent, rule-
based systems for land management that cover significant State assets would
require a transformation o f governance which numerous actors across the system
have strong incentives to resist. For these reasons, Component 5 has only been
partially implemented (see paragraph 68).




                                     15
Cambodia


      MILESTONES
PROJECT

39.     The key milestones o f the Project's history are summarized in Table 2 below.

                              Table 2. Summary o Key Milestones
                                                f



Identification Mission                                  July 12-24,2000
Concept Review Meeting                                  November 30,2000
PreparationMission                                      April 23-27,2001
Consultative Group Meeting (Tokyo)                      June 12-13,200 1
Pre-appraisalMission                                    July 5-17, 2001
Decision Meeting                                        October 4,2001
Appraisal Mission                                       October 22-29,2001
Technical Discussions                                   December 7-10. 2001




Enhanced Review Mission                                 March 30 - April 12,2009
Enhanced Review Mission Final Report                    July 13,2009
Cancellation of UndisbursedFunds by the Borrower        September 7,2009
Revised Closing Date                                    December 3 1.2009



40.      Credit Effectiveness (June 2002). The relatively short period (of just less than
two years) that elapsed between the initial Project identification and the declaration o f
effectiveness o f the IDA Credit reflects the priority given by the Bank and the Borrower
to the issues.

41.     Fiduciary Review (July 2004). Between July 2004 and September 2005, the East
Asia Region undertook a Fiduciary Review jointly with the assistance o f the Government
and with the Bank's INT. Following the Review, INT independent investigations
uncovered evidence o f corruption, collusion and fraudulent practices on 49 contracts in
seven Bank-financed projects (of which four, including the Project, were under
implementation and three were already closed at the time o f the investigation). The
results o f this investigation were transmitted t o the Region in M a y 2006.

42.                  f
       Suspension o disbursements under the Credit (June 2006). As a result o f the
INT investigation, disbursements o f the Credit supporting the Project were suspended on
June 6, 2006, because o f mis-procurement o n 17 c i v i l works contracts. The mis-
procurement resulted in a cancellation o f a portion o f the Credit and a refund o f certain
disbursements. In addition, serious fiduciary concerns had been identified related to


                                                   16
                                                                                       Management Response



performance-based field allowances and delays in the implementation o f good
governance measures. The Project's Internal Auditor had also identified serious issues
regarding informal payments and the misuse o f vehicles and equipment. The suspension
o f disbursements, coupled with the Government's objections to the investigation process
(and the approach to sharing information about the evidence o f corruption), led to a
constrained dialogue between the Bank and the Government.

43.     Lifting o suspension (February 2007). For the Bank to lift the suspension o f
                 f
disbursement, the MLMUPC had to meet the following requirements aimed at reviewing
design and reducing fiduciary risks: (a) review the design o f the Project and agree on a
revised scope; (b) appoint an Independent Procurement Agent to undertake all
outstanding procurement activities; (c) apply fiduciary control mechanisms; (d) apply
good governance measures to combat corruption and fraud; and (e) undertake a review o f
existing and proposed technical assistance. On February 5, 2007, the Bank lifted the
suspension after determining that the Government had met these conditions.

44'.    Extension ofthe Closing Date. On December 31, 2007, the Closing Date o f the
Credit was extended by two years, until December 3 1,2009, with strong support from the
Development Partners. The rationale for extension, in addition to compensating for the
months o f disbursement suspension, cited: (a) the continued progress o f Project
implementation, especially in the areas o f policy formulation, educational development
and systematic titling in rural areas; (b) the Project's success in issuing land titles, having
reached the target o f one million adjudicated titles; (c) the submission of outstanding
audit reports and corresponding efforts to improve management oversight o f
performance-based field allowances; and (d) the pending negotiations to install an
Independent Procurement Agent. Building on this success, the extension expanded the
Project to three new provinces to be largely funded by CIDA. There were also at that
time internal debates within the Regional Management Team on the duration o f the
extension. A key reason for the two-year extension was to allow for the procurement o f
five ICB c i v i l work contracts under International Competitive Bidding to be completed
by November 2009. Moreover, the extension would allow for deeper work o n land
policies, institutional reform and incentives for land administration officials. Reflecting
the focus on fiduciary matters in the aftermath o f the INT investigations and suspension
o f disbursements, the extension o f the Closing Date imposed four conditions related to
special audits and reconciling payments made for titles delivered, which had only been
partially met by the time o f the ~ a n c e l l a t i o n . ~ ~


34
     Progress in implementation o f covenants agreed at the time o f extension was as follows: (a) an ageing
     analysis which links payment made for titles delivered and titles adjudicated but not yet delivered was
     completed; (b) a re-designed Performance-Based Incentive Scheme (PBIS) was completed in January
     2009; (c) the delivery o f the titles which had been adjudicated has seen very little progress; and (d) the
     contracting, by May 3 1, 2008 of an independent technical auditor has not been completed to date. The
     requirement to conduct the technical audit was reiterated to the Government (letter of October 8, 2009)
     and i t was proposed to the Government that IDA funds could be used to finance this special audit for
     which an escrow account would be created. Formal confirmation by the Government of i t s agreement
     i s expected.




                                                      17
Cambodia


45.     Enhanced Review Mission (March-April 2009). In response to concerns raised
following the eviction o f Dey Krahorm residents on January 24, 200935       and threats o f
eviction in other communities, 36 Management requested a Lead Counsel f r o m the
Environmental and International L a w Unit (LEGEN), who had not previously worked on
the Project, and a Senior Social Scientist (former Bank Staff) to undertake an Enhanced
Review Mission (ERM) to Cambodia in late March. The Review team was asked to
assess the contribution that the Project had made or should make to secure land tenure
rights and resolve land disputes, including in urban areas. The ERM report, presented in
Annex 3,37 concluded that the Project had delivered clear benefits but also highlighted
several shortcomings in Project design, implementation and supervision. The ERM found
a disconnect between the Project's institutional, legal and policy achievements and
continuing insecurity o f land tenure for the poor. The report noted with concern that local
authorities were excising land from some adjudication areas without following proper
procedures to discuss and agree on boundaries with local communities and without
facilitating access to information and dispute resolution mechanisms. The Review team
made concrete recommendations on remedial measures and on areas to pursue through
further discussion with Government counterparts and other Development Partners, and
which provided important inputs to the formulation o f Management's course o f actions
since July 2009.


                                     IV. SPECIAL ISSUES

46.     The Requesters claim that the Bank failed to comply fully with i t s policies and
procedures on resettlement and Project supervision. Management proposes to address
these claims under two headings:
       Issues related to Boeung Kak Lake evictions and resettlement; and
       Issues related to Project implementation and supervision.

BOELJNG KAK LAKE
               RESETTLEMENT I S S U E

47.   This section describes the events surrounding the involuntary resettlement from
the BKL area as well as the actions undertaken by Management since February 2009.
Management also addresses the Requesters' claims regarding: (a) deviation from


   Concerns that were raised with the Bank on February 18,2009 by BABSEA.
   Hundreds of families had lived and worked for decades in Dey Krahorm, a market area in central
   Phnom Penh. In the early hours of January 24,2009, police and workmen set up road blocks and began
   to demolish houses and businesses. Families fled in semi-darkness as bulldozers destroyed their
   houses. B y noon, more than 100 families had been evicted and transported to a remote site that lacked
   even the most basic facilities. On July 17, police entered the area known as "Group 78" in Phnom
   Penh's Tonle Bassac commune (adjacent to Dey Krahorm) to dismantle homes and remove families.
   A l l but one family took cash compensation and left the area. Police then forcibly destroyed the house
   of the remaining family.
   The ERM Report, dated July 13, 2009 i s also available on the following website o f the World Bank
   Office in Cambodia: htt~://siteresources. o r l d b n n k . o r ~ N T C A M R O D ~ A
                                           w




                                                   18
                                                                                   Management Response



established legal procedures; (b) application o f ESG, including the RPF; and (c) effects o f
Project activities o n customary tenure.

48.    Chronology of Key             Annex 4 provides a detailed timeline o f the events
surrounding the adjudication o f the BKL area (see Maps 2 and 3), the subsequent
treatment o f the area by the Government and the Municipality o f Phnom Penh (MPP),
and the response o f the Bank, donors and NGOs. For purposes o f this discussion, the key
events are as follows:

         Declaration as an adjudication area. Sras Chok commune (in which the BKL
         area i s situated) was declared part o f an adjudication area for systematic titling
         under the Project in M a y 2006.

         Demarcation and display. The demarcation (gathering o f survey data in relation
         to parcels o f land) o f the area was carried out under the Project at some time
         between M a y 2006 and January 2007. The public display o f the results o f
         demarcation i s recorded as having occurred between January 4 and February 2,
         2007. Management understands, based on recently gathered information, that
         claims from occupants o f land in the BKL area o f Sras Chok commune were not
         considered during the demarcation process or display period.

         Assertion that the area was State Public Land. During a brief supervision mission
         visit at BKL in June 2008, Project staff informed Development Partners that MPP
         claimed that the BKL area was State Public Land. I t was explained to the Mission
         that households in the area were therefore excluded from titling, because i t i s not
         possible under the Land L a w to assert private claims o f legal possession to State
         Public Land. Management has not received any evidence to support MPP's
         assertion that the BKL area was State Public Land.

         Plans for private development o the area. Despite assertions that the land in
                                        f
         question was State Public Land, and hence could not be claimed through legal
         possession b y residents, plans for private development were well advanced prior
         to the declaration o f the area as an adjudication area. Copies o f official letters
         recently obtained by the Task Team indicate that Government had already
         approved "in principle" the development o f the BKL area in accordance with the
         S h ~ k a k u ~ ~ m a splan in August 2005 (nine months prior to the declaration the
                                 ter
         adjudication area).40A further letter from the Government to the Governor o f
         Phnom Penh, dated January 2006 (also prior to the declaration o f Sras Chok as an
         adjudication area), indicates that the Government "agrees with" the Shukaku

38
     Given available documentation, the following discussion reflects Management's current understanding
     of the situation. Following a Safeguards Mission in August 2009, the Bank requested information from
     the Government to confirm the facts around the adjudication o f the BKL area. To date, no response has
     been received.
39
     Shukaku Inc. i s the development company that leased the BKL area from the MPP in February 2007.
40
     Letter Number 1274 S.Ch.N. o f the Office o f Council of Ministers, dated August 5, 2005.




                                                    19
Cambodia



         development, understanding that the proposal will involve the filling o f all but ten
         hectares of BKL as w e l l as dealing with the issue o f "anarchic" settlements in the
         area.41Final approval for the development appears to have been granted by the
         Prime Minister on January 25, 2007, with the MPP being sent authorization to
         sign the lease with Shukaku on January 30, 200742(subsequent to the declaration
         o f Sras Chok as an adjudication area but prior to completion o f the titling
         process).

         Only village boundaries demarcated. According to information provided by
         M L M U P C staff in June 2008, in the villages around BKL only the village
         boundaries were demarcated during the systematic titling process and no
         demarcation o f individual parcel boundaries was undertaken. Ownership in the
         area i s understood to be shown o n cadastral records as "unknown". This appears
         to be the classification that i s generally used when State Public Land i s
         encountered during the titling process as well as when land i s subject to a dispute
         that cannot be resolved during the titling process at the field level.

         On the basis o information currently available, it seems that only one title was
                        f
         issued in the name o the State as a result o the systematic adjudication process.
                               f                     f
         Management understands that one title was issued to the State for a public gas
         depot in Sras Chok Village 3 (which i s part o f the BKL area). Beyond this, to the
         best o f Management's knowledge, no title in the name o f the State was issued for
         the land in question.

         A small number of titles were issued sporadically. Management was informed that
         a small number o f titles (four) were issued for parcels in the affected BKL
         villages through sporadic titling processes that occurred subsequent to the
         systematic titling process. Bank efforts to determine the ownership o f these
         parcels has not been successful to date.

         Private lease signed. Based on copies o f official documents and press reports,
         Management i s aware that MPP signed a lease for the BKL area for 99 years with
         Shukaku in February 2007. According to the 2001 Land Law, State Public Land
         can only be subject to short, temporary occupation and use (Article 16). Sub-
         Decree 129 on Rules and Procedure on Reclassification o State Public
                                                                            f
         Properties and Public Entities (2006) further clarifies that leasing o f State public
         property must not exceed 15 years and must not damage the property or change i t s
         function in providing public utility.

         Formal conversion to State Private Land. In August 2008, Government issued a
         Sub-Decree to convert the area from State Public Land to State Private Land,
         more than a year after the lease had been signed. The 2001 Land L a w provides


41
     Letter Number 01 S.Ch.N. o f the Office o f Council of Ministers, dated January 3, 2006.
42
     Letter Number 109 S.Ch.N. of the Office o f Council of Ministers, dated January 30, 2007.




                                                     20
                                                                         Management Response



         that such reclassifications can only be completed by the issuance o f a L a w if the
         property in question has lost i t s "public interest use" (Article 16).

         Pressure on residents to relocate. Though earlier assurances were made that the
                                .
         developer would ". . settle problems for residents by constructing residential
         buildings in the development area.. ,",43 residents were later reportedly told that
         they would have to relocate (at least temporarily) and that they could accept one
         o f three compensatiodresettlement options provided by the private developer.
         The residents recently reported that local officials informed them o f deadlines for
         relocation after which the offers o f compensatiodresettlement would be
         withdrawn. Further pressure to relocate was brought to bear from August 2008 as
         the developer started to fill BKL, causing structural damage and flooding to
         properties around the lake.

 49.     Based on the above chronology and in the .absence o information to the
                                                                     f
 contrary, in August 2009 Management concluded that proper procedures were not
followed in the adjudication o the Sras Chok commune. The procedures to be followed
                                f
 in systematic adjudication areas are set forth in Sub-Decree 46. These procedures require
 inter alia: (a) a public open meeting at the beginning o f the process to explain the
 procedure, clarify legal matters and answer questions; (b) a demarcation process by
 which the boundaries o f each parcel are demarcated with participation o f owners or
 holders o f that parcel and neighbors; (c) the inclusion of the demarcated parcels in a
 cadastral map; (d) an investigation o f a l l rights associated with each parcel and a
 recordation o f those rights in the adjudication record; (e) a public display period for
 people to view the adjudication; and (f) an opportunity for those objecting to the
 adjudication record to present those objections to the administrative commission and, if
 the objection cannot be settled at that level, to the Cadastral Commissions.

50.     Incomplete information concerning the Sras Chok adjudication process makes i t
difficult to assess in detail i t s compliance with Sub-Decree 46. Based on available
information, however, Management believes that residents in the adjudication area o f
BKL were not given a sufficient opportunity to present claims regarding their possession
o f the land and to have those claims adjudicated in accordance with prescribed
procedures. There i s n o evidence that a transparent, participatory and reviewable process
was used to determine the classification o f the land as State Public Land. It appears that
the MLMUPC did not collect data or claims concerning privately occupied land within
the area. Although there appears to have been a public display o f a cadastral map, only
village boundaries were shown and ownership was recorded as "unknown" - the
designation used when land i s unclear or in dispute. There i s no evidence that residents
were directed to dispute resolution mechanisms that would have allowed them to contest
the conclusions set forth in the adjudication record.

51.    Management concurs that the Borrower is obligated to apply the RPF to
displacements or threatened displacements from the Sras Chok adjudication area. The

43
     Declaration of MPP dated March 13,2007




                                              21
Cambodia


D C A , Schedule 4. 111.1 states, in part, that the Borrower shall ensure that the RPF i s
applied " i n the event of eviction from state land ...under Parts C (b) and (c) o the f
Project. " Part C (b) o f the Project refers to the "carrying out o a systematic land titling
                                                                   f
program in the Project Provinces." The Sras Chok adjudication area was an area in
which the Project was carrying out systematic land titling; hence, the RPF would apply.
Management has been unable to determine definitively whether the area in question was
formally titled in the name o f the State, which i s one o f the instances in which the
application o f the RPF was foreseen. Nevertheless, the actions taken by the MPP in
leasing the land confirm that the Government had de facto made a determination that the
land in question was State land. T o exclude the application o f the RPF to evictions in a
Project adjudication area because the adjudication process was apparently not followed to
i t s conclusion and no formal title was issued in the name o f the State, would be contrary
to the intentions underlying the development o f the RPF, as set out in the D C A .

52.     I t should be noted that the Government takes the position that evictions in BKL
were not the concern o the Project because the land in question had not, in fact, been
                        f
titled by the Project. Management disagrees with this conclusion for the reasons set forth
in the previous paragraph. At the same time, however, i t i s important to acknowledge that
a lack o f specificity in the Project documents and the apparent absence of detailed
discussions o f the reach o f the RPF, either during design or implementation, may have
contributed to Government's understanding o f i t s obligations. Until the mid-2009 events
at BKL, i t appears that there was little explicit consideration given by either the
MLMUPC or the Bank to the possibility that even where the titling process i s incomplete,
actions within an adjudication area could have negative effects that would fall within the
scope o f the RPF.

53.    Management does not agree that the preparation of the cadastral index map
perse made BKL residents more vulnerable to eviction. On the other hand, the fact
that creation o the map was apparently not accompanied by a full adjudication and
               f
dispute resolution process put those who may have held possession rights at a
disadvantage. The Requesters argue that creation o f a cadastral index map for the area
made them vulnerable to eviction because i t removed the protections o f Article 248 o f the
2001 Land Law, which protects possessors by providing that until a "cadastral index
map" i s in place covering an area and "ownership rights" have been "fully strengthened"
under the law, actions that "hinder a peaceful holder or possessor" o f property are
unlawful. Management interprets the protections afforded by Article 248 as remaining in
place until the cadastral index map has been finalized in accordance with the prescribed
process, which involves, among other things, a public display o f the proposed map, the
full adjudication o f rights, the opportunity for comment, access to dispute resolution, and
a final determination as to ownership. In the current case, as noted above, there were
significant shortcomings in the process that was carried out. Particularly, the protections
o f Article 248 should not be seen to have been lifted with regard to parcels for which
ownership i s listed as "unknown" on the Sras Chok cadastral index map. In any event,
Management i s not aware o f any evidence that the Government was depending on the
"lifting" o f Article 248 protections as a basis for i t s decisions or actions with regard to the
BKL area.



                                               22
                                                                           Management Response



54.      The Requesters also contend that implementation of a widespread titling
process weakens the pre-existing "customary" rights of people who have not been
given an opportunity to formalize those rights. BKL residents in particular are said to
regard themselves as the owners o f the land in question and to have documents that
indicate recognition o f ownership under the customary system. Management i s uncertain
how the term "customary rights" i s being used in this context by the Requesters. As set
out above, a key feature o f the 2001 Land L a w provides that possession rights are
recognized as convertible into formal title if certain conditions are met. I f done correctly,
therefore, titling should strengthen the position o f those with possession rights that are
recognizable under the Land Law, even if those rights were not formally recognized
previously. I t i s equally apparent, however, that pre-existing rights could be compromised
by a process with the shortcomings that were evident in the case o f the Sras Chok
adjudication, including the apparent absence o f a transparent, criteria-based and
reviewable decision as to whether the land in question was State Public Land. I t i s also
acknowledged that long term occupiers without valid possession rights under the Land
L a w might be affected by the titling process if that process were to conclude that they
lack legally recognizable rights over land that i s determined to be State land. It i s in light
o f this possibility that the RPF was designed, inter alia, to apply tp people evicted as a
                                                            '
result o f land being "titled in the name o f the State."

55.     The Bank Task Team first visited the BKL area in June 2008 aspart o a multi-
                                                                                  f
donor supervision mission organized by MLMUPC. The focus o f the visit was: (a) to
identify and resolve obstacles to titling in urban areas; and (b) to find ways to expedite
delivery o f titles in areas that were surveyed but where no titles had been delivered. The
visit was short and discussions took place only with the Project staff. At that time, they
informed the mission that the villages surrounding BKL had not received titles because
the area was State Public Land and no mention about conversion o f the land to State
Private Land nor o f possible resettlement o f these communities were made. Although
some o f the mission members had read press reports from January 2007 (18 months
before) on a 99-year lease for that land to Shukaku, a private developer, no one, either
from the Bank or the Development Partners, made the link between possible involuntary
resettlements and the Project at that time.

56.      In November 2008, a Bank consultant (and former Task Team member) working
on a legal review for the Project became aware that some NGOs were preparing a report
on the Project and informed the Bank Task Team. Within a week, the Task Team
contacted one o f the NGOs preparing the report and they met ten days later. The NGOs
initially focused the discussion on how to enhance the design o f a proposed second phase
o f the Project so that i t would better protect the most vulnerable. On January 12,2009 the
NGOs asked the Task Team for information on the adjudication status in the "Boeung
Kak area o f Phnom Penh". , The Task Team provided adjudication status for all Project
provinces (subsequently, the Task Team reviewed the status o f Boeung Kak 1, Boeung
Kak 2, and Sras Chok communes and reported o n this status to the NGOs in August
2009). The Task Team continued a constructive dialogue with the NGOs and, in the light
o f the NGOs' concerns, facilitated on January 20, 2009 a meeting o f the NGOs with the
TWG-L. During this meeting, the NGOs advocated that poor and vulnerable communities



                                              23
Cambodia


- particularly in urban areas - were at disadvantage to obtain land titles and should
receive specific support through the Project.

57.    I n the early morning of January 24, 2009, armed police forcibly evicted
residents from another urban settlement known as Dey Krahorm. In mid-February,
NGOs asked to meet with Bank Management to discuss concerns about the inability o f
poor residents o f the Dey Krahorm communities to access the titling system before their
eviction. During the same month, one NGO wrote to Management about a neighboring
community, "Group 78", that was also threatened with eviction.

58.     Once Management realized that there was an apparent acceleration o         f
evictions, and thus potential harm to Project-affected persons, it reacted promptly.
Following receipt o f the f i r s t NGO letter, Management followed a multi-pronged
approach (see Annex 4 for a detailed timeline):

       Starting in mid-February 2009, the Task Team and Management held several
       audio-conferences with Operations Policy and Country Services, LEGEN, the
       Country Management Unit and the Sector Management Unit. Management
       decided to undertake an independent ERM o f the Project to ensure that there was
       a clear understanding o f the obligations and agreed on a series o f discussions that
       the Task Team Management should hold with Government counterparts, NGOs,
       and Development Partners (see following points).

       The Task Team met with the Project Director in late February and early March to
       inform him o f the concerns. As there was strong concern about the imminent
       eviction o f the Group78 community, Management met on several occasions with
       higher levels in Government and issued several letters to the Government asking
       i t to place a temporary moratorium o n evictions until i t finalizes i t s national legal
       and policy framework for resettlement. The Bank offered i t s assistance in
       reviewing the laws and regulations related to resettlement that Government was
       drafting with a view to ensuring that they met appropriate standards.

       In early March, Management and the Task Team met with community members
       from D e y Krahorm, Group 78 and NGO representatives in Phnom Penh to
       develop a detailed understanding o f their concerns.

       Also starting in early March 2009, Management discussed the issues with the
       Project co-financiers Canada, Germany, and Finland. Subsequently, Management
       has kept all Development Partners and interested NGOs informed o f its actions
       and i t s dialogue.

       The ERM mission took place f r o m March 30 to April 12, 2009. Following the
       mission, the Bank discussed with Government the preliminary findings and a
       temporary moratorium on evictions was suggested in several meetings (see
       Annex 4, April 30, M a y 3 and M a y 27).




                                              24
                                                                        Management Response



       In light o f the early outcomes o f the ERM, Management advocated with the
       Government for a moratorium on evictions and a framework for resettlement. I t
       transmitted the final ERM Report to the Government in mid-July 2009 and once
       again offered i t s assistance in designing a national policy, while again calling for
       a moratorium on involuntary resettlements.

       During the week o f July 14-20, Management met with NGOs on two occasions
       and received detailed briefings o f the situation at BKL and Group 78 (where
       evictions were imminent). On July 14, Management visited the resettlement
       community where many residents o f Dey Krahorm and Group 78 had been
       relocated, and spoke with some residents to obtain a first-hand understanding o f
       the situation. Management also directly observed the clearance o f the Group 78
       settlement.

59.     As the Bank learned about more upcoming evictions, Management took
additional actions. The Bank took the lead in preparing and issuing on July 16, 2009 a
public statement with ten donors, which was subsequently endorsed by more than sixty
Cambodian and International NGOs (see Statement in Annex 5). The Country Director
met with senior Government officials the next day to urge them to improve State land
management practices and to adopt a national resettlement policy, and offered support for
improving conditions at the resettlement sites around Phnom Penh, based on social needs
assessment. Still, the Group78 community was evicted on July 17, 2009. Out of concern
for the BKL community, which was said to be the next to be evicted, the Bank set up a
safeguards mission to explore ways to address the issues arising in that area. During this
mission, which took place August 3-5, 2009, given the sensitivity o f the issues, no
meetings could be scheduled with the Project's PMO or other Government officials. On
August 17, 2009 Management sent a letter to the Government again urging an immediate
moratorium on evictions, outlining possible linkages between the BKL evictions and the
Project as well as the Government's obligations under the DCA. The letter also requested
information confirming or correcting these claims, but the Government did not respond.

60.     I n late August 2009, Regional Management made a committed effort to resolve
the issue at the highest level. The Regional Vice President (RVP) travelled to Phnom
Penh on August 27-28 to meet with senior government officials. H e also met with NGOs
and donors. The RVP discussed the ERM report with officials up to the level o f the
Deputy Prime Ministers (DPM) and in his meetings with senior members o f Government
he reiterated the Bank's position that further evictions should not take place until an
appropriate national resettlement policy was put in place. The RVP also offered to
allocate IDA resources to the proper resettlement of the BKL communities. The RVP
proposed that the Bank and the Government jointly agree to suspend the Project while
work was ongoing on improving the policy framework. Shortly after the visit, on
September 4, the Government decided to cancel the remaining amount (the undisbursed
balance) o f the Credit, and informed the Bank o f i t s decision in writing on September 7,
2009. In a letter acknowledging the Government's cancellation, the RVP pointed out
Government's continued obligations and offered Bank support for the proper resettlement
o f the BKL communities, which had started to resettle in August 2008 once site
development work began.


                                            25
Cambodia


61.     Since July 2009, the Task Team has been gathering available information to
identib other potential cases o communities, which like BKL, were displaced or are
                                f
currently threatened with displacement from adjudication areas without
implementation o the RPF. Despite repeated requests for information f r o m the PMO
                  f
and the Duon Penh District Cadastral Office, the Task Team has not been able to access
up-to-date official maps o f adjudicated areas in Phnom Penh or the other 11 project
provinces in Cambodia. At present, the Task Team i s thus limited to reviewing publicly-
available information (e.g., press articles, NGO reports, and other sources) referring to
land disputes. As o f October 29, 2009, the team has identified eight potential cases
involving ten villages (or parts thereof) and potentially affecting as many as 1,300
families.

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION I S S U E S

62.     The Requesters claim that the Project's effectiveness was hampered by the
incomplete o r non-implementation o f several components. In the following section,
Management presents the context in which the Project was designed and implemented
and assesses supervision efforts. I t concludes that despite significant Task Team
engagement, the Project drifted away from i t s original design, and as a result three
specific components o f the Project were not implemented completely. Insufficient
attention to safeguards supervision contributed to these implementation gaps. Moreover,
Management should have engaged Government more aggressively o n the lagging
component and taken the opportunity to rectify these shortcomings through Project
restructuring.

63.     The Project was identified and designed in a post-conflict state in which the
security o land tenure was one o the key development challenges. As a key part o f
           f                         f
addressing this challenge, the new Land L a w was adopted in August 2001. The Project
was designed to support the first phase o f a long-term Government effort to move
forward with implementation o f the new L a w and with land sector reforms, described in
the PAD as "expected to be implemented over 15 years." Indeed, relevant Bank
experience (e.g., in Thailand) demonstrated that land administration reforms o f this scope
and complexity take at least a generation. The Bank was not alone in this view or in this
effort. M a n y o f the Development Partners take a similar view o f the complexity o f these
land issues. These partners were (and remain) involved in land issues, some o f them long
before the Bank.

64.      The Project was to be a limited and phased-in contribution to a very complex
development problem, although the Project Description in the P A D failed to make this
suitably clear. Despite a highly ambitious design in terms o f Project scope and reach,
funding constraints and an understanding that the Project needed to be phased-in over
time meant that the Project was necessarily limited in size relative to the overall needs.
Since the Project was being implemented in a country where land disputes and insecurity
o f tenure were serious concerns, and given that there was little institutional capacity at
the time, the decision was made to implement the Project sequentially, beginning with
eleven provinces, including the three largest municipalities (Phnom Penh, Siem Reap and
Sihanoukville). The Project was never envisaged, nor did i t have the resources, to address


                                             26
                                                                                 Management Response



all o f the land transactions and conflicts in the Project provinces, and i t i s clear that the
Government would not have agreed to a Project o f such magnitude. Moreover, while
activities in Component 2 "Institutional Development," Component 4 "Strengthening
Mechanisms for Dispute Resolution," and Component 5 "Land Management" had a
provincial reach, others were geographically more limited. In particular, while i t was
estimated that there were close to 13 million parcels nationwide that needed titling and
registration, under Component 3 the Project limited itself to a target o f one m i l l i o n titles
to be issued under the systematic and sporadic titling activities. In retrospect, a clearer
definition in both the DCA and PAD o f the Project areas for the various components and
sub-components would have helped to clarify to all stakeholders that the Project reach
was limited and would have contributed to improving Project design.

65.     The Task Team invested significant time and resources in supervision during
implementation. Annex 6 presents the supervision effort o f the Task Team. The key
features are as follows:

         The first supervision mission was in M a y 2002, following Board approval o f the
         Credit in February 2002, and there were eleven missions in total, all o f them joint
         multi-donor supervisions, duly documented with aides-mkmoire and management
         letters. Seventeen Project Supervision Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status
         Reports (ISR) were prepared.

         The frequency o f formal supervision was an average o f two missions per year,
         except for the period between December 2005 (Eighth Supervision) and M a y
         2007 (Ninth Supervision), which corresponds to the duration o f the suspension o f
         disbursements, during which supervision missions were put on hold.44

         Overall, there was good continuity in leadership with three appropriately
         experienced Task Team Leaders since October 20004'with an effective handover
         process, including an overlap o f two missions during the first transition period
         and one mission during the second.

         The duration o f the missions, which were short at the onset o f the Project, got
         longer over time as implementation issues increased and i t became first a project
         "at r i s k " and, subsequently, a "problem" project. The residence o f the Task Team




44
     A n ISR (Sequence #I was prepared in June 2006, and the Task Team Leader visited Phnom Penh
                             1)
     approximately ten times between December 2005 (Eighth Supervision) and May 2007 (Ninth
     Supervision) for short technical and follow-up missions.
45
     From October 1, 2000 to October 2004, a Land Policy Specialist based in Washington DC; from
     October 2004 to June 2007, a Land Administration Specialist based in Washington D C and assisted by
     operation officers in the Phnom Penh Office; and since June 2007, a Natural Resources Management
     Specialist based in Bangkok and assisted by a full-time Land Specialist and a part-time lawyer, both
     based in Phnom Penh.




                                                   27
Cambodia


          Leader in Bangkok starting from June 2007 also allowed more frequent
          interactions with the Project management team and partners.46

          The Bank supervision budget followed a similar trend, with a peak in 2007 around
          the lifting o f the suspension o f disbursements, and i t was complemented by trust
          fund resources (for example, to finance, since June 2007, an internationally-
          recruited land advisor in Phnom Penh).

          An early and detailed Mid-Term Review (MTR) took place at the time o f the
          Sixth Supervision Mission in September-October 2004 when Project
          implementation was in i t s early stages. At this stage, a review o f social safeguards
          was undertaken and n o adverse social impacts from the Project were identified. I t
          was assumed at that time that all building would be constructed o n State Public
          Land not occupied by people, and safeguards concerns were limited to the issue o f
          ROW. Nevertheless, issues were raised with the Government o n a number of
          points o f concern including the performance o f the Cadastral Commissions, the
          lack o f an NGO legal aid provider, the improvement o f systems for Project
          monitoring and the apparent need to restructure Component 5 (see below).

          Various evaluation studies were also undertaken by the Bank and Development
          Partners for which international experts were brought in to inform Project
          implementation on specific topics. For instance, a Chief o f FAO's Land Tenure
          Service participated in the MTR, and June 2007 and January 2009 supervision
          missions. A former Director o f the University o f Wisconsin Land Tenure Center
          (and former Bank team member), reviewed the implementation o f the State Land
          Management Sub-decree in November 2008.47In addition, there have been at least
          19 studies, which informed the dialogue with Government and Development
          Partners (see Annex 7).

66.     Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR), both Project performance and the
relationship with the Ministry began to deteriorate. During the f i r s t two years o f
implementation, the emphasis o f the Project had been on: (a) creating the regulatory
framework to enable implementation o f land registration activities under the 200 1 Land
Law; (b) building capacity for land registration and land dispute resolution; and (c)
developing policies, procedures and systems. All these actions were necessary conditions
for the successful implementation o f titling activities. At the time o f the MTR in October
2004, the Project had surveyed and adjudicated about 139,000 land parcels but only 700
titles had been distributed. This fell well short o f the PAD target for 2004 o f 192,000
parcels surveyed with a 95 percent issuance rate. This shortfall was noted by M L M U P C
with measures suggested to ease bottlenecks. In June 2005, during a tense Seventh
Supervision Mission, good governance emerged as an important issue, with the Ministry
acknowledging that informal payments were being demanded and paid in the urban high-

46
      The Task Team Leader visited once or twice per month between June 2007 and September 2009 and
      maintained an active dialogue with the Project Director, PMO and other Development Partners.
47
      This was how contact was established with the NGOs who brought the Request for Inspection.




                                                 28
                                                                             Management Response


value areas such as Phnom Penh, Siem Reap and Sihanoukville, and in rural areas.
Concerns were raised regarding the effectiveness o f the Public Awareness and
Community Participation (PACP) activities under Component 3 as well as the
effectiveness o f dispute resolution efforts under Component 4. Project performance
                                          By
ratings were consequently d~wngraded.~' the time o f the Eighth Supervision Mission,
in December 2005, the Project Internal Audit Report had been disclosed, INT was
carrying out i t s investigation, and the Bank was expressing serious concerns about
procurement issues.

67.    The focus of implementation shifted towards fiuciary aspects and key outputs,
notably the issuance o titles. As problems and discord were emerging, the Task Team
                         f
focused i t s effort on solving priority issues directly related to Project implementation,
 especially fiduciary aspects, which ultimately led to the suspension o f disbursements
 from the Credit in June 2006. As tensions around the Project heightened, the Task Team
 sought to maintain a common viewpoint with the counterpart Ministry, whose priority
 was to advance what i t saw as i t s core mandate. This common view meant pursuing as
 priorities certain aspects o f the policy process, capacity building and particularly the
 acceleration o f titling in undisputed areas. These priorities led to increasing deviations
 from the multi-component, holistic design o f the Project. Thus, as identified by the ERM
 report49". ..intertwined components and activities o LMAP have been disconnectedfrom
                                                     f
 each other, with implementation focusing on the most successful parts (training, works,
 and titling and registering non-disputed land, as well as progress in enhancing and
further developing the land policy and legal framework including policies and
 regulations) while not addressing the other activities that would have helped to fully
 achieve the development objective to improve land security. "

68.   Management recognizes shortcomings in supervising the implementation of
                        -
Sub-component 3(a) Information Dissemination and Community Participation; Sub-
                   -
component 4(c) Legal Assistance for the Disadvantaged; and Component 5 Land               -
Management. As identified by the ERM report, which was commissioned b y East Asia
Regional Management and referred to in the Request, the following activities were
delayed or were not implemented b y the time the Credit was closed:

         Despite repeated attempts, no NGOs were contracted to support implementation
         o the Information Dissemination and Community Participation Program (Sub-
          f
         component 3(a)). Since the Project began, PACP activities had been part o f the
         land titling activities supported by the Project. During the first year o f
         implementation, Community Awareness and Participation Teams were
         established as part o f the LRTs and their work was overseen by the PMO's Public




48
     Implementation Progress rating was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory (MS) and individual
     performance of all components but one (Component 1) were downgraded to M S (Components 2,3 and
     4) and Component 5 to Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).
49
     ERM Report: World Bank, July 13,2009 (page 5, paragraph 12).




                                                29
Cambodia


         Relations Officer and the FINNMAP'' Local Advisor on Community Participation
         and Gender. These a ~ t i v i t i e s undertaken b y LRTs as part o f the land titling
                                               ,~~
         process, have been implemented with mixed success. At the same time, i t was
         also recognized that the recruitment o f NGOs was critical to improve the
         effectiveness o f the PACP process and to enhance community participation,
         ultimately contributing to enhancing transparency and good governance in the
         land sector. However, no NGOs were selected despite three procurement attempts.
         52 I t i s Management's understanding that NGOs did not want to engage in a

         contract with the Ministry as they felt that would undermine their independence.
         The Task Team was aware o f this issue through regular supervision, but no
         workable solution was found. With the benefit o f hindsight, i t was a design flaw
         of the Project to expect the Government in this case to contract local c i v i l society
         organizations to do this work. A better design would have been to have NGOs
         contracted by a party other than Government. As a result, this design aspect has
         been incorporated into subsequent Bank projects in Cambodia.53

         After procurement attempts failed, no NGOs were contracted to provide legal
         assistance to the disadvantaged under the dispute resolution mechanism (Sub-
         component 4(c)). During systematic titling, most disputes were resolved by an
         administrative commission at the local level at the time the LRTs were working.
         Disputes that could not be resolved as part of the titling process are to be referred
         to the NCC. Data from MLMUPC suggests a significant backlog in referring
         these cases. Management recognizes that the Legal Assistance Program (LAP) as
         originally included in the Project would have provided increased support to poor
         and vulnerable households involved in land disputes. However, following a pilot
         program54  under the Project implemented during 2003-2004 in Kompong Speu
         Province using the local NGOs, Legal Aid Cambodia and ADHOC, the Ministry
         was not successful in awarding contracts to scale up the LAP or to develop
         alternative mechanisms to provide legal assistance to the poor - probably for the



50
     FM-International Oy FINNMAP i s an independent, privately owned consulting company based in
     Helsinki, Finland.
51
     For example, the distribution o f information material on land registration and land dispute resolution,
     the preparation of training manuals for LRT staff on PACP in rural and urban environments (a third
     version was issued in 2009), and radio and television programs.
52
     See Annex 8a. Three attempts were made to select NGOs: June 2004-February 2005 and October
     2006-January 2007 by the Project; and February 2008-July 2009 by the IPA. There was no progress
     after July 2009.
53
     For example, LASED and Demand for Good Governance.
54
     Pilot work on legal assistance supported by GTZ was started in mid-2003 and completed in January
     2004. A final report was submitted by Legal A i d of Cambodia to NCCS. A "Lessons Learned
     Workshop" was organized on March 12, 2004 with Cadastral Commission representatives from
                 '


     Kompong Cham, Kompong Speu and Phnom Penh, the three priority provinces participating. This
     workshop helped to gather information on land disputes and potential reconciliation tools. A n
     assessment report of the work accomplished was prepared, in Khmer, and submitted to the Minister,
     who approved i t (in April 2004).




                                                     30
                                                                                      Management Response



                                               significant legal aid movement does exist in
          same reason mentioned a b ~ v e . ~ ~ A
          Cambodia, however, and Management understands that major disputes such as
          those in the BKL area, Group 78 and Dey Krahorm, discussed in this Response,
          have attracted legal and advocacy support without positive outcomes thus far. As
          in the above case o f PACP, alternatives to the recruitment o f NGO using the
          resources o f the Credit should have been considered at the implementation stage.

          Component 5 on Land Management was only partially implemented. In relation to
          this component (which was added to the Project at a late stage during Project
          preparation),56 the PAD outlined a program o f work: (a) to agree o n the
          procedures to be followed in defining land classes; (b) to acquire aerial
          photography and remote sensing imagery; and (c) to prepare for each Project
          province land classification maps showing the boundaries o f forests, protected
          areas, and land under private, public and concessionary use. While the
          Government had developed an improved legal framework for land classification,
          i t s implementation progressed much more slowly and much less systematically
          than anticipated in the Project design. No provinces, districts or communes as yet
          have a land classification map showing the boundaries and types o f land under
          public use. Consequently, Component 5 i s the least satisfactory component o f the
          Project. At the MTR, the "restructuring" o f the component was discussed based
          on a proposal from the Government to reorient the component, without any
          explanation being given as to why the outputs o f the original design were no
          longer required. A new structure of the component was not agreed upon because
          o f diverging views among Development Partners and MLMUPC, and therefore
          the Project description in the DCA was not revised. In short, the Project design,
          while flagging the importance o f the issue and i t s riskiness (see paragraphs 33 and
          34), underestimated the complexity and politically fraught nature o f State land
          management. With the benefit o f hindsight, the lack o f a detailed plan for inter-
          ministerial and inter-agency coordination, given the multi-faceted nature o f the
          land management agenda as well as i t s political and technical complexity was a
          flaw in Project design. The Council for Land Policy had a defined role to play in
          coordinating policy development under this component but the Ministry o f
          Interior, Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and MOE also had crucial
          but poorly understood roles to play in identification, mapping, registration and
          management o f State land.

69.     Management recognizes that several opportunities-were missed to restructure
the Project. The need for Project restructuring, initially limited to Component 5, was
identified at the MTR in October 2004 but never formalized either by the Task Team or

55
      See Annex 8b. Two attempts were made to select NGOs, the first from April to November 2005 by
      LMAP, and the second from February 2008 to August 2009 by the IPA.
56
      The lack o f details on Component 5 in the PAD i s noteworthy. B y way o f contrast, Component 4 o f the
      Project "Strengthening Mechanisms for Dispute Resolution" (estimated cost: US$I .7 million) receives
      more than 1% pages o f attention in the Detailed Project Description whereas Component 5 (estimated
      cost: US$2.6 million) i s described in just ten lines.




                                                      31
Cambodia


by Management, who were absorbed by the Fiduciary Review and i t s revelations o f
corruption. This was compounded by the lack o f responsiveness o f Government in
addressing broader implementation issues. By the following mission, the Task Team's
efforts were mainly devoted to complying with the Bank's fiduciary responsibility and in
parallel to continuing to advise the Ministry on multiple technical areas o f the Project. As
the difficulty in achieving some o f the far-reaching objectives o f the Project (such as the
establishment o f a fair and effective conflict resolution mechanism) and the limited
influence o f the primary counterparts at M L M U P C in these respects became evident, the
focus o f the Project shifted and concentrated o n the areas o f maximum government
ownership (particularly the achievement o f the one m i l l i o n titles milestone) and what
incremental reforms could be pursued on a consensual basis through the other
components. In part as a result o f the focus on the incremental titling progress,
Management missed the opportunity to engage the Government more generally on how to
adjust the Project's objectives and design in ways that responded to developments in the
land sector as a whole (as noted in paragraph 67 above) as well as to acknowledge some
problems in design and implementation.

 70.     Such a revised approach became part o f the Action Plan to lift the suspension o f
 disbursements, which included a requirement for M L M U P C to "Prepare an Action Plan
for the review o the design o LMAP o a scope and in a manner satisfactory to the
                    f             f         f
Association.       The Action Plan was prepared and submitted to the Bank on February 2,
 2007, prior to lifting the suspension, and subsequently used by the MLMUPC to develop
 a proposal for a Land Administration Sub-sector Program (LASSP) considered as a
 possible second phase o f the Project. There was again recognition at that time that
 Component 5 was not being implemented as designed but no agreement could be reached
 on a formal restructuring o f the Project. With hindsight, Management should have taken
 the opportunity o f Government's request for extension o f the Project Closing Date in
 December 2007 to restructure when i t was clear: (a) that the Project was not going to
 achieve all i t s intended objectives; and (b) that components and sub-components were
being unevenly implemented. Instead, the Project was extended for an additional two
 years in 2007. Management acknowledges the fault with an overall assessment o f the
 Project as Moderately Satisfactory: the ISR ratings were upgraded at the time o f the
 extension, based o n action plans rather than on concrete results.

71.     The need to restructure Component 5 was again identified during the PAD
Review undertaken by the Bank in November 2008. The results o f this review o f the
Project indicate that "activities described in component 5 sub-component iii -
                                                      f
preparation o land classification maps for each o the Project provinces showing
                f
boundaries o forests, protected areas, land under private use, land under public use,
              f
land under concession - have not been implemented as planned. In the absence o strong
                                                                               f
inter-ministerial coordination mechanisms it has proven diflcult to implement this
activity as initially envisioned. This change has been duly noted in both the Mid-term
review and the LMAP Review mission carried out in June 2007." Following the PAD

57
     See Acting RVP Letter dated July 6, 2006, to the Minister of Economy and Finance on the Actions to
     be completed to l i f t suspension for the Project.




                                                  32
                                                                                   Management Response



Review, i t was agreed that the Project would be formally restructured to reflect more
realistic outputs and outcomes, until it became clear that the Project would not be
extended a second time; Management therefore decided not to complete the restructuring
because o f the short implementation period remaining.

72.     I n retrospect, Management recognizes that supervision of safeguards and other
social measures should have been more robust. Management recognizes that insufficient
attention was paid to reviewing the implementation status o f the ESG in the adjudication
areas, and acknowledges that supervision reporting on safeguards issues, up to the most
recent safeguards mission in mid-2009, could have been improved. Neither safeguards
nor resettlement specialists participated in key Project supervision missionsS8  with the
exception o f the MTR (November 2004). Early missions did raise issues related to the
acquisition o f land for the construction o f new buildings under the Project and for the
establishment o f ROW under the new law. Prior to 2009, however, the crucial issue o f
evictions from State land in titling areas was not examined in depth and the Task Team
did not focus on the potential connection between specific land disputes /evictions and
the titling activities under the Project. I t was after communications from NGO advocates
and then the ERM (commissioned by the Bank in April 2009) that Management
recognized the need to examine these potential linkages and their safeguards
implications. The Safeguards Mission in August 2009 (which followed the evictions in
BKL) carried out a preliminary assessment o f the application o f the E S G under the
Project. That mission's report resulted in the decision by Management to inform the
Government o f i t s intention to suspend disbursements o f the Credit for non-compliance
with the RPF, an action which was followed by the Government's cancellation o f the
Credit on September 7, 2009.

73.     Management similarly recognizes that supervision was also insufficient with
respect to broader social protection measures that were intended to apply more generally
throughout Project provinces. As with safeguards, issues such as access to a fair and
effective conflict resolution mechanism, community participation and public awareness
and information programs did not receive sustained attention during s u p e r v i ~ i o n . ~ ~


58
     Provision was made in the terms of reference for the participation o f a Safeguards Specialist in both
     the 10" Supervision Mission (June 2008) and the 11" Supervision Mission (January 2009). The
     Specialist was unable to join the 10" Mission because of a scheduling conflict. The Specialist joined
     the 11" Mission but had to withdraw almost immediately because o f a serious medical problem.
59
     The activities o f the Cadastral Commissions were regularly monitored during supervision. An early
     analysis o f the functioning o f the commissions was conducted by GTZ in 2004 with consequent
     recommendations incorporated into the MTR. A GTZ pilot aimed at improving the performance o f the
     commissions at the District level was the subject of a joint World BanWGTZ review. Further studies
     on land disputes were supported under the World Bank's Justice for the Poor program in 2006 and
     2008. A theme of these reviews was the difficulty that the system was having in dealing with more
     complex cases, particularly those involving powerful actors, and while a number o f initiatives were
     piloted to improve the performance of the Cadastral Commissions at the margins central issues
     remained unaddressed. A key Government response to the issue o f land disputes was the establishment
     in 2006 o f a high level National Authority for the Resolution of Land Disputes (NARLD) chaired by
     D P M Sok An. The Project supervision missions raised concerns that this executive body was not well




                                                    33
Cambodia


                              V.    MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

74.     Since April 2009, Management has repeatedly raised the issue o evictions with
                                                                          f
                      -
the Government through letters, meetings, and in public statements- and offered to
assist in finding appropriate solutions. The land sector issues are and w i l l remain at the
core o f the high-level country dialogue and o f the engagement with the Development
Partners. I t will be an important consideration in future Bank engagement in Cambodia.

75.    Although the Credit was cancelled by the Government, Management will
continue its efforts to address the issues raised in the Request. This will require close
cooperation from the Government, which indicated at the time o f the cancellation o f the
undisbursed balance o f the Credit that i t i s interested in continuing to implement land
reforms and that i t welcomes the Bank's contributions, as long as the Government retains
"ownership and leadership o f the decision making process."

76.       I n particular, Management will continue to pursue actions on two fronts:

           I t will work with the Government and Development Partners towards ensuring
           that the communities who are resettled from the BKL area w i l l be supported in a
           way consistent with the agreed Resettlement Policy Framework ; and,

          I t w i l l continue to engage the Government and Development Partners to ensure
          that communities that need to be resettled in the future would benefit from a
          resettlement policy that meets appropriate standards and f r o m fair and
          independent dispute resolution mechanisms.

M o v i n g forward on these fronts w i l l require addressing difficult governance issues o n
which progress to date has been slow.

77.     Management will undertake these actions under challenging circumstances as
relations between the Bank and the Government have been strained by the latest
developments. The Government has repeatedly stated that i t does not agree with key
conclusions o f the World Bank ERM Report and specifically i s unlikely to agree that it
                                                                              '
has continuing obligations, per the Credit Agreement, in the case o f B U S 6Further, the


       rooted in the legal framework provided by the 2001 Land Law. The NARLD was also the subject o f a
       World Bank funded study which found that i t had been largely ineffective in securing land rights for
       the poor.
6o
       MLMUPC provided a preliminary response to the ERM Report dated August 20, 2009. This response
       indicated that the Ministry would "consider the ERM report recommendation (...) and adapt them to
       suit the Cambodian context." However, the response also took issue with a number o f points in the
       ERM Report, noting: (a) "that during project design the decision to exclude disputed areas from
       registration was made with mutual understanding among development partners including the World
       Bank"; (b) "that LMAP has followed this decision in implementation"; (c) that LMAP was not meant
       to be an instrument to deal with informal settlements; (d) that good faith attempts were made to
       procure PACP and legal aid services from NGOs; (e) that the eviction cases in Phnom Penh "have
       happened outside the adjudication areas and the scope o LMAP";and (f) that these "have not resulted
                                                              f
      from" and "have nothing to do with LMAP."




                                                     34
                                                                                 Management Response



Government has not responded yet to Management's letter in which the RVP
acknowledged the Government's decision to cancel the remaining balance o f the Credit
but also reminded the Government o f i t s legal obligations under the Credit6' and offered
assistance in undertaking an assessment o f the resettlement sites around Phnom Penh. As
Management continues to call for a moratorium on evictions and pursues these actions,
there i s a risk that evictions w i l l continue due to the large number o f land disputes, the
highly decentralized and localized nature o f some, o f the evictions and the challenging
governance environment. Maintaining an on-going dialogue with and gaining cooperation
from the Government w i l l be critical in addressing the issues raised by the evictions.

78.    I n its efforts to address issues raised by the evictions, Management will work
with the other Development Partners involved in the land sector in Cambodia.
Management has kept Development Partners informed o f concerns and o f recent
developments in the dialogue with the Government. M a n y Partners share those concerns,
as demonstrated by the joint July 16, 2009 public statement. Still, they do not all fully
endorse the analysis or conclusions o f the ERM Report, in particular o n the applicability
o f the RPF. They are intent on maintaining an active dialogue with the Government on
land, are continuing to develop and finance activities in this sector, and are looking to the
Bank to play an active role. The Bank w i l l continue to work with and through
Development Partners to increase the probability o f a satisfactory outcome.

SUPPORTING THECOMMUNITIES THATHAVE
                                 BEENAFFECTED

79.                                                            f
       While the Project delivered benefits to a large number o families in Cambodia,
            f
the people o B K L did not benefit from the protection envisaged under the Project's
design. The process that was started under LMAP with the adjudication o f the area was
not completed according to the agreed procedures. Residents were not adequately
involved in the titling process and they did not have access to a fair and independent
dispute resolution mechanism regarding their claims. They were pressured by the MPP to
relocate without an adequate consultation and negotiation process. Since the procedures
set forth in the RPF were not implemented, i t i s not possible to reach a definite
conclusion o n the fairness and adequacy o f the packages offered. However, i t appears
that the proposed packages were not equivalent to what the residents would have received
had the RPF been applied.

80.        Management is committed to undertaking an assessment o the social impacts
                                                                       f
on the affected communities in B K L and will work with the Government and
Development Partners towards ensuring that the communities will be supported in the
way they would have been under the RPF. Management has already made initial steps in
this direction for the BKL area b y undertaking the August 2009 Safeguards Mission. In
i t s letter o f September 18, Management also offered support to the Government if i t were



61    <<
           ...                                                                  f
          the obligations related to activities undertaken during the life o the Project, and their
      consequences, continue to apply until the credit is repaid." [Letter from the RVP to the Borrower,
      September 18,20091.




                                                   35
Cambodia


to undertake such an assessment.621nthe absence o f a response from the Government,
Management w i l l ask the Government to allow the Bank to undertake the assessment o f
the households resettled from the BKL area o n i t s own or with the Development Partners.
Management w i l l share the outcomes o f the assessment with the Government and the
Development Partners involved in the land sector. I t w i l l aim to develop, together with
the Government and the Partners, a plan that would ensure that negative impacts,
particularly on poor and vulnerable affected groups, are mitigated and that social and
economic opportunities are developed.

8 1.     Since July 2009,63  Management has repeatedly encouraged the Government to
improve resettlement sites around Phnom Penh and has offered to support specific
activities that would enhance the living conditions and livelihood opportunities o thef
people recently resettled from B K L and o those who may still be resettled from the
                                              f
area. However, by cancelling the remaining balance o f the Credit in early September, the
Government constrained the range o f actions that would have been possible under the
Project using the IDA Credit itself. Nonetheless, Management will continue to pursue
actions so that people can benefit from a set o f protection measures in line with what they
would have received under the RPF. Management w i l l pursue with the Government the
possibility o f using other IDA credits for this purpose, and with donors the possibility o f
raising trust funds or government funds for this purpose.

82.     As noted above (see paragraph 61), Management has already started identifying
other potential cases o f communities that were resettled or evicted or are threatened with
resettlement or eviction from adjudication areas without proper compliance with
administrative procedures or implementation o f the RPF. Management's intention i s for
that review to be completed during the month o f November; however, i t s rapid
conclusion requires up-to-date information from MLMUPC on areas adjudicated under
the Project, which has not been forthcoming. In any areas where the RPF should have
been applied, the Bank w i l l adopt the same approach as outlined above for BKL.

83.    Management will also encourage the Government to act on environmental
concerns in the B K L area. It w i l l offer to assist the Government in the designing and
commissioning o f additional investigations or studies that are critical to evaluate various
options to mitigate adverse environmental impacts from the filling o f the lake.




      "As the Enhanced Review [Mission] report advises, it is critical to assess the conditions o the f
      resettlement sites in and around Phnom Penh to determine social impacts on relocated residents. The
      Bank is prepared to provide support for this assessment, and to help the Government develop plans for
      these sites to meet standards set forth in the Bank's resettlement policy. I n order to address these
      issues, I would propose that a multidisciplinary team meet with RGC [Royal Government o f
      Cambodia] oflcials in Phnom Penh to explain the Bank's views on the Environmental and Social
      Guidelines and to explore ways in which the Bank can support the RGC's efforts to develop an action
      plan for the residents who have already been evicted." [Letter from the RVP to the Borrower,
      September 18,20091.
63
      At which time Management shared the ERM Report with the Government.



                                                    36
                                                                           Management Response



SUPPORTING IMPROVEMENTS IN RESETTLEMENT POLICY AND                           LANDDISPUTE
RESOLUTION FOR THE BENEFIT OF ALL COMMUNITIES AT RISK

 84.   Management will attempt to work with the Government to improve the
functioning o existing dispute settlement mechanisms and to enhance the capacity o
             f                                                                    f
 communities and NGOs to call on it. The Bank-financed Demand for Good Governance
P r o j e ~ t ~supporting active dissemination o f the 2001 Land L a w among c i v i l society
               ~is
groups and Cambodian households and aiming to foster i t s understanding, including the
possibilities for dispute resolution under the Law. Options also exist to support c i v i l
society initiatives in relation to land dispute resolution under the non-state actor grant
making component o f the same project. Management acknowledges, however, that while
these activities are important, they are unlikely by themselves to have a decisive effect on
the problem.

85.      Management will seek to work with the Government to finalize the national
legal and policy framework for resettlement so that a fairer and more systematic
approach for addressing and mitigating adverse impacts on people from land titling
activities can be developed. The purpose o f this legal framework i s to ensure that all
communities at risk o f being resettled are able to rely on a fair and transparent set o f rules
and procedures to determine their compensation and ensure i t s timely delivery. On this
front, Government has prepared a draft L a w o n Expropriations. The Government also
envisages a sub-decree on resettlement based on a draft prepared with technical
assistance from ADB in 2008. Finally, the Government i s discussing guidelines on
dealing with urban `squatter' settlements. In relation to all o f the above, the Bank has
indicated that i t supports public consultation and i s willing to provide advice on good
practices.

86.    A number of people have been resettled without appropriate process from sites
determined to be State Public Land in Phnom Penh and other cities in Project
provinces, and where the Project was not engaged in titling activities. The Bank w i l l try
to engage the Government in a dialogue on the need to assess these resettlement sites and
to improve their conditions. This would be important from a social and development
perspective.

87.    Management will pursue this dialogue in a multilateral environment. The
TWG-L, in which the Bank i s an active participant, intends to develop more detailed
proposals to enhance the resettlement framework, the dispute resolution mechanisms and
other elements key to the land sector. I t has now been agreed among Development
Partners that the Ambassador o f Germany, who co-leads with Canada the TWG-L from
the development side will champion priority proposals in the High Level Policy
Dialogue. This w i l l enable the Ambassador to bring issues to the attention o f relevant
Ministers - beyond the Ministry o f Land - on an as needed basis.


~~




64
     Report No. IDA/42366/KH, approved by the Board on December 2,2008.




                                                37
    Cambodia


    88.    I n addition to this dialogue, Management will use other projects      in          -
    implementation or in preparation         -
                                          to support land tenure and livelihoods for
    vulnerable communities. The current LASED 65 project and associated Japan Social
    Development Fund (JSDF) grants are piloting the provision o f Social Land Concessions
    (SLCs) to poor households in different contexts and w i l l continue to focus on ensuring
    that project features designed to ensure transparency and effective citizen participation
    are successfully implemented. Additional JSDF grants flagged in the CAS Extension
    (2008-201 1) addressing tenure issues in vulnerable communities - rural and urban- w i l l
    be pursued as a matter o f priority and developed in cooperation with relevant NGOs and
    government agencies.

    89.       Finally, Management is due to redefine its CAS in 2010. Starting in December
    2009, Management will initiate a consultative process to (re)define the role o f the Bank
    in Cambodia and to identify areas o f cooperation and modalities o f support. The CAS
    w i l l draw o n the lessons from the past few years. I t will reflect the level o f cooperation
    between the Bank and the Government and will look critically at what can be achieved
    realistically in the current environment.

    LEARNING LESSONS
           THE

90.     This Project has demonstrated the complexities inherent to land sector operations,
the difficulties o f implementation and supervision in an environment with significant
governance challenges, and some o f the special development challenges that can arise in
post-conflict environment.

    91.    Some early lessons are already emerging from the work undertaken since March
    2009 to review the scope o f the Project as well as i t s implementation challenges, such as:

               Improving design and implementation through clearer definitions and shared
               understanding between the Bank and Government o f (a) the project areas for
               the various components and sub-components; (b) the applicability o f
               resettlement frameworks; and (c) the selection criteria for adjudication areas;

               Ensuring that, during implementation of complex projects that aim at
               addressing fundamental development issues in a comprehensive way, progress
               on key project outputs (e.g., issuance o f titles) i s synchronized with progress
               on the more difficult but critical institutional and policy activities (e.g., land
               dispute resolution mechanism). This requires a simpler and more robust
               results monitoring framework, an area in which the Bank has made progress
               in recent years. I t also requires teams to re-appraise long-term projects
               occurring in fluid environment so that project implementation takes into
               account changing country conditions and lessons drawn from early years feed
               into any project adjustments;

~




65
       Report No. IDA/42931/KH, approved by the Board on May 20,2008.




                                                  38
                                                                        Management Response



           Strengthening monitoring o f key risks potentially affecting project
           implementation, in particular not letting attention to fiduciary concerns detract
           from attention to safeguards issues and other risks.

           Developing more refined information management systems that would enable
           Task Teams and Management to monitor progress in "real" time and enhance
           their ability to assess risks; and

           Experimenting with a range o f mechanisms to contract or partner with c i v i l
           society organizations as part o f a project (as opposed to just through
           Government).

92.     Other lessons, such as the need for enhanced supervision o f "high-risk" projects
that face fiduciary, safeguards andor reputational issues, are already being addressed by
the Bank as part o f other initiatives (e.g., new operational risk framework as part o f the
Investment Lending reform).

93.     Management w i l l set in place a process to learn further and disseminate the
lessons, through workshops within the East Asia Region and among land specialists
across the Bank.


                         VI. MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE

94.     According to the Panel, the Requesters' claims may constitute non-compliance by
the W o r l d Bank with i t s operational policies and procedures in regards to involuntary
resettlement and project supervision.

95.     In this response, Management has presented facts demonstrating that once i t
realized the potential issues around the resettlement o f the BKL communities, i t acted
quickly. Through the process o f exploring this resettlement issue over the past seven
months, Management also realized that there were specific shortcomings in past Project
implementation and supervision, related to: (a) the implementation o f one component
(Le., land management) and two sub-components (i.e., information dissemination and
community participation, and legal assistance for the disadvantaged); and (b) safeguards.

96.     The Government has now cancelled the undisbursed amount o f the Credit and has
thus limited the range o f corrective measures that can be taken within the domain o f the
Project. Still, Management believes that i t has embarked on a path o f actions that i t i s
worth pursuing for the benefit o f the affected communities.

97.    The actions that would have the greatest impact for the communities - the ones
already affected as well as the ones at risk o f being affected - require a committed
engagement from the Government and can only be developed through dialogue and
implemented with the full support o f Government and other Development Partners.
During Management's discussions with the Government, i t has indicated an interest to
continue working with the Bank and other Development Partners to improve
management of land disputes. Given the importance o f this issue, Management w i l l


                                            39
Cambodia


continue to have, as the main focus of i t s overall dialogue with the Government, the need
to develop jointly concrete actions for communities that were evicted and the ones that
face involuntary resettlement.




                                            40
                                                                                                   Management Response



                                              ANNEX 1: CLAIMS AND RESPONSES
   This is a summary of responses to the specific claims made by the Requesters. The claims are
   presented verbatim as they are expressed in the Request and redacted by the Panel. In its
   detailed responses, Management has included many references to the main text of the report. In
   particular, readers are encouraged to read the sections on Project context (paragraphs 9-25)
   which provide a more detailed understanding of the 2001 Land Law and the Project description
   (paragraphs 26-36). A comprehensive description of Management Actions is provided in
   paragraphs 74-93.



INVO                    ESETTLEMENT (OPIBP 4,121




   66   Sub-decree on the Procedure3 to Establish Cadastral Index M a p and Land Register, 2002.
   67   Email correspondence with Tdsk Team k a d e r , September 3,2009.




                                                                      41
Cambodia




July 2008 informed the **** that    and
                                      I***


surrounding area had "been studied and
demarcated" and the boundaries of the
development area set at **'* hectares.68This
includes the approximately **** hectares of +***
plus the surrounding area.




                                                             Management actions:
                                                                                      nagement has repeatedly
                                                                                        ent through meetings
                                                              with senior officials, letters, and a public




                                                               resolving land disputes could be put in place
                                                               and a comprehensive legal and policy

'' Press reports and official documents, some of which the Task Team received from NGOs during supervision of the
project.
::Letter No **** Phnom Penh Department of Land Management, "Boundary demarcation of *)***"
   Notification No *"*, District Governor of **** District, August 2009




                                                       42
     Management Response




43
Cambodia




           44
                                                                                   Management Response




     the customary land rights of '*** residents, the
     protections that the DCA required have not been
     implemented by the Government.
6.   Public Awareness and Community
     Participation.
         "-                                             -
     Furthermore, LMAP failed to implement several          Response. Management recognizes that despite
     important sub-components of the Project, which         repeated attempts, no NGOs were con~racted  to
     were designed to prevent harm resulting from the       support implementation of the Public Awareness
     Project. The Public Awareness and Community            and Community Participation.
     Participation (PACP) sub-component aimed to
     inform and involve the Cambodian public in the         Background information:
     registration and adjudication process. It was          * No NGOs were contracted, despite three
     envisioned that NGOs would deliver PACP and             procurement attempts (see Annex 8A). While
     allow LMAP staff to focus on the technical aspect       the proposed i~vo~vementNGOS in Project
                                                                                        Of
     of the titling process. However, in the seven           implementation was innovative at the time the
     years that the Project has run, no NGOs were            Project was designed, the mechanism to
     ever contracted to conduct PACP, and it is clear        implement it (is% contracting by the PMO) was
     that there is still a dire lack of knowledge            not adapted to the country circumstances.
     amongst most Cambodians regarding their land            LRTs established under the Project and
     rights, the registration system and dispute             functioning under the direct supervision of the
     resolution mechanisms,                                  PMO, assumed responsibility for carrying out
                                                             PACP in Project areas. This was done through
                                                             Administrative Commissions consisting of local
                                                             government and local community
                                                             representatives (see paragraph 68).
                                                             Extensive publicity campaigns were carried out




                                                              actor grant making component of the same
                                                              project. Management acknowledges, however,



                                                   45
Cambodia




                                                          that neither of these activities is likely to have a




 In recognition of the importance of this aspect of     Response. Management recognizes that while it
 the Project, the PAD also states in the                tried to maintain a dialogue with the Government
 Susrainabj/jfyand Risks section that a critical risk   and Development Partners, it turned its attention
 is that the "Government ks commitment to               towards the area that was of greatest immediate
 ensuring dispute resolut mechanisms function           Concern to the Bank &e., fiduciary issues} and
 efficiently and fairly." The corresponding Risk        tOwards the area that had the greatest
                    re was io "maintain an active       government ownership (Le,, land titling), In doing
                   vernment and development             so, it missed opportunitiesto restructure the
                    n abreast of changes in             Project.
 commitment." The Project would be "scaled back
 if commitment to a fair process of dispute             Background information:
 resolution is inadequate."'' This risk was rated as      See discussion on risks identified in the Project
 "substantial." To date, 7 years from the start of        at the onset (paragraphs 33-34). See
 the Project, no legal aid has ever been provided         ParagraPhs 69-71 for the d ~ m ~ s s i o n the
                                                                                                 on

'I   LMAP PAD, page 38.
''LMAP PAD, page 24.


                                                  46
                                                      Management Response




     th        P.


                                         No action.




PROJECT SUPERVISION (OP1BP 13.05)

9.




                                                         roject was extended
                                                         31,2007, fur a range




                                                                            r




                                                        learning the lessons




                                    47
Cambodia




                                                                               fluid environments so that project
                                                                               implementation takes into account changing
                                                                               country conditions and lessons drawn from




              -.
              .
              +



 The **** case was first raised by REP and **** in                        Response. AS acknowledged by the Requesters,
 a meeting with the World Bank Country Director                           Bank M clement has taken sw3ral steps to
 in February 2009. This meeting led ta an                                           concerns raised in February 2009,
 Enhanced Supervision Missian, led by World
 Bank Lead Counsel from Washington D,C, in                                Background
 April 2009, during which the **** case was raised                        * For a full account Of the interactions between
73   Note that the supervision mission occurred in June 2008, not July 2008.




                                                                   48
                                                                                 Management Response




again, along with ather cases a                             NGOs and the Bank on the BKL area and the
concerns with LMAP. The Enh                wision           actions taken by Management, see paragraphs
Mission led to a Safeguards Review Mission,                 55-60.
initiated on 3 August 2009, during which the
Complainants discuss                          nk        Management actions:
safeguards to the ****                                  *     See actions under item 2.
requested the urgent i




****. This letter again requested that the World
Bank intervene urgently in the **** case due to
the eviction notice issued to two villages a day
earlier, The World Bank met with community


                         and Pacific James
                        ia, REP was informed that
                         with senior government




                                                   49
Cambodia




                items 1 , 2 and 5,




           50
~




         a
    .-
     S




             ..
             v)
                  VI
                  3
             c
             S    0




             U
             S
             a




             U
             S
             -
             m
             t;
             c




             %
             a,
             Y
             c
             0
      E
      E
      a
      2
      Q
      S
      .-
      c
       0
      s
      Y
      .-
       v)
      0
      2
      U
      -
      f
      mi
      E
      a,
      U
c
      E
      -
S
a,
      m
E
a     0
2
      Y
      S
      a,
E     Ea
c
0
 a,
      -
      0
      a,
.-    >
e
-
0-
e.
      6
      h


      2.
      1




t
0
v)
v,
E
6
V
-
E
c
2
U
2
-
m
S
P
Y
m
t
a,
5
w
G
S
a,
s
ts,
S
p!
-
55
m
4
                      Management Response




     ANNEX3:
       REVIEWREPORT
ENHANCED




        55
                                                                                   Annex 3




           Cambodia Land Management and
              Administration Project
                  Enhanced Review Report

                                      July 13, 2009




This report presents the findings and recommendations of the Enhanced Review of the Land
Management and Administration Project. The report was sent to the Royal Government of Cambodia on
July 15, 2009.
                                               Main Messages

(i)      The Land Management and Administration Project (LMAP) is a comprehensive land
administration and management project including investments to develop land-related policy, legal and
regulatory instruments, capacity building, land conflict resolution mechanisms and land titling and
registration. LMAP activities are to be implemented in eleven "Project Provinces"'. The Development
Objective of the project is to assist the Royal Government of Cambodia t o implement its Land Policy
Program as spelled out in May 2001, and more specifically t o improve land tenure security and promote
the development of eficient land markets.

(ii)    LMAP has delivered undisputed benefits, including the registering and titling of nearly one
million parcels of land. Other successes include institutional strengthening, enhancing the land policy
and legal framework, and strengthening cadastral commissions.

(iii)     There is, however, a disconnect between institutional, legal and policy achievements and
insecurity of land tenure for the poor, especially in urban areas, and for indigenous people. This
disconnect can be attributed in part to the design of some of the project's components, in part to the
way the project was implemented, as well as delays or non implementation of some activities, and in
part to rapid evolutions in the land market some of which are beyond the direct control of the Ministry of
Land which is in charge of the implementation of the LMAP. As a result, LMAP's noteworthy successes in
land titling in rural areas have not been matched in urban areas of project provinces where land disputes
are known to be more common.

(iv)     During design, there was a decision in line with Cambodian Law that "the project will not title
lands in areas where disputes are likely until agreements are reached on the status of the Land"
Clarifying the status of the Land would have required the development and implementation of clear
procedures for State land classification, which was planned under Component 5 but was only partially
implemented resulting in the absence of oficial state mapping. As a result some land areas have been
excluded from titling without clear criteria or explanation provided to the local communities'. This
creates a disconnect with LMAP's objective of improving land security and should therefore be reviewed
and corrected.

 (v)     Recent episodes of evictions highlight the need for the Government to accelerate the adoption
of those elements of the land sector reform that protect the land rights of all land users, possessors and
owners. Because of weaknesses highlighted above in both project's design and implementation, as well
as the non implementation of the anticipated informal settlements program to be implemented in
parallel to LMAP, LMAP has not proved to be an effective instrument so far in helping the Government to
deal with informal settlements. Given the objective of LMAP of improving land security it would be
important that the Bank and the Government agree on ways to address this shortcoming going forward.




  Three additional project provinces have been added under a CIDA Grant. The total number of provinces covered
currently i s fourteen.
'Because eviction occurred in disputed land areas which are excluded from the scope o f the LMAP, the resettlement
and safeguards policy framework has not been tested
(vi)     Going forward, the Bank will need to agree with Government and support their efforts to take
remedial actions, in consultation with stakeholders, including affected peoples, in order to address
deficiencies in LMAP design and implementation. In addition, the Bank and the other LMAP donors
should engage the Government in a broader land sector policy dialogue to encourage them to apply the
LMAP Environment and Social Guidelines t o align the procedures used in LMAPfinanced activities with
provincial/municipal        land-related        titling      and         registration       activities.
                                                                                                   Page 1 of 11


                              Report of the LMAP Enhanced Review Mission


                               I.        Enhanced Review Mission Background

1 .     The ERM was comprised of Mohammed A. Bekhechi (Lead Counsel, World Bank) and Lars Lund
(Social Safeguard Consultant). The ERM met with stakeholders3 and conducted their review between
March 30 and April 12, 2009 with the following two objectives:
     i.     To assess the extent to which the LMAP is being implemented in compliance with the
            project's Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Cambodian Land Law; and
    ii.     in connection to the recent eviction cases, t o provide World Bank management with a
            thorough assessment of the situation on the ground, including the potential linkages
            between LMAP and the evictions.

2.      More specifically, the ERM was asked t o provide management with answers t o the following
questions:
     i.    Is there any disconnect between the LMAP as designed and implemented particularly with
           regard to the delayed/non-implementation of any specific activities and/or components of
           the project?
    ii.    Was the design decision t o exclude areas of contested tenure appropriate in light of
           increasing land prices, a quickening pace of resettlement, and adoption of forced evictions
           by Government?
   ...
   111.    Are resettlements in communities associated with LMAP being handled in a manner
           consistent with the resettlement policy framework prepared for the project and the World
           Bank established safeguard policies as applicable to the project?
   iv.     Has the World Bank failed t o detect the alleged abuses in implementation of the land law,
           and raise them with the government?

3.    The remainder of this report provides the ERM's response to those questions, along with
recommendations to Bank management.

                        II.         The land Management and Administration Project

A. Background




3
  These include: LMAP staff within the Ministry in charge of land; Cadastral Commission Staff in Phnom Penh;
Municipality of Phnom Penh officials; Ministry of Finance staff involved in the management of resettlement; Civil
Society's Organizations and community leaders including those threatened by imminent evictions, such as Group
of 78; donors' representatives including ADB, GTZ, SIDA, CIDA, USAID, FINMAP; international NGOs and
institutions represented in Cambodia and involved in human rights issues ,and persons and groups evicted from
their lands, notably from the Dey Krahorm and "resettled" outside Phnom Penh
                                                                                                       Page 2 of 11


4.      The LMAP (Credit 3605 KH) was approved on March 27, 2002, with a closing date December 31,
2007. It was extended in December 2007 and a new closing date set for December 31, 2009. It was
also suspended from June 2006 to February 2007 due to procurement issues which are not discussed in
this report.

5.       LMAP's objectives as defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and DCA are t o assist the
Royal Government of Cambodia to implement its "program of actions, objectives and policies designed
t o improve land tenure security and promote the development of efficient land markets4"
(Government's Program). This government program includes: (i) "the development of adequate
national policies, a regulatory framework and institutions for land administration, (ii) the issuanc'e and
registration of titles in rural and urban areas in the Project Provinces, and (iii)the establishment of an
efficient and transparent land administration systemsS. LMAP was designed t o be implemented in 1        1
"Project Provinces"6 defined in the DCA as "any province or municipality in the territory of the Borrower
where the Project will be implemented"'.

6.         To achieve these objectives, LMAP finances five inter-related components.
               Component 1 Development of land policies and regulatory framework
                            :
               Component 2: Instituti0 na I development,
               Component 3: Land titling program and development and land registration system,
               Component 4: Strengthening of mechanisms for dispute resolution, and
               Component 5: Land management.
7.      Environmental and Social Guidelines (ESG) were prepared for the project and adopted
consistent with the Bank`s OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OD 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement)
and OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples). The ESG document states that:

      a.      "Under the land management component [Component (5)], the Project will support the
              classification of land and the delimitation of boundaries of land of different classifications.
              As making these decisions will not be always smooth, it is expected that the process will
              involve full participation of all stakeholders, includina relevant aovernment aaencies,
              central, provincial and local aovernment bodies. and families settled in the area" ... .... Also
              the Project was designed to support the development of other policies, including [....,]those
              suppom'ng reaisterina community and indiaenous peoples' land riuhts, and allocatina and
              developina land for the landless p o o f S[emphasis added]

      b.      "While no eviction, involuntary resettlement or land acquisition is anticipated under the
              project, this [Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)] has been designed to protect people
              who may be negatively impacted from three possible sources. These are: (i)eviction from


  See DCA, Whereas Section (A)
5
  Schedule 2 to the DCA
6
  Schedule 6 to the DCA
7
  It must be noted that three additional provinces were added to LMAP in 2007 under a ClDA financing. No
amendment to the DCA was made to reflect the change.
  While the LMAP did not anticipate t o undertake individual titling in areas inhabited by indigenous peoples, an
indigenous Minority Policy Framework was prepared.
                                                                                             Page 3 of 11


            state land of individuals who occupied it prior to August 30, 2001....following titling of such
            land in the name of the state; (ii) eviction from state land titled in the name of the state of
            individuals who occupied it prior t o August 30, 2001, because of the need to use such land
            for public works under the Project, and (iii) extension by the state of Right of Way (ROW)
            claims which adversely affects possession rights".
B.   LMAP Implementation and Achievements

8.      Although land management and cadastral projects often show results only after long and
sustained effort, LMAP has produced indisputable benefits in a short period. As of April 2009, LMAP has
implemented many of its activities and achieved important objectives including:

            Institutional strengthening under its components (1) and (2), which has provided the
            Secretariat of the Council of Land Policy, the MLMUPC and its Project Unit, cadastral
            commissions a t national and provincial levels, and the University of Agronomy with well-
            trained and competent staff, modern technology, equipment and office space;

            Enhancement and further development of the land policy and legal framework including
            policies and regulations (Sub-decrees and orders) covering a wide range of issues from the
            establishment of a land plan and land registry t o sporadic land registration, social land
            concessions, economic land concessions to state land management and in May 2009
            indigenous peoples' landg;
            Strengthening the cadastral commissions in charge of resolving land disputes; and

            Land titling and registration, and establishment of a central database with a computerized
            land registration system. Titling and registration in undisputed rural areas, outside
            indigenous people's lands, is a real success with nearly one million titles issued, which
            exceeds appraisal estimates.

9.       These achievements were recognized and praised by all stakeholders during the ERM including
government agencies, donors, civil society's organizations (CSOs) and community leaders. These
stakeholders have all expressed their willingness and wish t o support follow up investments t o continue
the work done so far under LMAP. However, CSOs and community leaders expressed concerns about
some disconnect between the. institutional, legal and policy achievements of the LMAP and the
continuous and growing insecurity of land tenure for the poor in urban areas, especially in Phnom Penh
and in some rural areas where indigenous peoples' are established and enjoy traditional land use rights.
These are issues which LMAP has identified during its preparation and design phase but has yet t o tackle
effectively.


                         Ill.    Conclusions of the Enhanced Review Mission



  The Sub decree on Indigenous Peoples community's Land tilting and registration was adopted by the
Government, although the adopted version did not include all recommendations and feedbacks received from
stakeholders during its preparation phase.
                                                                                                    Page 4 of 11


Question 1: Is there any disconnect between the LMAP as designed and implemented particularly with
regard to the delayed/non-implementation of any specific activities and/or components of the
project?
10.       The PAD (Page 12) states that: ".....The proposed project takes a comprehensive approach in,
supporting policy and regulatory reforms, consensus building and institutional development along with
land titling. I t carefullv sequences activities so that svstematic titling does not take place on lands with
unclear status until after the status is aareed with all stakeholders and boundaries between private and
state domains demarcated. "[ ...IDuring the process of classifvina land and demarcatina boundaries, all
                                    "

stakeholders will participate in a process of public consultation to ensure aeneral aareement with
decisions. During systematic adjudication, NGOs with specialized training in participation will work
closely with villagers, explaining the process, producing village land files, and ensuring that all members
of the community who are eligible for a land title will benefit from the Project." The PAD also mentions
that "the project will also support the development of procedures and undertaking the preparation of
land classification maps in project provinces which define the boundaries between various categories of
land use, such as urban, agriculture forest, and protected areas. The preparation of these maps will be
done through a participatory process among local government officials, NGOs, and various national
government agencies to ensure proper protection of the environment and natural habitats." [emphasis
added]

1.
 1      These statements imply that the project components would be implemented in a coordinated
manner. However, in practice, the components have been implemented each at their own pace. In
particular the following activities have been delayed or have not been implemented":

        a.   Under Component (3), information and dissemination campaigns'' through NGOs t o assist
             communities and land rights holders t o prepare for titling and registration of their rights was
             not implemented because of the reluctance of NGOs to be contracted by the Government
             and later procurement delays.

        b. Under Component (4), the systematic public information campaign a t the local level on the
           Dispute Resolution Mechanisms (DRM) has not been yet contracted t o a national NGO;
           similarly the specialized NGO expected to provide legal assistance t o "disadvantaged
           individuals and communities involved in land disputes'' has not been yet contracted12.



10
  The various activities that follow in this list were initiated but not fully and effectively implemented, not
implemented at all or not implemented and proposed to be dropped.
11
    The ERM has learned that dissemination activities, through Ministry of Land's teams, have been implemented
under the LMAP. However, these efforts were not meant and did not fulfill the same objectives as those originally
envisioned to be implemented by NGOs. The reasons for lack of implementation of these activities were fully
understood by the ERM, however, the link between this lack of implementation and the consequence on
communities seeking land titling and security of tenure is noteworthy.
12
   It should be mentioned that as per the last supervision mission, more than 1976 land dispute cases remain to be
resolved and unless land right claimants are duly informed and assisted by competent lawyers, they may not be in
position to stand and defend adequately their cases before the Cadastral Commissions including the Mobile ones
established to rush disputes resolution in "land conflict hotspots".
                                                                                              Page 5 of 11


        c.   Beyond the preparation of the Prakas on Identification and Mapping of State Land and State
             Land Classification financed under component 5, almost all of the remaining activities under
             Component (5) were proposed t o be cancelled and their budget reallocated, recognizing
             that "some state land identification, mapping and registration activities are being carried
             out through systematic and sporadic land registration processes (under component 3)
             It was also mentioned that the remaining activities of this component will be carried out
             after the Land Management Sub-sector Policy is in place and a related program adopted.

12.     Due to the non-implementation of the components and activities listed above, the project has
somehow deviated from its initial design described in the PAD and DCA as a multi-pronged approach to
address land issues comprehensively in Cambodia14.. The ERM found that the well defined and
intertwined components and activities of LMAP have been disconnected from each other, with
implementation focusing on the most successful parts (training, works and titling and registering non
disputed lands, as well as progress in enhancing and further developing the land policy and legal
framework including policies and regulations) while not addressing the other activities that would have
helped t o fully achieve the LMAP development objective t o improve land security. With the closing date
looming, it is urgent t o undertake as many activities as possible consistent with the project as originally
designed. However, if the Bank is t o continue to be engaged in the land sector in Cambodia beyond
2010, a thorough review is warranted to inform management on the overall land sector status and
related policy dialogue with the RGC15.
Question 2: Was the design decision to exclude areas of contested tenure appropriate in light of
increasing land prices, a quickening pace of resettlement, and adoption of forced evictions by
Government ?

13.     The rationale for this decision t o exclude disputed lands is articulated in the PAD: "classifying
land and demarcating the boundaries between the public and private domains [....I often be difficult
                                                                                      will
and may increase disputes in the short-run". This was recognized as a potential "Controversial Aspect"
in the PAD (Page 24) which explicitly mentions that "the project will not title lands in areas where
disputes are likely until agreements are reached on the status of the land. The project will support a
systematic public consultation process to help build consensus for decisions and will ensure continuous
discussions and consultations with NGOs and civil society. It is anticipated that some land now nominally
under state control (about 80% of the total) will be released t o the private domain. This will free
government resources to better manage the lands that remain under its control."

14.      The municipal authorities' actions targeting the land rights of the most valuable land, as
evidenced by reports by news media and/or NGOS of land evictions and/or lack of implementing titling
activities upon specific requests from communities are posing a challenge t o LMAP approach to land
titling, registration and management and are viewed by NGOs and community leaders as failure of the




13
   Aide memoire (11th Supervision Mission, January 2009) Pages 11-12.
14
   See Table in Annex 1
15
   Probably such review could also help develop TORSfor a learning ICR
                                                                                                      Page 6 of 11


LMAP which was not able t o address and tackle them effectively, while the Government is considering
them as separate issues outside the scope of LMAPI6.
15.      The ERM has concluded that although it was a sound decision t o exclude areas of contested
tenure from the titling and registration process until a due process was implemented t o classify and
demarcate the various categories of land, the demarcation criteria and procedures, although defined
under the Prakas on Identification and Mapping of State Land and State Land Classification supported by
component 5, were not implemented resulting in the absence of an official mapping of state land. This
is a real source of concern for those under threat of eviction because absent these maps, the relevant
municipal authority can exclude from titling any portion of land surveyed and proposed for adjudication
by the cadastre team and therefore titling it, implicitly, in the name of state. In fact, the absence of
State land mapping is identified as important shortcoming that needs t o be addressed for LMAP to
succeed and help solve land conflicts and security of tenure17. Therefore it may have been a sound
decision at the time of design t o target undisputed and uncontested areas for systematic titling; this
strategy should now be revisited and reviewed in light of LMAP development objective of improving
land security'*.
16.     It should be noted that, the DCA does not refer t o supporting land titling and registration
operations in undisputed areas and/or uncontested areas. Instead, it refers t o Project Provinces as the
area for the implementation of the land titling and registration activities. For this reason, it is important
that the Government commits to aligning land registration, titling, and adjudication policies and
procedures between LMAP-financed activities and provincial/municipal activities in Project Provinces
because the LMAP Project covers all lands in the Project Provinces as defined in the Development Credit
Agreement.
Question 3: Are resettlements in communities associated with LMAP being handled in a manner
consistent with the resettlement policy framework prepared for the project and the World Bank
established safeguard policies as applicable to the project?




16
   See footnote 17
 The
l7      Constitution of 1993 stipulates that: "The right to confiscate properties from any person shall be exercised
only in the public interest as provided for under the law and shall require fair and just compensation in advance"
(Article 44). However, it is a fact that, reality on the ground poses two serious challenges to the implementation of
the law and causes severe impacts to people involved. First, the majority of people have only possession rights t o
their land and the demarcation of the various categories of land is not done on the ground. Therefore people may
be unaware of what kind of land they are occupying. Determining if they are in "legal possession" of the land for
compensation purpose could be a major challenge. Secondly, the Right of Way is defined as state public land.
Many people occupy the Right of Way in good faith and may never have been informed about their "illegal" status.
The Land Law (Article 18), however, prohibits any "illegal" possession of land from being legalized. This may pose
significant problems for people occupying the Right of Way if implemented according to the letter of the law.
18
   Although the PAD does include some language about excluding from titling and registering "disputed lands", it
does not provide criteria or definition of how to identify such lands in view of excluding them from the titling
process (see Annex 11). Both the PAD, in some critical sections (Annex on Project Detailed Description) and the DCA
(Schedule 6) refer t o implementing the Project, including the systematic land titling in the Project Provinces
without any reference to excluding disputed lands.
                                                                                                   Page 7 of 11


17.      The PAD explicitly states that: "Agreement has been reached with the Ministty (MLMUPC)
regarding the approach to be used in the case of informal settlers including squatters. The Project: (a)
will issue land titles where there is agreement by the government t o provide the land t o be registered to
informal settlers, (b) will facilitate the provision of services and titling where the municipality is working
with development groups t o provide land t o informal settlers through land sharing and/or relocation
programs based on the UNCHS principleslg' and (c) will not issue titles where there is no agreement to
allocate the land to informal settlers or through land sharing and/or relocation programs. The Project
has developed procedures for screening and consultation to ensure that the above conditions are
agreed before provision of land registration and titling services." [...I. safeguard framework for the
                                                                             The
LMAP was developed accordingly.

18.      The LMAP safeguard framework has not been tested because of the decision discussed above
not t o implement titling activities in "disputed areas" or for "disputed land"20. The "procedures for
screening and consultation" were never developed and the ERM learned that in cases where the
relevant municipal authority decided to use the option not to title and register lands occupied by
informal settlers, no safeguards were applied, including the UNCHS principles2'.

19.     The instruction for systematic land registration procedures developed under LMAP" mention
the obligation t o undertake surveys, organize meetings with land occupiers, possessors or users, and
allow them a t the public display phase to file complaints and object to survey outcomes before the
administrative commission established for the purpose of the registration issues a final report. The lack
of implementation of component (3)) "carrying out of information and dissemination campaigns through
NGOs t o assist communities and land rights holders t o prepare for titling and registration of their rights"
and Component (4) provision of legal assistance to disadvantaged individuals and communities involved
in land disputes through specialized NGOs, has made the made the process less participatory and
transparent for the most vulnerable communities seeking land titling in an area t o be adjudicated in
urban areas, notably in the Phnom Penh province.

20.     The ERM visited the area which is located close to a wastewater canal and discussed with LMAP
team and the municipality authorities the specific case of this area which was surveyed for the purpose
of adjudication by the cadastre team. However, after the administrative commission has been
established, only part of the area was adjudicated and no explanation or reasons were provided to land
possessors for the excision of their plots. The ERM has not obtained other information about the
excision. The ERM also discussed with the representatives of the Municipality whether a resettlement

lgThe UNCHS program is based on international principles for shelter--Le., (a) Provide security of tenure; (b)
Promote the right to adequate housing; (c) Provide equal access t o land; (d) Promote equal access to credit; and
(e) Promote access to basic services and guidelines. This description of the UNCHS program was made public by
the Bank in the LMAP-related PID.
"It would be helpful to undertake a full due diligence on the cases submitted t o the Cadastral Commissions under
the Dispute Resolution Mechanisms t o assess cases where land claimant have been denied their request for titling
and what were the consequences in terms of applying safeguard. Although statistics about land dispute cases
have been mentioned, there is no easily accessible documentation on the substance of such disputes, or on
enforcement of the related Cadastral Commissions' decisions.
21
    See footnote 17
22
   Instruction of the MLMUPC, dated December 20, 2006
                                                                                                    Page 8 of 11


action plan will be implemented for those land possessors who were not found eligible for titling. No
answer was provided beside that the case was handled outside the purview of LMAP and defined as
related to disputed lands (i.e., State Land). It is the ERM's view that this is clearly an example where,
implementation of the dissemination and legal assistance activities could have helped affected persons
t o claim their rights, dispute the outcome of the titling and registration process and benefit from the
ESG as appropriate.

Question 4: Has the World Bank failed to detect the alleged abuses in implementation of the land law,
and raise them with the government?
21.      The ERM has learned that the Cadastral Administration, through LMAP, undertakes a basic
survey and recommends t o the relevant municipality or district t o implement a systematic titling
process. Because of the assumption that parcels of lands under dispute will not be surveyed and titled,
the relevant municipal authority has granted itself the unilateral right to excise portions of lands
surveyed by the Cadastral Administration. In doing so, it has decided not t o apply the systematic titling
t o those excised areas. In addition, for those people affected by the decision t o excise land, on which
they were established, from the area t o be adjudicated, there were no social safeguard that were
triggered. Affected persons interviewed by the ERM mentioned that no consultation was conducted, or
information provided to them, prior t o the decision t o excise an area from systematic titling and no legal
assistance provided to them to file claims on the basis of their possession rights and their rights to any
potential compensation or resettlement assistance.

22.      The overall design of the titling process, consistent with the 2001 Land law assumes that the
initial geographical area to be adjudicated and subject to systematic titling, should be mapped in i t s
entirety, indicating all existing plots and their current use in a participatory manner. This would give a
documentation of existing land use a t the surveying date. Users-possessors-renters rights must be
assessed and documented properly. If done accordingly, no de facto state land identification would be
done by excising areas from any adjudication area whether directed by the province/municipality or
otherwise determined. Ensuring that any process undertaken by any authority t o excise or exclude a
portion of land from the systematic titling area is transparent, public, and widely disseminated is an
important assumption strongly grounded in the applicable law supported by the LMAP23. The state land
identification (public and private) should be determined before or rather simultaneously to the
individually plot titling. This has not happened t o date in urban areas, which is why provinciaI/municipal
authorities are trying t o determine what would be state land, and asking it t o be excised from the
systematic titling process. State land (public and private) identification and mapping, must not be done




23
  It is the ERM understanding that any occupation or possession of land which commenced after the enactment of
the Land Law (August 30, 2001) is illegal and can provide ground for the competent authority to issue an eviction
order to the occupier or possessor t o vacate the land. However, the situation is different for those occupiers or
possessors claiming possession and use commencing before August 30, 2001 who can apply for either systematic
or sporadic land titling.
                                                                                                     Page 9 of 11


through unilateral excision, it must be done in a separate, transparent and participatory process as
mandated by relevant legal and regulatory provisionsz4.
                                           IV.     Recommendations

23.     In the view of the ERM, World Bank further involvement in land management and
administration beyond 2009 would require that LMAP take both remedial and forward-looking actions
t o implement essential components of the project and t o engage with all stakeholders involved or
impacted by the current land administration and management practices in Cambodia". For that t o be
corrected, the ERM considers the following remedial actions necessary:
         a.    Ensure that interim measures are put in place t o protect Indigenous Peoples lands until the
              sub-decree, adopted in May 2009, is implemented.
         b. Assist in facilitating access to sporadic titling, including prior information campaign and
            provision of legal assistance, for citizens and communities, especially those excluded from
            the systematic titling process in urban areas

         c.   Implement the needed land management-related investments including mapping of state
              land in urban areas where evictions are occurring under the assumption that evicted
              peoples were using state public land. If as mentioned t o the ERM this is t o be part of a
              follow up/separate project, it should be clarified officially to the Bank and principles agreed
              upon pending such clarification.

         d. Review the Technical Manual for land titling to include environmental and social safeguard
            provisions consistent with the ESG and provide appropriate implementation guidance to

24
   A Safeguard Review (non dated) of the Bank portfolio in Cambodia has provided what could provide an
explanation to the Phnom Penh Municipality actions t o excise parcels of lands from areas retained for
adjudication. That report mentions that: "number of Articles in the Land Law deal with the issue of illegal
occupation of land. Although Article 38 describes circumstances in which occupation of land for over five years can
give rise to ownership, Articles 29 and 34 makes it clear that no occupation starting after the date of the Land Law
(August 2001) can give rise t o ownership. Article 18 of the Land Law further defines illegal occupations of state
land and nullifies any attempt to legalize or regularize illegal occupation. However, In Cambodia, it is very
common for people to live on and doing business within the right of way (ROW). The government has never
announced that the Right Of Way (ROW) land is government land and often Cambodians, unaware of this, move
into the ROW zone for cultivation, business or even t o build their houses. The government does not challenge
their use of the ROW until they need it for road improvements, borrow pits etc. The Land Law prohibits
compensation payment to be made to persons "entering into possession of public properties of the State" or
"entering into possession of private properties of the State after August 2001 (date of the Land Law)." This policy,
coupled with the policy provision of recognizing only right of ownership for land compensation, is exposing a large
number of people using the ROW, particularly rural households, to the risk of deprivation and impoverishment, if
and when the land is recovered for road works. They could be rendered homeless and without apparent means
for production and survival. While recognizing the need t o establish a ROW, the ERM also believes that the
affected people within the ROW need to be assisted in the restoration of their livelihoods even if they do not have
ownership and legal right to the land. The current government policies and practice would need to improve to
achieve this purpose.
25
   MAP must not shielded itself from the area that it was designed to influence (land administration and
management practices in Project Provinces/municipality) in order to achieve its overall objective to secure land
rights including for those disadvantaged and poor communities in urban areas and indigenous peoples.
                                                                                               Page 10 of 11


             LMAP staff on the ESG. This is a critical action t o ensure that the ESG will be used as per
             their terms.
        e. Complete the recruitment of CSOs/NGOs in public awareness and community participation
           activities including in the initial survey of land area t o be adjudicated. Further systematic
           land titling should be scaled down until this has been done.
        f.    Recruit a specialized CBOs/NGO t o provide legal assistance t o land users, tenants,
             possessors and assist them with analysis and investigation into the legal ground for any
             ownership/tenure claims according t o the land law of 2001, and and/or grievance process
             before the Cadastral Commissions and courts in cases where eviction is deemed necessay
             in the name of public interest. Until such legal assistance is in place and working effectively,
             the Bank must advise the Government to suspend any further eviction.
24.   In addition the Bank, in coordination with all LMAP donors, may want t o engage the
Government in a broad policy dialogue t o prepare for a next phase of assistance t o the land sector. The
Government will be advised to:

        a.    Follow the LMAP ESG to mitigate and address any negative impact on persons and
             communities for any titling process t o be undertaken in Project Provinces, including the new
             provinces added t o LMAP and which are financed through a ClDA Grant. The ESG should be
             applied throughout the mapping, determination by province/municipality of excising areas,
             and eligibility criteria for assistance in titling. The ESG must be applied in the process of
             defining the boundaries of the adjudication area in consultation with all stakeholders
             including affected persons and communities. This is important in the absence of a national
             resettlement/compensation policy and legal framework. In doing so, the Government will
             also fulfill the recommendation not t o engage the LMAP in de facto state land
             identification by excising areas not to be titled, whether this is directed by the
             province/municipality or otherwise determined. In agreeing to do so, the Government will
             align land registration, titling, and adjudication policies and procedures, between LMAP-
             financed activities and provincial/municipal activities.
        b.    Implement, with donors assistance and with affected persons and communities'
             participation, on an urgent basis a social assessment of resettlement sites in and around
             Phnom Penh, where residents from inner city sites have been relocated after they have
             been evicted within the LMAP implementation period. In addition, plans should be
             prepared for these sites t o meet international standards in resettlement. One of the
             objectives of such assistance will be t o title and register lands in these resettlement areas in
             order t o secure the rights of resettled persons and communities and t o provide for sound
             environmental management of resettlement sites.

       c.     Beyond the LMAP, the RGC, the World Bank, other donors and stakeholders would be well
             advised to discuss potential assistance to the Government in finalizing the national
             resettlement policy and sub-decree prepared with ADB's assistance, which were reviewed
                                                                                   Page 11 of 11


    by the ERM and found in broad compliance with good international practices including
    UNHCS standards and World Bank policy on involuntary resettlement.

d. Beyond the current LMAP cycle, the ERM has learned that the Municipality of Phnom Penh
   is preparing a land use plan and a housing policy. The Municipality will be well advised to
   use this opportunity to further secure land rights for all communities, including those
   established in urban areas, and include them in a process which titles lands plots that are
   not located in clearly and transparently defined and delimitated state public land. Under
   such a clear and transparent approach, those who will not be eligible to receive title will be
   resettled in compliance with the resettlement policy and sub-decree mentioned above, or
   the LMAP agreed ESG if such sub-decree and policy are not yet effective.

e. The World Bank must assist the Government and the Municipality of Phnom Penh in
   learning from experiences of other countries which demonstrated how securing land rights
   and upgrading slums and shanty towns can be used as effective tools to fight poverty and
   enhance urban development processes and outcomes while improving the overall urban
   environment.
                                                           Annex 1

                                 Status o f LMAP Implementation, as of April 2009

                           Component                      Progress                             Still outstandinghues
                              Part A:          1 Strengthen capacity o f the
                                                .                                   1. Adoption o f IP policy and Sub-Decree on
                                               secretariat o f Land Policy          registration of IP communal lands (done in
                       Development o f Land    Council.                             May 2009)
                       Policy and Regulatory                                        2. Implementation o f interim measures to
                       Framework                                                    protect IP lands.
                                                                                    3. Clear definitions on roles and
                                                                                    responsibilities o f various RGC agencies are
                                                                                    yet to be defined.
                              Part B:          1. Built up capacity to do titling
                                               in `undisputed' areas,
                       Institutional           especially in rural settings.
                       Development             2. Land Administration courses
                                               taught in University
                              Part C:           1. 34 Land Registration Teams       1. No involvement o f NGO/CSOs in
                                               (LRT), each with 26 members,         information dissemination and community
                       Land titling Program    established and trained.             participation (often referred to as Public
                       and Development o f     2. More than a million titles        Awareness and Community Participation -
                       Land Registration       issued, mostly in rural areas.       PACT) in systematic titling.
                       System                  3. Progress on data                  2. Unclear reasons for excising areas from
                                               management and retrieval             systematic titling, thus excluding some
                                               regarding titles issued.             people from titling.
                                                                                    3. No sporadic titling i s done under the
                                                                                    project.
                                                                                    4. The strategic design choice26 o f only
                                                                                    titling undisputed land, and leaving the rest
                                                                                    untitled, should be reconsidered.
                              Part D:          1. Support to CC system.             1. No specialized legal NGOKBOs have
                                                                                    been engaged to provide assistance to
                      Strengthening                                                 disadvantaged communities involved in land
                      Mechanisms' for                                               disputes.
                      Dispute Resolution                                            2. The system o f Cadastral Commissions
                                                                                    may be in jeopardy with the creation o f
                                                                                    National Authority on Land Disputes, and
                                                                                    division o f responsibility i s unclear.
                              Part E:                                               Not implemented beside minor activities.

                         Land Management




26
     That is, not very clearly expressed in the PAD and n o t at all reflected in the DCA. See Annex II below.
                                                      Annex II

                               Excerpts from the PAD and Other LMAP Documents
                                  on the Issue of Titling or not Disputed Lands

                                                   PID (Page 12)



Safeguard Section: Resettlement:

"Agreement has been reached with MLMUPC regarding the approaches to be used in the case of
informal settlers including squatters. The project:
         (a) will issue titles where there is agreement by the government t o provide the land to be
registered to informal settlers,
         (b) will facilitate the provision of services and titling where the municipality is working with
United Nations Center for Human Settlements (UNCHS) and i t s partners t o provide land t o informal
settlers through land sharing and/or relocation programs, and
         (c) will not issue titles where there is no agreement to allocate the land t o informal settlers or
through municipality/UNCHS land sharing and/or relocation programs.

The UNCHS program is based on international principles for shelter--Le.,
       (a) Provide security of tenure;
       (b) Promote the right to adequate housing;
       (c) Provide equal access t o land;
       (d) Promote equal access t o credit; and
       (e) Promote access t o basic services and guidelines.

The project will develop procedures for screening and consultation to ensure that the above conditions
are agreed before provision of land registration and titling services. As the project will finance a
construction of a new office building for the Ministry and the rehabilitation/new construction of
provincial and district land offices, it was agreed with the government that these offices will be built on
vacant"


                                                   PAD (Page 12)

3. ..,,.," The proposed project takes a comprehensive approach in, supporting policy and regulatory
reforms, consensus building and institutional development along with land titling. It carefully sequences
activities so that systematic titling does not take place on lands with unclear status until after the status
is agreed with all stakeholders and boundaries between private and state domains demarcated."

..." During the process of classifying land and demarcating boundaries, all stakeholders will participate in
a process of public consultation to ensure general agreement with decisions. During systematic
adjudication, NGOs with specialized training in participation will work closely with villagers, explaining
the process, producing village land files, and ensuring that all members of the community who are
eligible for a land title will benefit from the Project."

                                                   PAD (Page 18)
5.1...."
       The project will also support the development of procedures and undertaking the preparation of
land classification maps in project provinces which define the boundaries between various categories of
land use, such as urban, agriculture forest, and protected areas. The preparation of these maps will be
done through a participatory process among local government officials, NGOs, and various national
government agencies to ensure proper protection of the environment and natural habitats."


                                                   PAD (Page 19)



6.1.     "Measures to help the disadvantaged: During project implementation local NGOs will be
contracted t o facilitate community participation during systematic adjudication. They will be responsible
for field work prior t o the commencement of systematic adjudication. Their scope of work will include
the following tasks: information dissemination, targeting women for education campaign on land laws
and titling procedures, conducting village baseline profiles, entering field data into the registration
database, analyzing registration records, producing consolidated village land files, explaining the
benefits of and procedures for registering subsequent transfers and provide support for local land use
planning and evaluation and monitoring. The project will provide the contracted NGOs with orientation
and training, including on gender-specific methods and tools for participation''

                                                   PAD (Page 20)

6.1.    "Informal Settlers. Agreement has been reached with the Ministry (MLMUPC) regarding the
approach t o be used in the case of informal settlers including squatters. The Project:
         (a) willissue land titles where there is agreement by the government t o provide the land t o be
registered t o informal settlers,
         (b) will facilitate the provision of services and titling where the municipality is working with
development groups to provide land t o informal settlers through land sharing and/or relocation
programs based on the UNCHS principles, and
         (c) will not issue titles where there is no agreement t o allocate the land t o informal settlers or
through land sharing and/or relocation programs. The Project has developed Drocedures for screeninq
and consultation to ensure that the above conditions are aareed before provision of land reaistration
and titlina services."


                                                   PAD (Page 24)



3 . Possible Controversial Aspects: "Classifying land and demarcating the boundaries between the public
and private domains, and, for land in the public domain, tracts under the control of various government
entities will often be difficult and may increase disputes in the short-run. The project will not title lands
in areas where disputes are likelv until aareements are reached on the status of the land. The project
will support a svstematic public consultation process to help build consensus for decisions and will
ensure continuous discussions and consultations with NGOs and civil societv. It is anticiaated that
some land now nominallv under state control (about 80% of the total) will be released to the Drivate
domain. This will free aovernment resources to better manaae the lands that remain under its
control."
                                                  PAD (Page 35)



                                                Project Description



Project Component 3 - Land Titlina Proaram and DeveloDment of Land Reaistration Svstems
(US$ 20.40 million)

"The component will support the issuance of first time land titles and the establishment of land
registration system to register land transactions, and will include: (a) information dissemination and
community organization; (b) systematic land titling program; (c) sporadic land titling program; and (d)
development of an efficient, transparent and effective land registration system.

        A. Information Dissemination and Community Participation:

            This sub-component will support information dissemination through mass media (television,
            radio and newspapers) and posters about systematic, sporadic land titling program, and
            land transaction registration. The information dissemination also includes support
            information dissemination to villagers undergoing systematic adjudication. Prior to the
            commencement of the land titling activities in the village, the project will organize an
            information campaign, through focus groups discussions and workshops t o explain the
            project objectives, rationale and benefits, and also explain the forms, the procedures and
            legal rights to each household. The information campaign will commence about one month
            before the surveying and adjudication starts.

            The project will hire and train local NGOs in the Droiect Drovinces t o undertake the village
            level information dissemination and community organization campaign including training
            and participation of mass organizations such as farmers associations. This sub-component
            will also include S U D D O ~ ~ the collection of villaae land Drofiles to define villaae
                                        for
            boundaries, describe land distribution, land market activitv and identifv anv me-existinq
            land disnutes. This information will be used in the planning of the titling program and later
            for monitoring the socioeconomic impacts of the project. A standard form for gathering the
            data will be developed during the pre-implementation period. These data will be inputted in
            a computerized database for easy reference and use.

        B. Svstematic Land Titlina Proaram:

            This sub-component will support the current initiatives of the MLMUPC in land titling (first-
            time land title registration) with further development and acceleration of the ongoing two
            pilot projects financed by the Finnish and German governments. The land titlina oroaram
            will cover ten iDrovinces and Phnom Penh municipalitv (Attachment 1 )and will cover both
                                                                                   1
            urban and rural areas.

           The sub-component will include the following activities: [......I    "Training in support of
           accelerated land titling" (i)..............;(ii)for svstematic adjudication teams in svstematic
   reaistration wocesses, land law. tmm'cirJation facilitation and dispute mediation; and (iii)
   training of provincial and district staff in legal, technical, and management subjects. [......I
C. SDoradic Land Titlina Proaram:
   The sub-component will support the issuance of titles (first-time issuance and registration of
   land titles) on demand in the project provinces. This support will include
        (i)      review of the current procedures for issuance of land titles and provide
                 modification if necessary,
        (ii)     preparation of sporadic adjudication manual,
        (iii)    training for staff of provincial and district land offices in the new procedures,
                 and
        (iv)     [ .......
                         ]
Cambodia


                                  ANNEX4:
                   TIMELINE THE BKL EVICTIONS THE BANK'S
            DETAILED      ON                AND        RESPONSE

Following the receipt of letters from NGOs highlighting the eviction issue, Management pursued a series
of actions to deal with these issues, including:
        Meeting with representatives of the communities and NGOs to hear concerns;
        Making the decision to undertake an Enhanced Review Mission (ERM) of LMAP;
        Carrying out an active dialogue with the authorities in which the issues were raised and solutions
        were offered (e.g., help Government finalize its policy and legal framework for resettlement:
        provide support to upgrade resettlement sites):
        Calling on the authorities-in meetings, letters and through a joint donor statement-to put a
        moratorium on evictions.
A timeline of these actions-many   of which were repeated numerous times-is    shown below.




                       visit the PMO informs donors that BKL is State Public Land and therefore




                                                                                                             I
March 2-3, 2009        Discussions with co-financiers (Germany, Canada, Finland)
March 4, 2009          CD travels to Phnom Penh to meet with NGO and Dey Krahorm representatives
                       in the Bank's Office to hear their concerns
March 4, 2009          Letter from Community Legal Education Center (CLEC) to CD regarding
                       Group 78 eviction
Shortly thereafter     Decision to undertake an ERM of LMAP
March 11, 2009         Letter from Country Manager (CM) to Senior Minister of Land (Sr. ML) regarding


                                                   78
                                                                                       Management Response


                         11`" Multi-Donor Supervision Mission and actions to fulfill covenants, including two
                         complaints raising concerns about evictions
March 24, 2009           Letter from CM to Sr. ML to announce LMAP ERM
April 1-10, 2009         LMAP ERM is in Cambodia
ADril 8 or 9, 2009       CD and RVP meet Secretary General, MEF at ASEAN Finance Ministers Summit
                         and advise him that Bank is undertaking a careful review of the application of
                         safeguards to the land disputes/evictions
April 9, 2009            Letter from BABSEA addressed to "the Board of the World Bank Group" attaching
                         a confidential draft report with list of questions, including reference to potential
                          Inspection Panel request. BABSEA Director subsequently clarified that report had
                         not been sent to the Board, Government or other Development Partners but
                         would be shared only after receiving response from Management, Actual
                         distribution took place in October 2009
April 10, 2009           SD and CM meet with Sr. ML and raise concerns about the evictions during a
                         broad discussion on land issues
April 20, 2009           Notification from MPP to all residents living on Sour Srun Company's land (Group
                         78) and public road
April 27, 2009           Letter from CD to BABSEA, CLEC, JRSC responding to their letter of April 9,
                         2009
April 30, 2009           In meeting with DPM, CM: (i) provides briefing on the preliminary findings of the
                         ERM; (ii) raises concerns about evictions and pending evictions of Group 78
                         residents; (iii) requests assistance in arranging meetings with MPP Authorities
                         and the Senior Minister of Land; and (iv) suggests a temporary moratorium on
                         evictions
April 30, 2009           CD writes to DPM to follow up on CM's meeting of the previous day and again
                         expresses same concerns; suggests a temporary moratorium until a policy and
                         legal framework for resettlement is in place
May 3,2009               CD and RVP meet with Secretary of State, MEF and Deputy Secretary General,
                         MEF at ADB Annual Meetings in-Bali. RVP expresses concerns about LMAP
                         implementation; Secretary of State (who was briefed ahead of time by CM)
                         indicates that he is aware of the issues, but that he has been advised that the
                         evictions were outside the scope of LMAP. Bank team indicates that there were
                         ongoing discussions/investigations about the nature of the linkages with LMAP;
                         agrees to discuss the issues further with the authorities
May 5,2009               CM meets with the Deputy Governor of Phnom Penh to (i) raise concerns on the
                         evictions and possible links to LMAP; and (ii) ask for a moratorium on evictions
May 6,2009               CM meets with Sr. ML to: (i) raise concerns on evictions and possible links to
                         LMAP; and (ii) ask for a moratorium on evictions; Sr. ML insists that there is
                         absolutely no link between any evictions and LMAP
May 18,2009              CD in Phnom Penh; meets with DPM and again raises same concerns
May 27,2009              CD and CM meet with Sr. ML to share: (i) preliminary findings from ERM; and (ii)
                         concerns about the evictions and possible links to LMAP, as well as to stress the
                         need: (i) to adhere to safeguards guidelines; and (ii) for a moratorium on
                         evictions. Again, Sr. ML insists that there is no link between any evictions and
                         LMAP
June 4,2009              CD and CM meet with land NGOs and the Bank Information Center in Bangkok.
                         Update provided on situation of evictees from Dey Krahorm and possible Group
                         78 eviction
June 12,2009             Task team facilitates meeting between NGOs and TWG-L
July 8, 2009             CD letter to DPM following up letter of April 30
July 15, 2009            Bank shares the ERM Report with authorities through letter from CD to Sr. ML
July 16, 2009            The Bank issues a joint statement with other Development Partners calling for a
                     I   halt to evictions of Cambodia's urban poor
July 17, 2009        I   CD meets with Sr. ML to discuss ERM report and concerns about the handling of      -
                     I   land disputes in Phnom Penh


                                                     79
Cambodia


July 17, 2009           Eviction of Group78 community
July 22, 2009           CD letter to Sr. ML following up on meeting of July 17; raises concerns about the
                        BKL residents and proposes a supervision mission for LMAP with expertise on
                        resettlement issues
July 22, 2009          64 Cambodian and International NGOs endorse July 16 Development Partners
                       joint statement
July 30, 2009           CD second letter to authorities proposing an Environmental and Social
                       Safeguards Review Mission in early August to: (i) review implementation of
                       safeguards in relation to land allocation and land titling activities in BKL area; (ii)
                       assess environment impacts of lake filling and related dredging; and (iii) assess
                       social impacts of filling of the lake and dredging on adjacent communities
July 30, 2009           Letter from CM to Phnom Penh Governor twice requesting meetings for the
                       Safeguards Review Mission
July 31, 2009           Letter from Acting CM to Secretary of State at Council of Ministers to request a
                        meeting with Safeguards Review Mission
August 3-5, 2009       Safeguards Review Mission in Cambodia
August 4,2009           Second letter from CM to Phnom Penh Governor requesting meetings for
                     I Safeguards Review Mission
August 5,2009        I Letter from Task Team Leader to LMAP Project Director requesting information
                       for Safeguards Review Mission and reminding of obligations undeithe DCA
August 5,2009           Meeting with community representatives and NGOs at NGO Forum
August 10,2009          First formal eviction notices in BKL.
August 13,2009         Letter from CM to Phnom Penh Governor requesting meeting to discuss issues
                       related to BKL area
August 14,2009         Letter from Cambodian Housing Rights Task Force to CD and Task Team Leader
                       regarding the ESG and the RPF
August 17,2009         Letter from CD to Sr. ML to: (i) raise concerns about the evictions and the link
                       between BKL and LMAP; and (ii) remind of obligations under the DCA
August 21,2009         Letter from Acting CM to Phnom Penh Governor requesting meeting to discuss
                                                                                     -          -
                       issues related toBKK Lake area
August 21,2009         Meeting with community representatives and NGOs at WB Phnom Penh office
August 27-28, 2009     Visit of RVP to Cambodia. Meets with 3 DPMs, PM's Adviser, Sr. ML, Minister of
                       Commerce, NGOs and Development Partners. PM cancels meeting with RVP. All
                       discussions focus on LMAP, including the need for: (i) a moratorium on evictions;
                       and (ii) a resettlement policy. Offers to support the authorities to: (i) put into place
                       a legal and policy framework; and (ii) help upgrade resettlement sites. RVP
                       proposes a joint suspension of the Project while work is ongoing to improve
                       resettlement policy and regulatory framework
September 4,2009       Council of Ministers decides to cancel remainina LMAP Credit. DPM informs CM
                       of Government's decision to cancel LMAP with rmmediate effect; indicated that
                       formal letter is forthcoming
September 6, 2009      Bank issues public statement and posts ERM report on the web
SePtember 7, 2009      Bank receives letter (DPM, MEF to RVP) reauestina cancellation of undisbursed




                                                    80
                                                                                      Management Response




                                       ANNEX5:
                                 STATEMENT AND NGO RESPONSE
                             DONOR
                                            Public Statement:

DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS CALL FOR HALT TO EVICTIONS OF CAMBODIA'S URBAN POOR

July 16, 2009- Development Partners are calling upon the Royal Government of Cambodia to stop
forced evictions from disputed areas in Phnom Penh and elsewhere in the country until a fair, and
transparent mechanism for resolving land disputes is put in place and a comprehensive resettlement
policy is developed.

Development Partners recognize that land issues are an ongoing challenge to development in Cambodia
and urge the Government to adopt fair and transparent systems for land titling, including in urban areas,
which recognize and protect the equal rights of all citizens. Development Partners stand ready to support
the establishment of national policy guidelines which would ensure that evictions and resettlement follow
due legal process and provide just compensation to affected individuals.

The World Bank and a number of Development Partners have been working closely with the Government
on securing land titling in Cambodia. The Government is commended for issuing more than one million
land titles because this offers the opportunity for improved growth and poverty reduction.

However, in an environment of escalating urban land values in Cambodia and speculative land buying
and selling, urban dwellers are under threat of being moved to make way for high value property
development. This has become a major problem in Phnom Penh and other fast growing cities in
Cambodia - creating uncertainty for, and putting at risk the livelihoods of, thousands of poor people living
in disputed urban areas. This is a result of policies and practices that do not reflect good international
practice in dispute resolution and resettlement and do not make effective use of the procedures and
institutions allowed for in Cambodian law.

International experience has established that secure land tenure is vital in ensuring economic growth and
reducing poverty and that fair, well-implemented resettlement processes are key to an effective land
tenure and titling system and protecting the rights of all people.

Development Partners reaffirm their commitment to work with the Government to help address land
issues in a just and equitable manner and to ensure that the rights of poor people are promoted and
protected.

signed by:
Embassy of Australia Embassy of Bulgaria
Embassy of Denmark / Danida
Embassy of Germany
Embassy of the United Kingdom
Embassy of the United States of America
Swedish International Development Agency (Sida)
Asian Development Bank
Delegation of the European Commission
United Nations
World Bank

            contact: Saroeun Bou, World Bank +855 23 21 7301 Email: sbou@worldbank.org




                                                    81
Cambodia


                      Statement from Non Government Organizations (NGOs)

We are 64 non-government organizations working for the development of Cambodia. We have seen the
16 July statement entitled "DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS CALL FOR HALT TO EVICTIONS OF
CAMBODIA'S URBAN POOR", issued by development partners of the Cambodian Government
(Embassy of Australia, Embassy of Bulgaria, Embassy of Germany, Embassy of the United Kingdom,
Embassy of the United States of America, Embassy of Denmark / Danida, Swedish International
Development Agency (Sida), Asian Development Bank, Delegation of the European Commission, United
Nations, World Bank).

We are appreciating to see that the development partners have supported a concern that non
government organizations have been raising for many years. We express our support for the statement.
We too are concerned about forced evictions throughout rural and urban Cambodia. We will continue to
cooperate with the Cambodian Government to help address land issues in a just and equitable manner
and to ensure that the rights of poor people are promoted and protected.

For further Information:

Mr. Sok Sam Oeun, Chairman of CHRAC/Executive Director of CDP
Tel: 012 901199

 Mr. Thun Saray, President of ADHOC
Tel: 016 880509

 Mr. Chhith Sam Ath, Director, NGO Forum on Cambodia
Tel: 012 928585.

Mr. Lun Borithy, Executive Director of CCC
Te: 012 802 384

Mr. Dr. Sin Somuny, Executive Director of Medicam
Tel: 012 573062

Mr. Sia Phearum, Housing Rights Task Force secretariat
Tel: 012 852 325

      Cambodian NGOs
              1            I ADHOC
                                                                                            ~




              3             Building Community Voice
              4             Cambodia HIV/Aids Education and Care
                            CARDH




                                                 82
                                                                  Management Response




            22   HROTP
            23   HRTF
            24   ICs0
~~~   ~~~
            25   IDA
            26   KID
            27   KIND
            28   KKKHRO
            29   KKKHTDA
            30   KYA
            31   LAC
            32   LICADHO
            33   MEDiCAM
            34   Mlup Baitong
            35   NGO Forum on Cambodia
            36   PADEK
            37   PDP-Center




            13   LWF
            14   Maryknoll Cambodia
            15   NPA
            16   NTFP-EP
            17   Oxfam GB (0America, 0 Aust, OHK, OGB, 0 NOVIB)
            18   Union Aid Abroad - APHEDA
            19   Veterans International
            20   World Vision

            64   TOTAL




                                     83
  Cambodia


                                             ANNEX6:
                                 SUPERVISION HISTORY COSTS
                                                   AND


  SPN Mission         PSR/ISR                               Mission Participants
     & Key         [Sequence and
   Milestones      Archived Date]
                  February 26,      Board Approval
                  2002
                  #1                Initial PSR
                  March 3, 2002
May 13-17,2002    #2                    Task Team Leader #1
1 supervision     May 31,2002           Senior Anthropologist
mission                                 Senior Financial Management Specialist
Project Launch                          Procurement Officer
Workshop on                             Land Administration Consultant
May 15th, 2002                          Representative of the Government of Finland attended the wrap-
                                        up meeting
                                        Representative of the Government of Germany
June 19,2002                        Project effectiveness
October 9-1 1,    #3                   Task Team Leader #1
2002,             November 21,         Agricultural Economist
Pd supervision    2002                 Land Administration Consultant
mission                                Senior Financial Management Specialist undertook a financial
                                       management review before the arrival of the mission
                                       Representative of the Government of Finland
                                       Representative of GTZ
May 5-12, 2003    #4                   Task Team Leader #1
3rdsupervision    June 19,2003         Legal Counsel
mission                                Social Development and Participation Officer
                                       Social Development Consultant
                                       Land Administration Consultant
                                       Procurement Officer
                                       Financial Management Specialist
                                       2 Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                       Representative of the Government of Germany
                                       Representatives of ADB participated in key meetings
                  #5                No mission: PSR prepared by Task Team Leader #1
                  December 18,
                  2003
January 5-12,     #6                   Task Team Leader #1
2004              February 19,         Future Task Team Leader #2
4Ih supervision   2004                 Social Development Specialist
mission                                Land Management Specialist, F A 0 Consultant
                                       Social Development Consultant
                                       Procurement Officer
                                       Procurement Analyst
                                       Financial Manager Specialist
                                       Social Development Specialist joined the mission part-time
                                       Representative of the Government of Finland
                                       Representative of the Government of Germany
                                       Representative of ADB


                                                  84
                                                                                  Management Response



  SPN Mission          PSR/ISR                             Mission Participants
      8 Key
       t           [Sequence and
   Milestones       Archived Date]
vlav 17-29,2004    17                   Task Team Leader #I
jthsupervision     4ugust 25,2004       Senior Operations Officer
nission                                 Future Task team Leader #2
                                        Social Development Officer
                                        Land Policy Specialist, FA0 Consultant
                                        Social Development Specialist
                                        Social Development Consultant
                                        Procurement Officer and Financial Management Specialist
                                        participated part-time
                                        Representative of the Government of Canada
                                        Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                        Representative of the Government of Germany
                                        Representatives of ADB and JlCA participated in key meetings
June 1, 2004                         Change of Task Team Leader
September 27 -     #8                   Task Team Leader #2
October 11, 2004   November 30,         LASED Mission Leader, Senior Operations Officer
Bth supervision    2004                 Senior Land Policy Specialist
mission and Mid-                        Senior Land Counsel
term Review                             Rural Development Officer
                                        Social Development Consultant
                                        Land Administration Consultant
                                        Land Management Consultant
                                        Institutional Development and Project Management Consultant
                                        Chief Land Tenure Service, FAO, Land Valuation Specialist
                                        Procurement Officer and Financial Management Specialist
                                        participated in the mission on a part-time basis
                                        Senior Safeguards Specialist participated in a review prior to
                                        commencement of the mission
                                        Sector Manager, EASRD and Resource Management Analyst
                                        participated in the mission from September 28-October 3
                                        Representative of the Government of Canada
                                        Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                        Representative of the Government of Germany
                                         Representative of ADB
                                         Representatives of JlCA and DANIDA participated in key meetings
June 6-10,2005     #9                   Task Team Leader #2
7Ihsupervision     June 23,2005          Senior Operations Officer
mission                                  Rural Development Officer
                                         Social Development Consultant
                                         Land Administration Consultant
                                         Procurement Officer and Financial Management Specialist
                                         participated in the mission on a part-time basis
                                         Representatives of the Government of Canada
                                         Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                         Representatives of the Government of Germany
                                         Representatives of ADB
                                         Representatives of JlCA and DflD participated in key meetings.
November 28-       #10                   Task Team Leader #2
December 5,        December 29,          Operations Officer
2005               2005                  Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant


                                                  85
      Cambodia


      SPN Mission          PSR/ISR                             Mission Participants
                        [Sequence and
       Milestones       Archived Date
                                            Valuation Consultant
                                            Land Management Consultant
                                            Procurement Specialist
                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                            Fiduciary Specialist Consultant
                                            Lead Operations Officer and Rural Development Officer attended
                                            key meetings
                                            Representatives of the Government of Canada
                                            Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                            Representatives of the Government of Germany
                                            Representative of ADB
~   June 6,2006                         Suspension of disbursement
                       #11              No mission: ISR prepared by Task Team Leader #2
                       June 20,2006
    February 5, 2007                    Suspension of disbursement lifted
    May 30-June 8,     #12                  Task Team Leader #2
    2007               June 23,2007         Sector Manager
    gthsupervision                          Future Task team Leader #3
    mission and        #13                  Rural Development Officer
    Project review     June 26, 2007        Operations Officer
                                            Procurement Specialist
                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                            Land Registration Consultant
                                            Land Management and Education Consultant, F A 0
                                            Chief, F A 0 Land Tenure and Management Unit
                                            Project Management and Governance Consultant
                                            Representatives of the Government of Canada
                                            Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                            Representatives of the Government of Germany
    June 15,2007                        Change of Task Team Leader
                       #14              No mission: ISR prepared by Task Team Leader #3
                       December 28,
                       2007
    December 31,                        Extension of closing date from December 31, 2007, to December 31,
    2007                                2009
    June 4-1 1,2008    #15              *   Task Team Leader #3
    1Oth supervision   June 27,2008         Land Specialist
                                        *   Legal Consultant
                                        *   Financial Management Specialist
                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                        *   Procurement Specialist
                                        *   Procurement Specialist
                                        *   Representatives of the Government of Canada
                                        *   Representatives of the Government of Finland
    January 12-23,     #16              *   Task Team Leader #3
    2009               April 8, 2009    *   Land Specialist


                                                     86
                                                                                            Management Response


  SPN Mission                PSR/ISR                                 Mission Participants
      i3t Key             [Sequence and
   Milestones             Archived Date]
11'" supervision                                 Legal Consultant
mission                                          Financial Management Specialist
                                                 Financial Management Specialist
                                                 Senior Procurement Specialist
                                                 Procurement Specialist
                                                 Good Governance Consultant
                                                 Chief, FA0 Land Tenure and Management Unit
                                                 Representatives of the Government of Canada
                                                 Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                                 Representatives of the Government of Germany
June 8-12,2009            #17 [draft]            Task Team Leader #3
12 th supervision         July 8, 2009           Land Specialist
mission                                          Legal Consultant
                                                 Financial Management Specialist
                                                 Procurement Specialist
                                                 Representatives of the Government of Canada
                                                 Representatives of the Government of Finland
                                                 Representatives of the Government of Germany
August 3-5, 2009          #17 [current]          Task Team Leader #3
Safeguards                October 30,            Regional Safeguards Advisor
Review Mission            2009                   Senior Social Scientist
                                                 Land Specialist Consultant
                                                 Legal Consultant
September 7,                                 Cancellation of undisbursed credit
2009

                              Chart 1. Supervision Costs": Bank Budget and FAO-CP
           I
                                140,000

                                120,000

                                100,000

                                 80,000

                                 60,000

                                 40,000

                                 20,000




                    (')   Excluding fiduciary supervision



                                                            87
Cambodia


                                             ANNEX7:
                                        LANDSECTORREPORTS

1. Beneficiary Assessment of Land Title Recipients under the Land Management and
   Administration Project, Robert Deutsch, Team Leader, January 2006
          In order to assess how LMAP is seen by the beneficiaries and to provide feedback to help
          improve the effectiveness of the process, LMAP and its donor partners commissioned the
          independent Beneficiary Assessment (BA-I) of the systematic land-titling component in late
          2005. The main outputs of the BA-l were set as follows: (1) to produce recommendations
          which will enable LMAP and its partners to strengthen the areas in systematic land titling and
          enhance their impact and effectiveness as a partner in local development; (2) to enable
          LMAP to review its guidelines and procedures and propose future strategy directions for its
          operations.

2. Legal Note: Identification/Demarcation/Classification of State Land and Permanent Forest
   Estate, John W. Bruce, Consultant, World Bank, 12/05/08
           The note provides an orientation to key issues in State Land management generally, then
           turns to the legal framework under which various State agencies identify, classify and
           manage State Land in Cambodia. It focuses primarily upon State Land identification and
           demarcation under Sub-decrees 118 and 53, which concern the Ministry of Lands, Urban
           Planning and Construction (MLMUPC) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries,
           but also makes brief mention of ongoing identification and demarcation efforts by some other
           agencies holding State land.

3. Comments on Anticipated Subsidiary Legislation State Land Management Sub-Decree, No.
   118/2005, John W. Bruce, LMAP Consultant, December 23,2004
          To review plans for subsidiary legislation under the recently enacted State Land Management
          Sub-Decree.

4.   Review of Experiences in Land Distribution In Cambodia, Katia Halabi, Consultant, August
     2005
           In preparation of LASED program MLMUPC, the World Bank and GTZ required information to
           ensure that the preparation of this project can be tailored to the particular context of
           Cambodia, and draw benefit from past experiences in this country relating to land distribution.
           The review assesses and describes various experiences with settlement and land distribution
           in Cambodia, and assisted to prepare advisory guidelines on how key issues could be
           addressed by the LASED program.

5. External Evaluation of the Cadastral Commission of the Ministry of Land Management, Urban
   Planning and Construction, Boris Dongelmans and Suon Visal, TA GTZ, July 28, 2004
          The report assesses the implementation of the mandate of the Cadastral Commission (CC);
          identifies opportunities for developing the CC within the emerging Cambodian context,
          building on lessons of experience; and determines whether LMAP assists the work of the CC.

6. Pilot Independent Review of Systematic Land Titling Field Systems and Procedures
   (Transparency and Accounfabj/jfy), Consultant Declan O'Leary, February 2005
           The key objectives of this independent field monitoring are:
                a. To conduct random field interviews, gather information on quality and levels of
                    compliance (with particular reference to transparency and accountability issues)
                    and provide feedback to MLMUPC and LMAP. In doing so, the Independent Field
                    Monitors will determine, based on verifiable field evidence, how LMAP-supported
                 ,  systematic titling work in the urban areas is being perceived (on transparency and
                    accountability issues) by the beneficiaries, NGOs/civil society groups, and how
                    these people believe the work can be improved.



                                                    88
                                                                                      Management Response



                  b. To recommend follow-up action, on key areas, so that transparency and
                     accountability of LMAP's systematic titling systems and procedures are
                     strengthened and so that communities obtain the greatest possible benefit from the
                     commitments and work of the government.

7. Potential Poverty and Social Impacts of Cambodia's proposed Social Land Concession
              -
   Program Presentation and Discussion of Results and Recommendations from the PSIA
   exercise, MLMUPC, General Secretariat of Social Land Concession, GTZ-LMAP, Land
   Management and Administration Project, Oxfam GB, Cambodia World Bank, EASRD, Khorn
   Dinravy and Andreas Groetschel, May 2004
          The objectives of the workshop were
              a. To disseminate the findings of the studies carried out in the framework of the PSIA,
              b. To present preliminary recommendations for a potential SC implementation program,
                 and
              c. To receive feedback on important issues for a larger scale program.

8. Monitoring and Evaluation Review of LMAP, Tony Burns, November-December 2005
          The major objectives of this report were to:
              a. Review the LMAP Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system and the M&E chapter in
                 the LMAP PMO Manual:
              b. Review the current system of productivity allowances:
              c. Undertake an overall review of financial management, including the payment of fees
                 and allowances:
              d. Review the LMAP Project Management Reports (PMRs) and the independent
                 monitoring review and other relevant documents;
              e. Prepare detailed recommendations on the implementation of the LMAP M&E system
                 and outline possible changes to the productivity based allowances.

9. Introduction of a Land Valuation System in Cambodia, Report GTZ, and Land Valuation
   Report, 2005
          Studies to assist MLMUPC to design a land valuation system (LVS) which is simple,
          transparent, just, effective and not costly to set up and to maintain.

10. Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project, Draft Report on Organisational and
    Institutional Issues, W. A. Robertson
             The report reviews structure and systems in the MLMUPC as well as Project management,
             training at all levels and capacity building for management and technical and operational
             activity. As well this report considers the appropriate institutional aspects of the
             operationalisation of the Council of Land Policy; the structure of the secretariat and the role
             and responsibilities of the council and the secretariat.

11. Review of the Technical Specifications for National Ground Control Survey Works, Cambodia,
    prepared by Finnmap for LMAP, Henry J. Houghton, October 2004
           Objective of the review were:
               a. Review the technical specifications prepared by Finnmap TA for LMAP against best
                   practice for horizontal and vertical geodetic networks:
               b. Prepare a short report which will advise on whether the specifications are technically
                   sound, consistent with best geodetic practice, and appropriate for implementation in
                   Cambodia:
               c. Identify further issues which the specifications need to address to ensure that the
                   networks will be sustainable.

12. Cambodia Land Titling Program: Baseline Survey Project, Final Report: Rural Phase I (Draft
    for Comments Only), Brett Ballard and So Sovannarith, Cambodia Development Resource
    Institute, in Collaboration with the Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning, and
    Construction, Phnom Penh, Cambodia, July 26, 2004


                                                    89
Cambodia


            The report on the collection of baseline data that will be used to assess the economic and
            social impact of land titles after three years. The Baseline Survey Project interviewed 1,232
            rural households in 40 villages in 10 communes of five provinces during 19 January - 29
            February 2004. The four LMAP provinces include Kompong Cham, Kompong Thom,
            Sihanoukville, and Takeo. The fifth province, Kompong Chhnang, is not in LMAP and serves
            as the control province for comparison with the four Project provinces. Households were
            randomly selected from village lists according to landholding size and gender. An additional
            urban 99 households were interviewed in Sihanoukville city (Sangkhat 2) and will be included
            in the final report along with the findings of the second phase of the baseline survey project in
            and around Phnom Penh.

13. Spatial Data Infrastructure (SDI) Policy Development for the Kingdom of Cambodia, Mathew
    Warnest, GTZ Technical Advisor, June 2005
            This exploratory report identifies the spatial information and activities of key Ministries, donor
            and support agencies and makes recommendations for the use, management and
            coordination of spatial information for consideration by the MLMUPC, the General Secretariat
            for the Council of Land Policy (GS-CLP) and the central PMO of the LMAP. The LAMDP is a
            long term program, envisaged in the 2001 Royal Cambodian Government Statement on Land
            Policy and is expected to be implemented over 15 years. A comprehensive land information
            system is recognized as critical to the success of LAMDP.

14. Speeding up the DKCC Procedure in Land Dispute Resolution. Findings and
    Recommendations with Regard to a Short Time Assignment in Support of the National
    Cadastral Commission on the Introduction of Mobile Teams, GTZ, Consultant Thomas
    Zitelmann, November 2007
           Purpose of this report is to provide suggestions for speeding up dispute resolution
           procedures within the work of the district offices of the Cadastral Commissions (CC). The
           findings are based on qualitative data deriving from an ethnographic perspective on the first
           two weeks of work of the two Mobile Teams (MT) under the 2" Performance Based CC Pilot,
           which took place in Cheung Prey and Memot districts, both Kampong Cham province.

15. An Assessment of Land Management and Land Administration Education in Cambodia, GTZ
    and LMAP, Professor Sue Nichols, PhD., University of New Brunswick, August 3,2004
          The main purpose of this evaluation was to design an action plan for improving and
          sustaining the 4 year Bachelor program established in the Faculty of Land Management and
          Land Administration (FLMLA) at the Royal University of Cambodia (RUA). The program is
          entering its third year and has had extensive support in teaching, curriculum development,
          and technical assistance from Germany and from the Land Management and Administration
          Project (LMAP) in the Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning, and Construction
          (MLMUPC) .

16. Facilitating the Process of Developing an Enhanced Program based Approach for Support to
    the Land Agenda in Cambodia, Klaus Talvela, Global Donor Platform for Rural Development,
    March 2006
            Report of the facilitation Mission of the Global Donor Platform for Rural Development
            (GDPRD) in the Land sector of Cambodia. Mission outputs included:
                a. An updated log frame agreed amongst stakeholders for the land sector based on
                    RGC's 'Strategy of Land Policy Framework,
                b. Partnership principles guiding streamlining and coordination of donor support
                    amongst donors and with RGC for the land sector.

17. Cambodia Land Titling Program Baseline Survey Project, Final Report: Urban Phase II, Brett
    Ballard and Phim Runsinarith, Cambodia Development Resource Institute in collaboration with
    the Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction (MLMUPC), Phnom Penh,
    Cambodia, August 17,2007



                                                     90
                                                                                      Management Response


            Report on the collection of baseline survey data in and around Phnom Penh, Siem Reap and
            Serey Sophoan (Le., Banteay Meanchey) from October to December 2005. CDRl conducted
            2,706 household interviews in areas representing a mix of property characteristics (e.g.,
            location, services) and land use patterns (e.g., residential, commercial), as well as dynamics
            (e.g., transactions, documentation, conflicts). The primary objective of the urban baseline
            survey project, as with an earlier rural survey project, is to generate data that will provide a
            basis for a systematic comparative ex-poste evaluation of the economic and social impact of
            the land titling programme after.a certain period of time.

18. Center for Advanced Study, Towards Institutional Justice? An Assessment of the Work of
    Cambodia's Cadastral Commission in Relation to Land Disputes (2006)
           This is a mixed methods study on the Cambodian Cadastral Commission (CC), a body set up
           in June 2002 to resolve disputes involving unregistered land. It was conducted by the Center
           for Advanced Study in collaboration with the World Bank Justice for the Poor Program, NCC
           Secretariat and GTZ. The study undertakes a review of the functioning of the CC and
           evaluates a new case managementhcentive scheme which was being piloted with the
           support of GTZ. Data sources include: (a) a survey of party satisfaction with the CC process,
           (b) an analysis of case files at district and provincial level offices of the CC; (c) semi-
           structured interviews with CC staff; and (d) qualitative case studies of land disputes before
           the CC. The study finds that the pilot did have a positive effect on the work of the CC but that
           it was poorly designed from an evaluation perspective and as such that it is difficult to
           quantify the impact. The report also includes recommendations for reforms which could
           enhance the extent to which the CC offers access to justice for the poor.

19. Center for Advanced Study, Justice for the Poor? An Exploratory Study of Collective

        .
    Grievances over Land and Local Governance in Cambodia (2006)
           This paper represents the result of a series of case studies on land disputes analyzed in the
           light of previous scholarship dealing with issues of power and social structure in Cambodian
           villages. In trying to generate a more nuanced understanding of the ways in which power is
           exercised in rural Cambodia the paper looks specifically at collective grievances. This choice
           is informed by the possibility that collective action will offer an opportunity for the otherwise
           weak to extract greater responsiveness and accountability from the State. The paper's key
           findings relate to the existence of multiple rule systems for land management; the propensity
           for the tension between law and practice in land management to cause disputes; and the
           problematic nature of the attempt to impose legalhational forms of authority on social
           relations that are structured around patrimonial power. In the absence of equitable rule based
           systems for allocating resources and resolving disputes the study concludes that political
           mobilization will be a necessary precursor to the success of rights based strategies.




                                                    91
Cambodia


                                       ANNEX8A:
                                  PROCUREMENTPROCESS:
                                                  PROGRAM
                                       PARTICIPATION
                               COMMUNITY


     Assignment   - Enhancing Community Participation and Independent Field Monitoring of the
                      Implementation of LMAP components in the 11 target provinces
                                Procurement Process carried out by LMAP
                                Year 2004 - 2005 (before Project suspension)
                                                    Steps
1.   June 10, 2004 - LMAP submitted first draft Request for Proposals (RFP), including the Terms of
     Reference (TOR) to the Bank for review. The Bank reviewed and clarified with LMAP during the
     mission on July 26-27, 2004.
2.   August 25, 2004 - LMAP submitted revised draft RFP and draft Request for Expression of Interest
     (REOI). The Bank commented on the RFP on the same date and sent comment on REO1 to LMAP on
     September 1, 2004.
3.   SeDtember 2.2004 - LMAP sent revised RFP (includina TOR) and REOI. The Bank issued no
                                                         1


     obj'ection letter on September 2, 2004.
4.   LMAP advertised EO1 from September 21 - 24, 2004 and sent the evaluation report of EOls to the
     Bank on January 26, 2005. As-the estimated cost for each contract (per province) would be around
     $30,000, it was subject to Bank post review; the Bank provided no objection to the proposed short-
     listed NGOs on February 13, 2005 and informed LMAP to proceed further according to the Bank's
     Guidelines and retain documents for the Bank's post review.




                                                  92
                                                                                    Management Response




     Assignment   - Effective Information Dissemination, Enhancing Community participation and
                             Transparency in the LMAP Activities (1 1 provinces)
                                 Procurement Process carried out by LMAP
                                                     Steps
1.   LMAP submitted TOR for the Bank's prior review on October 12, 2006, taking into consideration the
     requirements of Annex 7 of the Action Plan for lifting suspension.
-    Bank responded with comments to the TOR on October 20, 2006.
2.   LMAP sent the revised TOR to the Bank on November 28, 2006. LMAP also stated that the
     recruitment of the consultants for this assignment would be conducted by the Procurement Agent.
3.   The Bank provided no objection to the revised TOR on November 29, 2006, and advised LMAP to
     complete the next initial steps in the selection process (RFP and advertising of REOI) which were
     conditions for lifting suspension, and indicating that the rest of the procurement process could be
     completed by the procurement agent. [To be noted that in accordance with the suspension letter and
     amendment to the legal agreement of July 6,2006, an independent procurement agent was required
     to be engaged and all procurement under the Project was required to be undertaken by such
     independent procurement agent.]
4.   LMAP submitted draft REO1 and RFP to the Bank on December 19, 2006.
5.   On Dec. 21,2006 Bank provided no objection to REO1 and asked LMAP to advertise it in the
     newsDaDer. and revise the RFP bv usina the Bank's Standard Format. On December 22. 2006. the
     Bank'oi be'half of LMAP also sent the <EO1 for advertising in UNDB.
6.   LMAP submitted revised draft RFP to the Bank on January 12, 2007.
-    Bank provided comment on draft RFP and advised to use-CQS method on January 15, 2007.
7.   LMAP informed Bank on January 16, 2007 that LMAP received EO1 responses from 7 NGOs/Firms.
8.   On Jan. 23,2007 LMAP submitted revised RFP and informed the Bank on Jan. 25,2007 that LMAP
     was starting the process of evaluation of EOls.
     - Bank provided no objection to the RFP on Jan. 24, 2007
     - While the conditions for lifting suspension were met, there were no further steps taken in the
         selection process as the Procurement Agent did not get engaged by MEF until Nov 2007.
     - Because of the delay in the appointment of the procurement agent, the selection process was
         started again from the beginning by the procurement agent.




                                                   93
Cambodia




                     -
        Assignment Effective Information Dissemination, Enhancing Communitv ParticiPation and
                  Transparency in the LMAP Activities (11 provinces) Estimated cosi $70,000
                  Procurement Process carried out by Independent Procurement Agent (IPA)
                                                         Steps
1.    IPA submitted TOR to the Bank for review on February 28, 2008.
-     Bank provided no objection on March 4, 2008.
-     REO1 was advertised in UNDB online on March 10,2008 and in the newspaper on March 7,2008.
2.    IPA received 5 EOls, prepared the evaluation of EOls and sent the evaluation report to the Bank on
      August 27, 2008 even though the assianment was subiect to post review due to special circumstance
      that only two firms were qualified in the short-list (while the Bank's Guidelines requires short-list of 3-6
      firms).
-     Bank provided comment for revisions of the evaluation report on September 18, 2008.
3.    On December 8, 2008 IPA submitted the revised evaluation of EO1 and the RFP to the Bank.
-     The Bank advised IPA on December 19, 2009 to proceed, further reminding IPA that this assignment
      was subject to the Bank's post review.
4.    RFPs were issued to three short-listed firms with the proposal submission date of January 28, 2009.
      On January 13, 2009, short-listed firms requested clarification on the TOR (which needed input from
      LMAP) and thus IPA issued the amendment to extend submission date to February 25, 2009.
5.    Extended proposal submission date again to March 13, 2009, pending response to the Queries on the
                                                                               -    .
      TOR.
-     Clarification sent to short-listed firms on February 27, 2009.
6.    March 5, 2009, IPA discovered that there was a mistake in inviting short-listed firms and asked the
      Bank for permission to re-launch the RFP to the short-listed fir
-     The Bank agreed and IPA re-issued the RFP to three short-listed firms on March 27, 2009 with the
      deadline for submission of txoposals on Mav 19. 2009.
                                                    ,   I




7.    Clarification sought from two f/rms and proposals submission date was extended to June 6, 2009
8.    May 29, 2009 IPA sought Bank no objection to arrange Pre-proposal Conference and extend the
                                                                         .   .
      proposal submission date to July 21,2009. The Bank agreed.
9.    On July 21, 2009, IPA informed all short-listed firms that the submission of DroDosals was on hold
                                                                                         .   I


      until the minutes of pre-proposal meeting were agreed.
-     Draft Minutes of pre-proposal meeting were submitted to LMAP Procurement Review Committee for
      approval before distribution to short-li&ed fir
10.    IPA was waiting for formal confirmation to proceed further.




                                                        94
                                                                                  Management Response



                                        ANNEX88
                                   PROCUREMENTPROCESS:
                                  LEGAL        PROGRAM
                                      ASSISTANCE
                             Assignment- Legal Assistance Consultants
                        In Cadastral Commission Cases in 5 LMAP provinces
                              Procurement Process carried out by LMAP
                                     Year 2005 (before suspension)
1. April 12, 2005 - LMAP submitted draft TOR, REO1 and RFP to the Bank for review and comment.
- April 19,2005 -The Bank provided comment to the REO1 and the TOR.
2. June 7,2005 - LMAP re- submitted the revised TOR, REO1 and RFP to the Bank and requested the
   Bank's no objection letter to proceed with REOI. The estimated cost of each contract (each province)
   was US$25,000 and the selection method was based on consultant's qualification (CQS).
- June 19,2005 -The Bank provided no objection to the TOR, commented on the REO1 and informed
   LMAP that these contracts were not subiect to the Bank's Drior review and asked LMAP to Droceed
   further in accordance with paragraph 4 i f Appendix 1 to the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. '
3. November 3, 2005 - LMAP submitted Evaluation Report of EO1 to the Bank for no objection letter.
   The assignment was advertised in one Khmer language national newspaper on June-24 and 26,2005
   and in an English newspaper on June 24 and 27,2005 with the deadline for submission of EO1 on
   July 26, 2005.
- November 11, 2005 -The Bank informed LMAP again that these contracts were not subject to the
   Bank's prior review. Nevertheless, if the proposed price (of any contract) was unexpectedly higher
   than $100,000, then the Bank would prior review the evaluation report of such contract.
The procurement file ended at this stage.




                                                  95
Cambodia




                               Assignment- Legal Assistance Consultants
                 Procurement Process carried out by Independent Procurement Agent
1.   February 28, 2008 - IPA submitted updated TOR and REO1 for the Bank's review.
-    March 4, 2008 -the Bank provided no objection letter and REOI. EO1 submission date was March 28,
     2008.
2.   June 16, 2008 - IPA submitted evaluation report of EOls and draft RFP for review and no objection
     letter.
-    Bank provided comments on July 31, August 6 and 14 and September 18, 2008. IPA re-submitted the
     revised evaluation of EO1 on December 10,2008 and revised RFP on December 22,2008.
-    Bank provided initial comments on December 24, 2008 to the short-listed consultants and the RFP,
     and at the same date requested internal review by Bank Country Lawyer.
3.   On January 30, 2009 the Bank provided comments received from the Country Lawyer to IPA after
     which on February 6 and March 5, IPA and the Bank communicated on the best course of action Le.,
     to cancel the current process and start again as the current process was conflicting with the PAD
     which stated that only NGOs would be hired to provide legal assistance.
-    The Bank aareed with cancellation of the recruitment Drocess on March 10, 2009 and IPA issued
     notice to thefirms who submitted EO1 on the cancellaiion of process.
4.   On March 20, 2009 the IPA informed LMAP of the Bank's decision to cancel the current selection
     process, revise the TOR and re-invite the REO1 and asked LMA to review the amended TOR. IPA
     sent a reminder to LMAP again on April 21, 2009.
5.   On August 11, 2009, IPA informed the Bank that the updated TOR including all modifications agreed
     with the Bank had been sent to LMAP ( as of March 20) However, LMAP sent such TOR to the NCC
     Secretariat (NCCS), MLMUPC.
-    NCCS was in disagreement with certain essential modifications proposed in the TOR for this
     assignment such as insisting on selection of "Local NGOs or Local Law Firms." This disagreement on
     the TOR by the NCCS was also a final position of LMAP.
6.   In the absent of consent to the final TOR, the IPA could not proceed further and reported as such to
     MEF.




                                                   96
                                                                                       Management Response



                                      ANNEX9:
                          GUIDE KEYLEGAL
                               TO       TERMS INSTRUMENTS
                                              AND

Law: An act of Parliament, signed by the King.

Sub-Decree: A regulation issued by the Government, signed by the Prime Minister, often providing
      details on the implementation of provisions within a Law.

Royal Decree: A decision of the King, issued in accordance with a proposition from the Government.
       Used to promulgate laws, appoint high level officials and sometimes with more general effect.

Prakas: A regulation issued by a minister; sub-ordinate to a sub-decree.

Land Law: The Land Law of the Kingdom of Cambodia, passed by the National Assembly on July 20,
      2001, adopted by the Senate on August 13, 2001, signed by the King and effective as of August
      30.2001.

State Land: The State owns all land in Cambodia that: (a) falls into certain categories enumerated in
       Article 58 of the Constitution such as mountains, coastline rivers, canals, streams, lakes, forests;
       (b) is escheat (i.e., forfeited or abandoned) or given to the State; and (c) has not been subject to
       proper private appropriation or is not being privately occupied in accordance with Chapter 4 of the
       Land Law (see Possessory Rights below). State Land is of two types: State Public Land and
       State Private Land.

State Public Land: State land that has public interest uses, such as:

            Any property that has a natural origin, such as forests, courses of navigable or floatable
            water, natural lakes, banks of navigable and floatable rivers and seashores:

            Any property that is specially developed for general use, such as quays of harbors, railways,
            railway stations and airports;

            Any property that is made available, either in its natural state or after development, for public
            use, such as roads, tracks, oxcart ways, pathways, gardens and public parks, and reserved
            land;

            Any property that is allocated to render a public service, such as public schools or
            educational institutions, administrative buildings and all public hospitals;

            Any property that constitutes a natural reserve protected by the law;

            Archeological, cultural and historical patrimonies;

            Immovable properties being royal properties that are not the private properties of the royal
            family. The reigning King manages royal immovable properties. (LL Art. 15)

        State Public Land cannot be sold or otherwise alienated, although it can be subject to an
        authorization to use for temporary purposes. (LL Art. 16)

        People cannot acquire ownership of State Public Land through prescription (adverse possession)
        or through the special acquisition provisions of Chapter 4 of the Land Law 9 - Le., through the
        conversion of Possessory Rights into ownership (see Possessory Rights). (LL Art. 16)




                                                    97
Cambodia


State Private Land: All State land that is not State Public Land. State Private Land may be subject to
       sale, exchange, distribution or transfer of rights. It may be leased out or the subject of a
       concession for economic or social purposes. (LL Art. 17 and Chap. 4).

Possessory rights: A person occupying land may claim a possessory right over that land leading to
      ownership (extraordinary acquisitive possession) in the following circumstances:

        .   The person possessed the property prior to August 30, 2001 (LL Art. 30) and the possession
            of property was unambiguous, non-violent, notorious to the public, continuous and in good
            faith. (LL Arts. 32, 38)

        .   The person acquired or inherited the property in good faith from someone who was a
            legitimate possessor as set out in (a) above. (LL Arts. 39, 71)

        .   The land in question must be able to be lawfully possessed - most importantly, it cannot be
            State Public Land (LL Arts. 16, 43). By contrast, land which would otherwise be State Private
            Land on which people had settled prior to August 30, 2001 can and often is the subject of
            legitimate claims to possessory rights.

        A large majority of the parcels being titled under LMAP are properties to which people have rights
        through possession. That is, their right to title is based on showing that they have occupied the
        parcel in compliance with the above criteria, rather than on a pre-existing recognition of formal
        ownership.

Notorious possession: Possession that is conspicuous, capable of being observed by others, not
       hidden or secret. Notorious possession is one of the criteria that must be met in order for an
       occupant of land to assert a possessory right leading to ownership.

Conversion of State Public Land to State Private Land: If State Public Land is considered to have lost
      its public interest use, it can be converted to State Private Land. According to the Land Law (Art.
      16) such conversion requires the passage of a Law - a Sub-Decree or Prakas not being
      sufficient for this purpose.

Systematic titling: The process of determining rights to land, and issuing and registering title to all
      parcels within a declared adjudication area, in accordance with Chapter VI of the Land Law and
      Sub-decree No.46 of 2002 on Procedures of Establishing Cadastral Index Map and Land
      Register. An Administrative Commission is formed for each adjudication area, and has the
      responsibility for overseeing the process of systematic titling, including: (a) arranging the public   .
      display of the cadastral index map and the list of owners; (b) receiving all complaints,
      investigating and resolving in accordance with the agreement; (c) making a conclusion on the
      adjudication record; and (d) making a proposal for providing the right to land to the occupants, or
      owners, or for keeping the land as State property. The adjudication record is finalized upon
      signature by the Provincial/Municipal Governor and the Minister of LMUPC. If it is not possible to
      determine ownership to a parcel because ownership is disputed, the dispute is referred to the
      Cadastral Commission for resolution before title is issued and registered.

Sporadic titling: The process of determining rights to land and issuing and registering title to parcels
      upon the request of the person claiming ownership to the land, under Sub Decree on Sporadic
       Land Registration [No. 48 ANK May 31, 20021. As contrasted to systematic titling which is
      designed to cover all land within a given adjudication area, sporadic titling is an "on demand"
      process that is not restricted to an adjudication area.

Adjudication area: An area declared by a Provincial/Municipal Governor for systematic titling under Sub-
       Decree No. 46 of 2002.




                                                   98
                                                                                      Management Response


Cadastral index map: A map of adjudication areas produced as a result of the systematic titling process,
       including the boundaries of all public and private properties demarcated and the classification of
       the land, such as cultivation land, forest land, submerged land, lands for industrial construction,
       etc.

Economic land concessions: Concessions of State Private Land issued for economic purposes, in
      accordance with the Sub-Decree on Economic Land Concessions, No. 146 ANWBK, 2005.

Social land concessions: A legal mechanism to transfer State Private Land for social purposes to the
        poor who lack land for residential and/or family farming purposes, in accordance with the Sub-
        Decree on Social Land Concessions, No. 19 ANWBK, 2003. SLCs are issued over vacant State
        Private Land (Le., it is not intended as a mechanism for regularizing illegal occupation of State
        land) for an initial period of 5 years, after which (if certain conditions have been met) the
        concession may be converted into ownership.

Indigenous lands: According to the Land Law, Chapter 3, Part 2, an indigenous community is "a group
       of people. ..whose members manifest ethnic, social, cultural and economic unity and who practice
       a traditional lifestyle, and who cultivate the lands in their possession according to customary rules
       of collective use." The lands of indigenous communities are "those lands where the said
       communities have established their residences and where they carry out traditional agriculture."
       This includes land reserved for shifting cultivation. Ownership of indigenous lands is collective
       ownership, which includes all the rights and protections of private ownership except the right to
       dispose of any State public property that is included within the indigenous lands. Procedures for
       the registration of indigenous lands have recently been adopted in Sub-Decree [No 83 ANK, BK;
       June 09, 20091. LMAP has not engaged in the registration of indigenous lands.




                                                    99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 37286

                                                                                104                                                                                                     106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LAO P.D.R.                                                                      CAMBODIA
                                               To Bangkok                                THAILAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LAND MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                                        OTDAR MEANCHEY
                                               Bantea
                                               Chhmar
                                                               Samrong
                                                                                                                                                                               To Pax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Project Area

14
                                                                                                                                   PREAH                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WORLD BANK FINANCED PROJECT PROVINCES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RATANAKIRI
                                                                                                                                  VIHEAR
      To Bangkok
                                BANTEAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To Qui Nhg'n                  CIDA FINANCED PROJECT PROVINCES
                                                                                                                Phnom Thbeng
                   Poipet     MEANCHEY                                                                            Meanchey
                                                                                                                                                                        STUNG                    TRENG
                                                                         SIEM REAP                                                                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES
                            Sisophon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lomphat
                                                                             Ankor                                                                                                        Stung Treng                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                             Siem Reap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RUINS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                  Battambang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                             BATTAMBANG




                                                                                                                                                                                  g
                                                                             Tonle




                                                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                           KOMPONG




                                                                                                                                                                               Mek o
                                                                              Sap                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIVERS
                                                                                                                                  THOM                                                           KRATIE                       MONDULKIRI                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                          Kompong Thom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                    Pursat                                                                                                                  Kratie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Senmonorom                                     0             25             50 Kilometers

                                                        PURSAT
                                                                                                                 on


                                                                                                                T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                       25                        50 Miles
                                                                                                                      le
                                                                                                   K.Chhnang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank



                                                                                                                           Sa p
                                                                                            KOMPONG                                KOMPONG                   Kompong                                                                                To Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
12
                                                                                             CHHNANG                                                         Cham                                                                                                         12
                                                                                                                                       CHAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To Ho Chi Minh City
                                       Krong Koh
                                       Kong                                                    For detail, see maps
                                                                                                    3728837290
                                                                                                                                                   PREY        VENG                                                                                                             MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                   PHNOM PENH
                                                    KOH      KONG                        KOMPONG               PHNOM PENH                                  Prey Veng                                                     VIETNAM                                                                          LAO
                                                                                            SPEU       Kompong       Takhmau                                                                                                                                                                             P.D.R.
                                                                                                       Speu
                                                                                                                                                                       SVAY
                                                                                                                                   KANDAL
                                                                                                                                                                       RIENG
                                                                                                                                        Bassac

                                                                                                                                                 Meko ng




                                                                                                                                                                          Svay Rieng                                                                                                       THAILAND
                                                                                                                           Takeo                                                                        To Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VIETNAM
            Gulf                                                                                                      TAKEO
             of                                                                          KAMPOT                                                                                                                                                                                                             CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phnom
          Thailand                           Sihanoukville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Penh                                       SOUTH
                                                                                          Kampot                                                                               To Ho Chi Minh City
                                               SIHANOUKVILLE                                                                       To Ho Chi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gulf                                                          CHINA
                                                                                                                                   Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                          SEA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Thailand
                                                                             104
                                                                                                               To Ho Chi Minh City                                                   106

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OCTOBER 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 37290
                                            CHINA
                                                                                            TONLE
                                                                                                                                                                                      CAMBODIA
                                                                                                    SAP

                                                                                                                                                       LAND MANAGEMENT AND




                                                                                                               MEKO
MYANMAR




                                                                                                                NG
                        LAO                                                              Ruessei Kaev
                       P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                       ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                                                                  Tuol Kouk
                                                                                         7 Makkara
                                                                                                     Doun
                                                                                                     Penh              MEK
                                                                                                                                                                           Referenced Villages
                                                                                                                           ONG
               THAILAND                                                                           Chamkar
                                                                            Dang Ko
                                                                                         Mean Chey Mon                                                 REFERENCED VILLAGES:                                             DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
                                                VIETNAM           KANDAL
                                                                 PROVINCE                     Area of Main Map                                          ADJUDICATED
                             CAMBODIA                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMUNE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                 TONLE
                             Phnom                                            PHNOM PENH                                                                NON-ADJUDICATED




                                                                                                                      BASS
                               Penh                     SOUTH                  PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                        C  A
               Gulf                                     CHINA                                                                                          BOEUNG KOK LAKE
                  of                                     SEA                                                    KANDAL                                 DEVELOPMENT AREA BOUNDARY                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARY
                                                                                                               PROVINCE
                  Thailand
                                                                                      0 1 2 3 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                       SAND FILL                                                        ROADS

                                                Ruessei Kaev
                                                                                                                                                                         For detail, see IBRD 37289
                                                                        Ruessei Kaev
        Phnom Penh Thmei                                                    Tuol Sangkae
                                                                                                                                                                                   Ruessei Kaev
                                                                                  Boeung Kok Lake                                                                                                      Chrouy
                                                                                  Development Area




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PHNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Changva
                                                                                     (~133 ha.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K A N DA
                                                      Boeung Kok Muoy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M PENH P
                                                       (Boeung Kok 1)

                                                                                                    Boeung Kok                                 Sras Chok




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                           Doun




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEKONG
                                               Tuol Kouk                                               Lake
                                                                                                     (~90 ha.)                                             Penh




                                                                                                                                                                                            TON
                        Boeung Kok Pir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                                                              LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SAP
                        (Boeung Kok 2)                                                                                                                     Voat Phnum


                                                                                                                                                       Phsar Thmei Phsar Chas
                                                                                                                                                          Muoy                           Phsar
                                                                 Phsar Depou Muoy
                                                                                                            MittakpheapMonourom Phsar                                                   Kandal
                                  Tuek L'ak Muoy                                                                                  Thmei                                      Phsar       Muoy
                                                                                                                                   Pir                                      Kandal
                                                                                                                            Ou                                   Phsar        Pir
                                                                   Phsar Depou Pir                                     Ou Ruessei                                Thmei
                                                                                              7           Makkara Ruessei Bei                                     Bei
                                                                                                                  Ou Pir Ou
                                        Tuek L'ak Pir                                                           Ruessei Ruessei                                                        Chey Chumneah
                                                                       Phsar Depou Bei                           Buon Muoy
      Tuek Thla
                                                                                                                                                           Boeng Reang
                                                                                                          Veal Vong
                                      Tuek L'ak Bei                                                                                   Boeng Prolit                                Chakto Mukh
                                                                        Phsar Daeum Kor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ONG
                                                                                  Tuol Svay                      Oulampik
                                                                                   Prey Pir                                               Boeng Keng
                                               Boeng Salang                                                                                Kang Pir
                                                                                                                                                                                          Dey Krahom
                                                                                                                                                                  Boeng Keng                                        Group
                                                                                                                                                                  Kang Muoy                                          78
                                                                                          Tuol Svay Prey Muoy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AC




                                                                                                                                    Boeng Keng Kang Be           Chamkar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                             LE B




                                                                        Tumnob Tuek
                                                                                                                                                                   Mon
                                                                                                                                                                                                          TON




                                                                                                                                                                                    Tonle Basak                              Mean Chey
                                                                                                           Tuol Tumpung
                                                                                                                 Pir
                                                                               Boeng                                                Tuol Tumpung        Boeng                                                   Chbar                  Nirouth
                                                                              Tumpun                                                    Muoy           Trabaek                                                  Ampov
                              Stueng                                                                                                                                                                              Pir
                             Mean Chey                     Mean Chey
0                                          1                                 2                                                 3 Kilometers


    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                             Phsar Daeum Thkov
    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                Chbar Ampov
    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                      Chak Angrae Leu                  Muoy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOVEMBER 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 37289
                                                                CHINA
                                                                                                                 TONLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                         SAP

                                                                                                                                                                          LAND MANAGEMENT AND




                                                                                                                                    MEKO
                MYANMAR




                                                                                                                                     NG
                                                 LAO                                                        Ruessei Kaev
                                                P.D.R.
                                                                                                                    Area of Main Map                                      ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                                                                                     Tuol Kouk
                                                                                                         7 Makkara
                                                                                                                                  Doun
                                                                                                                                  Penh      MEK
                                                                                                                                                                                       Sras Chok Commune
                                                                                                                                                ONG
                                        THAILAND                                                                               Chamkar
                                                                                               Dang Ko                           Mon
                                                                   VIETNAM           KANDAL
                                                                                                                                                                           REFERENCED VILLAGES                                         DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                    PROVINCE                                      Mean Chey
                                                      CAMBODIA                                                                                                             SRAS CHOK COMMUNE                                           COMMUNE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                      TONLE
                                                      Phnom                                     PHNOM PENH




                                                                                                                                           BASS
                                                        Penh              SOUTH                  PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                                           BOEUNG KOK LAKE                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                             C  A
                                                                          CHINA
                                        Gulf                                                                                                                               DEVELOPMENT AREA BOUNDARY
                                           of                              SEA                                                       KANDAL                                                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARY (inset)
                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE                               SAND FILL
                                           Thailand
                                                                                                         0 1 2 3 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROADS


                                0                                                                            1                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                      .1        .2                  .5                                                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                               KILOMETERS



                                                                        Tuol Sangkae                                             Ruessei Kaev


                                           Boeung Kok Lake                                                                                                                                                                                    Chrouy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Changva
                                           Development Area
                                              (~133 ha.)
                                Tuol
                                Kouk                                                                                                                                                                 TON
                                                                                                                                                                                                        LE
           Boeung Kok
              Muoy                                                                                                                                            Sras Chok
         (Boeung Kok 1)                                                                                                                                                                                       SAP
                                                                        Boeung Kok
                                                                           Lake
                                                                         (~90 ha.)                                                                                    Doun
                                                                                                                                                                      Penh
Boeung Kok Pir (Boeung Kok 2)




                                                                                 June
                                                                                 2009
                                                                                           March
                                                                                           2009
                                                                                                                                                                                               Voat Phnum
                                                                                                    Nov.
                                                                                                    2008 Sep.
                                                                                                         2008


                                                                                                                                                                                       Phsar Thmei                      Phsar Chas
                                                                                                                                                                                          Muoy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kandal
           Phsar Depou Muoy                                                             Mittakpheap                                                                                                                                                       Muoy
                                                                                                                                                      Monourom            Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                          Thmei
                                                                                                                                                                           Pir                                                  Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kandal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pir


                                Phsar Depou Pir
                                                                                        7 Makkara                                                             Ou
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Thmei
                                                                                                                                                            Ruessei                                   Bei
                                                                        Veal Vong                                                     Ou                       Bei
                                                                                                                                    Ruessei                                 Boeng Reang                                                          Chey Chumneah
                                 Phsar Depou Bei                                                             Ou Ruessei               Pir   Ou Ruessei
                                                                                                               Buon                           Muoy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OCTOBER 2009
