                                                                                           50844

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                    1818 H Street, N.W.      Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                        Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                        U.S.A.                   Email: ipanel@,worldbank.org



     Werner Kiene
     Chairperson

                                                                           IPN REQUEST RQ 09/08

                                                                           September 24,2009


           MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES
               OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                             Re: Request for Inspection
           CAMBODIA: Land Management and Administration Project (LMAP)
                               (IDA 3605-KH)



             Please be advised that on September 4, 2009, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received
     a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-mentioned Project. The Panel
     registered the Request for Inspection in the Panel's Register on September 24, 2009, as provided
     in paragraph 17 o f the Panel's Operating Procedures. It also delivered a copy o f the Request to
     the President of IDA pursuant to paragraph 17 o f the Resolution that established the Panel.
     Enclosed for your information are:

            (1) A copy o f the Notice o f Registration; and
            (2) A copy o f the transmittal Memorandum to the President.



     Enclosures
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                       1818 H Street,N.W        Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                           U.S.A.                   Email: ipanel@worldbank.org




                                                                         IPN REQUEST RQ 09/08

                                                                         September 24,2009




                                NOTICE OF REGISTRATION

                                   Re: Request for Inspection

                CAMBODIA: Land Management and Administration Project (LMAP)
                                (IDA Credit No. 3605-KH)

              O n September 4, 2009, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
     Inspection (the "Request") related to the Cambodia: Land Management and
     Administration Project (LMAP) (the "Project"). The Requesters state that members o f one
     o f the communities affected by the Project have suffered serious harm from the design and
     implementation o f the Project and claim that the issues o f the affected community need to
     be urgently addressed because further, severe harm may be caused by the Project in the
     very near future. The Requesters have asked the Panel to keep confidential their names, the
     names o f the people they represent, and the name o f the community.

     The Proiect

                According to the Development Credit Agreement, the Project is aimed at assisting
     the Borrower in its efforts to implement a "program o actions, objectives andpolicies
                                                               f
     designed to improve land tenure security and promote the development o efficient land
                                                                                  f
     markets."' In this regard, the Project objectives include: "(i) the development o adequate
                                                                                      f
     national policies, a regulatory framework and institutions for land administration; (ii) the
     issuance and registration o titles in rural and urban areas in the Project Provinces; and
                                  f
     (iii) the establishment o an efficient and transparent land administration system."
                              f

            These objectives are to be achieved through five components: development o f land
     policy and regulatory framework (part A o f the Project); institutional. development (part
     B); land titling program and development o f land registration system (part C);

     ~     ~~




      Development Credit Agreement (DCA) (Land Management and Administration Project) between Kingdom
     o f Cambodia and International Development Association, Dated March 27,2002.
      DCA, Schedule 2 (Description o f the Project).
strengthening mechanisms for dispute resolution (part D) and land management (part E).
The land titling program under part C o f the Project will cover both urban and rural areas
in ten provinces and in the municipality o f Phnom Penh. The Project i s partially financed
by an IDA Credit in an amount o f nineteen million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,300,000), about US$23.4 million equivalent.

The Reauest

          Land Titles and Evictions The Requesters represent a community within a
 `commune' in Cambodia. According to the Request, following public notice that the
commune area would become an adjudication zone for purposes o f land registration under
the LMAP, residents o f the community that the Requesters represent requested that their
land claims be investigated, as the legal procedure developed under the LMAP and
adopted by the Government provides. It i s claimed that people were, however, denied their
requests for land claims investigations on the ground that these lands were within a
development zone.The Request adds that in 2007, on the same month when the
adjudication record was posted in the commune, a lease agreement was signed between the
municipality to which the commune belongs and a private developer, affecting many
families in the area. According to the Request, Bank staff claimed that a number o f titles in
the adjudication area (the commune) were issued to residents and that "it can be assumed
that most f n o t all [the plots titled] fall outside the development zone." [Text in brackets in
original] Local authorities later announced that the land o f the community that i s subject o f
the Request had been demarcated as a development zone.

         The Requesters state that in 2008, when the developer began i t s works, residents
o f the community started facing pressure and intimidation to leave the area and, a year
later, many families received formal eviction notices giving them a one-week deadline to
accept one o f three compensation options. These options were: cash compensation,
relocation in a site many kilometers away, and, finally, onsite housing coupled with
temporary relocation while waiting for the construction o f the houses to be completed in
about four years.

        According to the Requesters, residents o f the community "regard themselves as
owners o the land" and have documents that recognize their ownership under customary
         f
tenure. The Requesters argue that the Project, which aims at creating a centralized and
formal land registration process, has in fact weakened and degraded the land tenure o f the
customary land owners because the Project "ailed to formalize their tenure `` and did not
"transfer their customary rights under formalized land titles."

        With respect to the above-noted lease agreement between the municipality and a
private developer, the Requesters state that "the adjudication process, at a minimum,
resulted in a de facto determination o the status o the land to be State-owned." In any
                                      f            f
event, the Requesters argue, whether the land is now State land or not, residents started to
be and continue to be evicted. The Requesters state that the possibility o f evictions was
envisaged in the IDA'SDevelopment Credit Agreement, which, in this regard, required the
application o f the Bank's environmental and social policies, including a Resettlement
Policy Framework. The Requesters contend, however, that in the case o f the community
they represent the framework was not applied.



                                                                                                    2
       The Requesters also claim that they brought these issues related to the adjudication
process to the attention o f Bank staff during a supervision mission to the area in 2008, but
no remedial actions were taken following this visit.

        Public Awareness According to the Requesters, other sub-components o f the
Project have remained unimplemented. They refer to the Public Awareness Community
Participation (PACP) sub-component, according to which Project affected people were to
be informed and involved in the registration and adjudication process and NGOs were to
be contracted for the implementation o f the PACP. The Requesters claim that to date no
NGO was ever contracted for this purpose and many Cambodian people lack any
knowledge about their land rights and the registration system.

        Dispute Resolution Mechanism The Request also mentions the lack o f a
functioning dispute resolution mechanism that was envisaged under the Project. The
Cadastral Commission set up to resolve disputes in the area has not performed
satisfactorily and, according to the Requesters, poor communities are in a highly
disadvantaged position in the land dispute process. The Requesters note that this problem
had been recognized in the L M A P Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and, as a result,
legal aid was to be offered to poor communities. The Requesters claim that to date, seven
years into the Project implementation, no legal assistance has been provided under the
LMAP.

        Bank compliance According to the Requesters, the claims they describe in their
Request demonstrate the lack o f compliance by the World Bank with the policy on project
supervision and other policies. They add, nonetheless, that since February 2009, after they
again raised their complaints, the Bank undertook actions such as an Enhanced
Supervision Mission followed by a Safeguards Review Mission, during which the
Requesters "requested the urgent intervention o the World Bank Management in their
                                                 f
case." With subsequent letters to the Bank, the Requesters asked about the applicability o f
Bank's safeguards policies and requested again urgent actions due to further eviction
notices received by community residents.

        Urgency o f Request The Requesters state that they welcome the Bank's efforts
since February 2009 but note that "the harm caused by seven years o inadequate f
supervision o the project has in no way been mitigated by the Bank's recent efforts." They
              f
reiterate that hundreds o f families have already been evicted from their land and had to
accept "inadequate compensation under conditions o duress" because they lacked legal
                                                       f
assistance. The Requesters add that there i s no indication that those families that were
given eviction notices with a fast approaching deadline will be treated differently. They
also state that the community they represent i s not an isolated case and other communities
in Cambodia have suffered the same harm under the LMAP.

        The Requesters ask that the Panel conduct an investigation o f the matters described
in the Request for Inspection.

         The above claims may constitute, inter alia, non-compliance by the Bank with
various provisions o f the following operational Policies and Procedures:



                                                                                                3
OP/BP 4.12              Involuntary Resettlement
OP/BP 13.05             Project Supervision

          In accordance with paragraph 17 o f the Panel's Operating Procedures (the
"Operating Procedures"), Ia notifying you that I
                              m                         have, on September 24, 2009, which i s
also the date o f the dispatch o f this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel
Register. Please note that the Panel's registration i s an administrative procedure and it
implies no judgment whatsoever concerning the merits o f the Request for Inspection.

          The Panel has notified the Requesters that all communications in connection
with the Request will be sent to the address stated in the Request.

          As provided in paragraph 18 o f the IDA Resolution that established the Panel
(`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 o f the "Conclusions ofthe Board's Second Review o     f
the Inspection Panel" (the "1 999 Clarifications"), and paragraph 18(d) o f the Operating
Procedures, Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than October 26, 2009
with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant
policies and procedures in relation to the above-referenced Project. The subject matter that
Management must deal with in a response to the Request i s set out in paragraphs 3 and 4
of the 1999 Clarifications.

         After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and
shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should
be investigated."


The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ 09/08.


                                    Yours sincerely,




   Mr. Robert B. Zoellick
   President
   International Development Association

   The Executive Directors and Alternates
   International Development Association



                                                                                                  4
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                        1818 H Street,N.W.                            Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                             Washington, D.C. 20433       Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                                          Email: ipanel@worldbank.org


Werner Kiene
Chairperson


                                                                         IPN REQUEST RQ 09/08

                                                                                      September 24,2009


                        MEMORANDUM TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                             Request for Inspection
         CAMBODIA: Land Management and Administration Project (LMAP)
                             (IDA 3605-KH)




              In accordance with paragraph 17 o f IDA Resolution that established the Inspection
      Panel (the "Resolution") and paragraph 17 o f the Inspection Panel's Operating
      Procedures (the "Operating Procedures"), Ihereby notify you that on September 4, 2009,
      the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request")
      related to the above-referenced Project.

              Ihave on September 24,2009, which i s also the date o f the dispatch o f this notice,
      registered the Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Enclosed are:
              1. copy o f the Notice o f Registration; and
              2. copy o f the Request for Inspection

               In accordance with paragraph 18 o f the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 o f the
      "Conclusions o the Board`s Second Review o the Inspection Panel" (the "1999
                       f                                 f
      Clarifications"), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating Procedures, Bank Management i s
      hereby notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than October 26, 2009, with
      written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant
      policies and procedures in relation to the above-referenced Projects. The subject matter
      the Management must deal with in a response to the Request i s set out in paragraphs 3
      and 4 o f the 1999 Clarifications.
                                           2




        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be
investigated."

       The Request has been assigned I P N Request Number R Q 09/08.


                                       Sincerely,




                                     Werner Kiene
                                     Chairperson




Enclosures:

 Request for Inspection
 Notice o f Registration
