                                                  59190


   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
            International Development Association




 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                IN RESPONSE TO THE

   INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                      CAMBODIA

LAND MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
           (IDA CREDIT No. 3605-KH)




                     January 21, 2011
               MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                          IN RESPONSE TO THE
           INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 58016-KH

                              CAMBODIA
             LAND MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                        (IDA CREDIT No. 3605-KH)



Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD Resolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by Executive Directors is
Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the
Investigation Report No. 58016-KH, dated November 23, 2010, of the Inspection Panel on the
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project (IDA Credit No. 3605-KH).
                     MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                                IN RESPONSE TO THE
                 INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT No. 58016-KH

                                     CAMBODIA
                    LAND MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                               (IDA CREDIT No. 3605-KH)


                                                                CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................. ii
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................... iii
I.        Introduction ............................................................................................................. 1
II.       The Project .............................................................................................................. 2
III.      Summary of Management's 2009 Response........................................................... 4
IV.       Findings of the Panel .............................................................................................. 9
V.        Special Issues ........................................................................................................ 10
VI.       Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 19
VII.      Management's Action Plan in Response to the Findings ..................................... 21
VIII.     Conclusion ............................................................................................................ 23


Annexes
Annex 1.        Findings and Comments
Annex 2.        Status of Management's Action Plan of November 2009
Annex 3.        Project Milestones and Key Results
Annex 4.        Detailed Timeline on the BKL Evictions and the Bank's Response
Annex 5.        Donor Statement and NGO Response
Annex 6.        Guide to Key Legal Terms and Instruments
Annex 7.        Summary of Research on Disputes and Evictions in LMAP Titling Areas


Maps
Map 1.          IBRD 38256: Cambodia ­ LMAP, Project Area and Land Titling Activities
Map 2.          IBRD 38266: Cambodia ­ LMAP, Referenced Villages
Map 3.          IBRD 37289: Cambodia ­ LMAP, Sras Chok Commune
Map 4.          IBRD 38298: Cambodia ­ LMAP, Estimated Size and Location of Ongoing Land
                Disputes (December 2010)




                                                                       i
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BABSEA   Bridges Across Borders South East Asia
BKL      Boeung Kak Lake
BP       Bank Policy
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CLEC     Community Legal Education Center
CLP      Council for Land Policy
COHRE    Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DFGG     Demand for Good Governance
DPM      Deputy Prime Minister
EMF      Environmental Management Framework
ERM      Enhanced Review Mission
ESG      Environmental and Social Guidelines
FY       Fiscal Year
GTZ      Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit
Ha       Hectare
IDA      International Development Association
INT      Department of Institutional Integrity
IPPF     Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
JRSC     Jesuit Refugee Service ­ Cambodia
JSDF     Japan Social Development Fund
LAMDP    Land Administration, Management and Distribution Program
LASED    Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development
LMAP     Land Management and Administration Project
LRT      Land Registration Team
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance
MLMUPC   Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction
MPP      Municipality of Phnom Penh
MR       Management Response
MTR      Mid-term Review
NCC      National Cadastral Commission
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OD       Operational Directive
OP       Operational Policy
ORAF     Operational Risk Assessment Framework
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMO      Project Management Office
PRGO     Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RVP      Regional Vice President
SDR      Special Drawing Right
SLC      Social Land Concession
TOR      Terms of Reference
TWG-L    Technical Working Group on Land
UN       United Nations
UNCHS    United Nations Human Settlements Programme/Centre for Human
         Settlements (UN HABITAT)
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
US$      United States Dollars



                                  ii
                                         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Land Sector: Challenges and Opportunities for Cambodia's Development

At the turn of the century, after 25 years of conflict, the land sector in Cambodia was considered
one of the most challenging in the world: most land records had been destroyed; land disputes
were numerous and there was little administrative capacity to rebuild the sector. The Bank
recognized that securing land rights was a critical step to sustainable poverty reduction despite
the challenges it entailed and, with other Development Partners, assisted the Government to
develop a program to address land and resources tenure insecurity.1

In 2002, the Bank approved an IDA Credit of US$24.3 million equivalent to support the Land
Management and Administration Project (LMAP) in Cambodia. LMAP was envisioned as the
first phase of a 15-year program, with the objectives of improving land tenure security and
promoting the development of efficient land markets. These objectives were to be achieved
through: (a) the development of national policies, a regulatory framework and institutions for
land administration; (b) the issuance and regulation of titles in rural and urban areas; and (c) the
establishment of an efficient and transparent land administration system.

LMAP delivered a number of significant development benefits. More than 1.58 million land
parcels were surveyed and 1.24 million titles distributed to beneficiaries, laying the foundations
for improved access to credit while enabling increased collection of revenue from land taxes and
transaction fees. LMAP also helped put in place key elements of the national policy and
regulatory framework such as policies on social land concessions, economic land concessions
and Indigenous People's land.

LMAP implementation also confronted significant challenges, primarily fiduciary and safeguards
related. A Fiduciary Review uncovered fraud and corruption in seven Bank-financed projects,
including LMAP. As a result, disbursements of the Credit were suspended from June 2006 to
February 2007 and Management's attention became focused on fiduciary issues. From early
2009, Management realized that there was an apparent acceleration of evictions in Phnom Penh,
and thus potential harm to Project-affected persons. On January 24, 2009, more than 100
families were evicted from the Dey Krahorm area in central Phnom Penh. While this was not an
LMAP area, the Bank called on the Government in meetings, via letters and through statements
to put a moratorium on evictions until it finalized its national legal and policy framework for
resettlement and improved dispute resolution. Notably, on July 16, 2009, the Bank issued a joint
statement with Development Partners calling for a halt to evictions of Cambodia's urban poor.

Other actions were pursued by Management, including meetings with representatives of the
communities and NGOs to hear concerns, active dialogue with authorities, and offers to help the
Government finalize its policy and legal framework for resettlement, and to upgrade resettlement
sites.

1
    World Bank support included analytical work, a development policy operation (land and natural resources
    management was one of the three main policy reform focus areas under the Poverty Reduction and Growth) and
    investment operations, i.e., LMAP (which also received funds from the Governments of Canada, Germany and
    Finland) and, later, the Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development (LASED) Project and the
    Demand for Good Governance (DFGG) Project (with Land Law dissemination activities).

                                                     iii
Executive Summary


On August 28, 2009, Management requested that the Government and the Bank should mutually
suspend Project implementation to allow time to reach consensus on how best to address
safeguards concerns. Instead, the Government requested the cancellation of the Credit on
September 7, 2009. On September 4, 2009, the Inspection Panel received the Request for
Inspection, which it registered on September 24, 2009.

The Boeung Kak Lake (BKL) Event and Management's 2009 Response

The Request for Inspection focused on events surrounding the denial of BKL residents' land
claims and their forced resettlement from the BKL area located in central Phnom Penh. BKL is
part of Sras Chok Commune, one of 232 communes in which LMAP engaged in systematic
titling activities (so-called Adjudication Areas). Of the approximately 20,000 inhabitants who
lived there, it is estimated that more than one half have been forced to move since August 2009.
The Request for Inspection asserted that evictions from the BKL area were being carried out in
violation of the agreed Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) established under LMAP, and
applicable to the eviction of people from State land in Project titling areas.

In its response on November 2, 2009 (the 2009 Response), Management concurred with the
Requesters that the Government is obligated under the LMAP Credit Agreement to apply the
RPF to displacements or threatened displacements from the BKL area. The 2009 Response
observed that two series of events occurred concurrently. One arm of Government, the Project
implementing agency, engaged in titling in the Sras Chok area from May 2006 to February 2007
(overlapping significantly with the 8-month Credit suspension), but proper procedures were not
followed and residents in the villages immediately surrounding BKL were not given sufficient
opportunity to present and defend their land claims. In parallel, from 2005 onwards, other parts
of Government were pursuing private development of the BKL area, and the Municipality of
Phnom Penh signed a 99-year lease for the BKL area with a private developer (Shukaku, Inc.) in
February 2007.

Despite extensive discussions both before and after the Request registration, the Government did
not agree with Management that the Project's RPF applies to the evictions of BKL residents.
The 2009 Response acknowledged that Management itself did not see clearly the potential
connection between specific land disputes and the Project's RPF until it reviewed the
conclusions of the Enhanced Review Mission2 it commissioned in the first half of 2009.
Furthermore, reflecting on the complexity of the issue, in-country representatives of the
Development Partners supporting LMAP have also expressed reservations about whether there is
a link between the Project and BKL events. Nevertheless, in Management's view the RPF is
sufficiently clear to conclude that it applies to the events that took place in the BKL area.
However, it further acknowledged that there were ambiguities in the RPF and a lack of clarity
and consistency in the Bank Team's understanding of its scope, and that these may have
contributed to the different view of the Government.

The 2009 Response also recognized that there were several specific shortcomings in Project
design and supervision. It reported on Management's engagement with Government on the issue
of forced evictions prior to the Request registration. The Action Plan included in the 2009

2
    Enhanced Review Mission (ERM), Report dated July 2009. The mission took place before BKL events.

                                                    iv
Executive Summary


Response focused on deepening the dialogue with Government on the need to develop concrete
actions for communities that were evicted and those that face involuntary resettlement.

Findings of the Panel and Management's Response

The Panel delivered its Investigation Report to the Board and to Management on November 23,
2010, in which it found non-compliance by the Bank with aspects of its policies on involuntary
resettlement and on project appraisal and supervision. There are numerous areas of convergence
between the 2009 Response and the Panel's Report. Among other points, the Panel reinforces
Management's conclusions that: (a) the residents in the BKL area were denied access to due
process of adjudication of their property claims, and were displaced in violation of the agreed
policies for involuntary resettlement; (b) there are several ambiguities concerning the triggering
and application of the RPF; (c) evictions are not limited to the BKL area or to LMAP
Adjudication Areas; and (d) Management did not adequately follow up Project commitments to
strengthen public awareness, community participation, dispute resolution mechanisms and State
land management.

Both the 2009 Response and the Panel's Report concluded that the Requesters suffered serious
harm or the threat of harm. The Panel and Management also agree that the benefits and
protections provided to BKL residents by LMAP fell short of expectations and that Management
was unable to prevent or mitigate the harm that occurred.

However, while concurring with the Panel regarding a number of significant Project
shortcomings, Management considers it essential to characterize these shortcomings properly in
terms of their relationship to the harm suffered by the residents of BKL. The cause of the harm
or risk of harm suffered by the Requesters is eviction or threatened eviction from the BKL area.
These evictions were carried out, and continue to be carried out, by the Municipality of Phnom
Penh and the BKL area developer (neither of which is the Project implementing agency), based
on the Government's assertion that the land in question is State land that has legitimately been
leased to the developer and that the Requesters do not have possession rights. LMAP was not
used by the Government as an instrument to assert or confirm ownership over the area. Instead,
the Government maintains that its actions were outside the scope of the Project.

Furthermore, as shown by recent research, evictions from State land have also occurred in recent
years in many other parts of Cambodia, to a similar extent within and outside Project provinces
and LMAP Adjudication Areas. As in the case of BKL, Management has found no basis for
concluding that evictions in other LMAP Adjudication Areas were facilitated by the presence of
the Project as compared to evictions happening elsewhere. While Management continues to
have grave concern for the BKL residents and the difficulties they face, in Management's view,
based on the Government's continuing actions at BKL and elsewhere, it is reasonable to
conclude that Bank failures neither created nor exacerbated a risk of eviction beyond the risk that
would have existed in the absence of the Project.

Going Forward

Very limited progress has been made over the course of the past year on the Action Plan
developed by Management in its 2009 Response. Some of the proposed actions have been


                                                v
Executive Summary


partially implemented. Other initiatives that Management has pursued to support affected
communities have not received the support of Government to date, including: (a) undertaking a
social impact assessment on the affected communities in the BKL area and in other Project
provinces; (b) preparing a mitigation plan for poor and vulnerable affected groups and
developing economic opportunities; (c) using other IDA credits to provide a set of protection
measures to the affected people in line with what they would have received under the RPF; and
(d) assisting Government efforts to evaluate options to mitigate adverse environmental impacts
from the filling of BKL.

The most serious obstacle to Action Plan implementation has been the continued disagreement
between Bank Management and the Government over the applicability of the Project's RPF to
the evictions at BKL. Despite Management's sustained effort to discuss and agree with
Government on this fundamental point, to date the Government has not recognized any link
between the Project and BKL events.

Management agrees with the Panel that engagement on land issues in Cambodia is highly
relevant to the country's development, and is consistent with the Government's long-term
development vision and the Bank's overall mandate of poverty reduction. However, while the
Panel states that it "hopes that this Investigation Report will contribute to the start of a new
engagement with the Government on the resolution of issues raised by the requesters," the
current state of the dialogue with the Government on these issues has diminished the Bank's
ability to facilitate solutions.

Given the current impasse, Management has limited options to mitigate the harm suffered by
people in LMAP Adjudication Areas. At the same time, Management continues to believe that
the priorities reflected in the Action Plan included in the 2009 Response remain valid. In view of
this and based on the history of the last 15 months, Management considers that the most
constructive way to support the affected residents of BKL is to move beyond further discussion
of well-entrenched views. This would allow building on what Management believes should be a
shared recognition with the Government and the Development Partners that the people in BKL
have significant grievances that need to be addressed. Towards this end, Management proposes
to pursue engagement at the highest level of Government with the objective of gaining support
from the Government and the Development Partners: (a) to support affected communities in the
BKL area in a manner that responds to their development and livelihood needs; and (b) to ensure
that any communities that may be resettled in the future benefit from a resettlement policy that
meets appropriate standards including recourse to fair and independent dispute resolution
mechanisms. Until these objectives are reached, the Bank reiterates its call to halt further
evictions, consistent with the Donor Statement and NGO Response of July 16, 2009.

Management proposes to report back to the Board on the implementation of the revised Action
Plan within 60 days of the Board Discussion of this Management Report and Recommendation
and prior to the presentation of an Interim Strategy Note (ISN) that will be prepared in lieu of a
full Country Assistance Strategy. If there is continued lack of willingness to cooperate on
addressing the BKL resettlement issue, Management would anticipate reviewing all current and
proposed support to the Government in the land sector and would carefully take into account the
Government's position in considering the magnitude and focus of future Bank support to
Cambodia.

                                                vi
                                    I.     INTRODUCTION

1.      On September 4, 2009, the Inspection Panel (hereafter referred as the Panel) received a
Request for Inspection, IPN Request RQ 09/08 (the Request), concerning the Cambodia Land
Management and Administration Project (the Project or LMAP) financed by the International
Development Association (the Bank). The Request was submitted by the Centre on Housing
Rights and Evictions (COHRE) on behalf of communities claiming to have been affected by the
Project (the Requesters).

2.     The Board of Executive Directors and the President of the Bank were notified by the
Panel of receipt of the Request on September 24, 2009. Management responded to the claims in
the Request on November 2, 2009 (the 2009 Response) and has continued to have constructive
exchanges with the Panel since then.

3.      Following a first mission to Cambodia from November 16-19, 2009, the Panel
determined in its Report and Recommendation dated December 2, 2009, that the Request
satisfied the eligibility criteria for an Inspection. The Panel recognized that Management was
trying to establish a dialogue with the Royal Government of Cambodia and the Development
Partners in order to address the concerns of the Requesters and had proposed an Action Plan. On
this basis, the Panel recommended that it would refrain from issuing a decision at that time on
whether an investigation was warranted in order to allow the dialogue to proceed. The Board of
Executive Directors approved the Panel's recommendation on December 16, 2009.

4.     In its Final Eligibility Report and Recommendation of March 31, 2010, the Panel noted
that no progress had been made in implementing the specific actions to ensure that the
communities that had been resettled from the Boeung Kak Lake (BKL) area would be supported
in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), and, after discussing the issue
with Management, recommended to the Board that it approve an Investigation of the claims and
matters raised in the Request. The Board approved this recommendation on April 13, 2010.

5.      A Panel team visited Cambodia from May 22-29, 2010 and on November 23, 2010 the
Panel issued its Investigation Report.

6.      This Management Report and Recommendation responds to the findings of the Panel's
Investigation Report. The Report is organized in eight sections. Following this Introduction,
Section II describes the Project. Section III briefly summarizes Management's 2009 Response to
the Request. Section IV summarizes the findings of the Panel. Section V discusses issues which
deserve special attention. Section VI presents some key lessons learned. Section VII lays out
Management's Action Plan in response to the Panel's findings. Section VIII contains the
conclusion. For ease of reference, the Panel's findings and Management's responses are
described in detail in matrix format in Annex 1.




                                              1
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


                                       II.     THE PROJECT

7.      In 2002, the Board approved a Credit in the amount of SDR19.3 million
(US$24.3 million equivalent) to support the LMAP, the first phase of the Government's long-
term plan to build a modern land management sector and implement its Land Administration,
Management and Distribution Program (LAMDP). Three Development Partners (Canada,
Finland and Germany) also provided co-financing or parallel financing to the Project. The goals
of the LAMDP were: (a) to strengthen land tenure security and land markets; (b) to manage land
and natural resources in an equitable, sustainable and efficient manner; and (c) to promote land
distribution with equity.

8.      Objectives. The Project's development objectives (PDOs) were to improve land tenure
security and to promote the development of efficient land markets, corresponding to goal (a) of
the LAMDP. The PDOs, which remained unchanged throughout the life of the Project, were to
be achieved through: (a) the development of adequate national policies, a regulatory framework,
and institutions for land administration; (b) the issuance and regulation of titles in rural and
urban areas; and (c) the establishment of an efficient and transparent land administration system.

9.    Description. The Project, initially designed to be implemented in eleven provinces and
municipalities (see Map 1), had five components:
   ·   Component 1: The development of land policy and a regulatory framework (total
       cost US$2.8 million, of which IDA US$1.8 million). The component was designed to
       support the formulation of policies for land administration, management and distribution
       through: (a) the development of the capacity of the secretariat of the Council for Land
       Policy (CLP) in policy analysis and development; (b) the formulation of key policies in
       the areas of land management, administration and distribution; (c) the drafting of sub-
       decrees for the implementation of the 2001 Land Law and other legal instruments needed
       to implement the Project; and (d) the dissemination of policies, laws and procedures.
   ·   Component 2: Institutional development (total cost US$6.4 million, of which IDA
       US$3.7 million). The component was designed to provide support to four main areas: (a)
       the long-term institutional development of the Ministry of Land Management, Urban
       Planning and Construction (MLMUPC); (b) project management to implement the
       Project; (c) the creation of a land management and administration education program in
       an established university; and (d) the development of the private surveying industry.
   ·   Component 3: A land titling program and the development of a land registration
       system (total cost US$20.4 million, of which IDA US$16.7 million). The component's
       purpose was to support the issuance of first-time land titles and the establishment of a
       land registration system to register land transactions, to include: (a) information
       dissemination and community organization; (b) a systematic land titling program; (c) a
       sporadic land titling program; and (d) the development of an efficient, transparent and
       effective land registration system.
   ·   Component 4: The strengthening of mechanisms for the resolution of land disputes
       (total cost US$1.7 million, of which IDA US$1.0 million). The component was designed
       to strengthen the resolution of disputes by the MLMUPC as an element in the provision



                                                      2
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


       of tenure security in the titling process. The component's purpose was to build the
       institutional capacity of the National Cadastral Commission (NCC) and Cadastral
       Commissions at provincial (and, in some cases, district) level through the provision of
       technical assistance, office equipment, maps, training, public education and vehicles.
       Because parties bringing disputes before the Commissions were expected to have
       different financial resources, the component was also designed to contract national non-
       governmental organizations (NGOs) to provide legal aid services to the poor and
       disadvantaged in land disputes.
   ·   Component 5: Land management (total cost US$2.6 million, of which IDA US$1.1
       million). Before the Project, there were no maps showing the different classes of land
       tenure and land use arrangements. The purpose of the component was to support the
       MLMUPC in preparing land use and classification maps in the Project provinces through:
       (a) the clarification of procedures for the definition of different classes of land (such as
       forest land, protected area land, private land, State Public and Private Land, and others);
       (b) the procurement of aerial photographs and satellite images, as needed; and (c) the
       preparation of land classification maps for each of the Project provinces (e.g., showing
       the boundaries of forests, protected areas, and land under private, public and concession
       use).

10.     Resettlement under the Project. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated that no
eviction, involuntary resettlement or land acquisition was anticipated under the Project.
Nevertheless, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) provided that the Project had to be
carried out in accordance with Environmental and Social Guidelines (ESG) including a RPF that
would be triggered in the case of "evictions from state land (...) under Parts C (b) and (c) of the
Project" (i.e., those relating to systematic and sporadic titling). The RPF, agreed with the
Government and referenced in the DCA, states that its provisions would apply, inter alia, to
people negatively impacted by "the eviction from State land of individuals who had occupied it
prior to August 30, 2001, the date of the enactment of the 2001 Land Law, following titling of
such land in the name of the State."

11.     Implementation Arrangements. The MLMUPC was responsible for overall Project
implementation and a Project Management Office (PMO), headed by a Project Director, was
established within the MLMUPC to coordinate Project activities. The Project Director reported
to the Senior Minister, MLMUPC on matters of Project implementation and to the CLP through
its General Secretariat when seeking policy guidance. In accordance with Sub-decree No. 46,
dated May 31, 2002, Procedures to Establish Cadastral Index Map and Land Register, the
Provincial/Municipal Governor (under the Ministry of Interior) was responsible for the
declaration of an Adjudication Area which launched the process of systematic land titling in that
Area. Following such declaration and the formation of an Administrative Commission, it was
possible for Project-supported Land Registration Teams (LTRs) to enter and begin the process of
training, information gathering and raising public awareness in preparation for land titling.
Disputes that arose during the titling process were to be resolved at field level to the extent
possible or be referred to the NCC if local efforts were unsuccessful.

12.     Project Status. The revised Closing Date of the Credit was December 31, 2009. As a
result of the disagreement between the Bank and the Government concerning resettlement


                                                3
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


(described in Section III, below), and specifically in the context of the BKL area, the remaining
balance of the Credit was cancelled at the request of the Government which was made on
September 7, 2009. Full documentation for the Designated Account was received by the Bank
on September 16, 2010, and the remaining undisbursed balance of the Credit (SDR6.16 million,
US$9.40 million equivalent) was cancelled. At the time of the cancellation, SDR12.95 million
(US$19.78 million equivalent) had been disbursed, approximately 67 percent of the original
Credit amount. Associated trust funds, from the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), with cross cancelation clauses were also closed.

                        III.     SUMMARY OF MANAGEMENT'S 2009 RESPONSE

Project Context

13.     Cambodia has one of the highest levels of natural resource endowment per capita in
Southeast Asia in terms of arable land, forest, fisheries and water resources. At the same time, it
has one of the highest poverty rates in the region. Cambodia has always been a predominantly
agrarian society; more than 70 percent of the population and a higher percentage of the poor are
engaged in agriculture, and subsistence consumption absorbs 60-65 percent of agricultural
output.

14.     Cambodia's Rapid Recovery. The Khmer Rouge regime (1975-1979) took a heavy toll
on Cambodia: it treated the population savagely, executing those it considered to be its enemies
and brutally enforcing its policies by overworking and abusing its own people. Since the final
capitulation of the Khmer Rouge in 1998, Cambodia has enjoyed peace and stability. It more
than doubled its annual per capita income, from US$310 in 1997 to US$640 in 2008.1 This
growth was accompanied by a profound structural transformation of the economy including
global integration, a shift of jobs from agriculture to manufacturing, a demographic transition,
and population migration from rural to urban areas. This process led to a significant reduction in
poverty, from an estimated 45-50 percent in 1993-94 to 30 percent in 2007. Many other social
indicators confirm the improvements in welfare, particularly in health and education.

15.     Growth Brings New Opportunities and Challenges. Improving economic conditions
have attracted foreign direct investment and resulted in sharp increases in land prices over the
past decade. Rapid economic growth has created new opportunities but has also brought
development challenges as investments in the natural resources sector have had an impact on the
access to natural resources for neighboring poor communities. Management's efforts to address
broader causes of land and resource tenure insecurity became a focus of discussion in the Natural
Resources Management pillar of the Cambodia Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation
(PRGO) series and have been supported through a number of investment operations including
LMAP and later the Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development (LASED) Project2

1
    GNI per capita income, based on the World Bank Atlas Method.
2
    LASED is a US$8.7 million grant and US$2.8 million credit approved by the Board in May 2008, and effective
    since September 2008 (Closing Date of June 2013). LASED is also supported with recipient-executed trust
    funds (US$0.3 million) and German TA support (3 million). LASED is expected to improve the process for
    identification and use of State lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless or land-poor recipients
    that are selected through a transparent and well-targeted process. To date (December 2010) LASED has


                                                         4
                                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


and the Demand for Good Governance (DFGG) Project (with a natural resources management
theme under the non-State actor component and Land Law dissemination under the State actor
component).

16.     Support to Build a Modern Land Management Sector. In 2002, the Bank approved a
Credit for LMAP with the goal of supporting the first phase of the Government's long-term plan
to build a modern land management sector. After 25 years of conflict, the land sector in
Cambodia was considered one of the most challenging in the world: most land records had been
destroyed, there were numerous land disputes, and there was little capacity in the administration
with which to rebuild the sector. The Government established the legal framework by passing a
new Land Law in 2001 with the full endorsement of civil society and the international
development community.

17.     Focus on Fiduciary Risk. The Project was a risky undertaking in an environment with
significant governance challenges. Disbursements from the Credit were suspended from June
2006 to February 2007 following a Fiduciary Review,3 in which evidence of fraud and
corruption was uncovered in seven projects, including LMAP. Until late 2008, Management
tended to focus its attention on such fiduciary concerns, which include overpayments to LRTs
and excessive delays in title delivery. These concerns, and efforts to identify the causes and
remedies, became a major source of discussion within the Task Team, among donors and
between the Team and MLMUPC counterparts.

18.     NGOs Raise LMAP Design Concerns. In November 2008, the Task Team learned that
several NGOs working together on land tenure issues in Cambodia were raising concerns about
the design of LMAP and were preparing a critical report. The Team contacted these NGOs and
initiated a discussion on the design of a proposed second phase of LMAP including ways to
improve the level of protection for the poorest and most tenure insecure. By letter of January 12,
2009, the NGOs asked the Task Team for information on the adjudication status in the "Boeung
Kok area of Phnom Penh" without reference to Boeung Kak Lake or Sras Chok Commune. The
Task Team provided the NGOs with the adjudication status for all Project provinces and verified
internally that title deliveries in both Boeung Kak 1 and Boeung Kak 2 Communes (directly west
of the BKL development area in Sras Chok Commune) were within expected norms. At the
request of the NGOs, the Task Team arranged a meeting with the Technical Working Group on
Land (TWG-L) on January 20, 2009. In this meeting, NGOs asserted that poor and vulnerable
communities ­ particularly in urban areas ­ were at a disadvantage to obtain land titles and
should receive specific support through the Project.



    delivered livelihood and investment support services covering a total of 6,849 registered hectares in five
    communes benefiting 1,254 land recipients (against targets of 10,000 hectares; 20 communes; 3,000 recipients).
3
    Between July 2004 and September 2005, Management undertook a Fiduciary Review jointly with the assistance
    of the Government and with the Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity (INT). Following the Review,
    INT independent investigations uncovered evidence of corruption, collusion and fraudulent practices in 49
    contracts in seven Bank-financed projects (of which four, including the Project, were under implementation and
    three were already closed at the time of the investigation). There were 12 active projects in the portfolio and
    three projects were ultimately suspended (25 percent of the active portfolio). The results of this investigation
    were transmitted to the Region in May 2006.


                                                         5
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


19.     Violent evictions in central Phnom Penh. In the early morning of January 24, 2009,
armed police forcibly evicted residents from a poor urban settlement in Phnom Penh known as
Dey Krahorm and within a few weeks Management was approached by an NGO raising concerns
about threats of eviction in a neighboring community, "Group 78" (see Map 2). Neither of these
communities was in an LMAP Adjudication Area. Nevertheless, once Management realized that
there was an apparent acceleration of evictions in Phnom Penh, and thus potential harm to
Project-affected persons, it reacted promptly. Management organized a series of internal
discussions with all relevant units and decided to undertake an independent Enhanced Review
Mission (ERM)4 to ensure that there was a clear understanding of Project-related obligations.
Management also arranged a series of discussions with Government counterparts, NGOs and
Development Partners.

Boeung Kak Lake Residents and Resettlement

20.     The BKL case and the events surrounding the denial of residents' land claims and
involuntary resettlement from the BKL area were described in detail in the 2009 Response
(paragraphs 48-56; see also Annex 4 of this Report). As these events are the central focus of the
Request and the Panel's Report, they are summarized here for reference. The BKL area is a 133
ha site located in central Phnom Penh, in Sras Chok Commune, that originally consisted of a 90
ha lake surrounded by approximately 43 ha of land (see Map 3). The area was densely settled
and was home to approximately 20,000 people and a number of inexpensive hotels, restaurants
and bars that catered to low budget international travelers.

21.     Titling procedures started in May 2006 were not completed in the BKL area. Sras
Chok Commune, of which the BKL area is a part, was declared a LMAP Adjudication Area in
2006. The demarcation (gathering of survey data in relation to parcels of land) in the area was
carried out under the Project between May 2006 and January 2007. The public display of the
results of demarcation is recorded as having occurred between January 4 and February 2, 2007.
Management understands that: (a) local authorities claimed during the adjudication process that
the BKL area was State Public Land and that residents were therefore ineligible for titling;
(b) information on individual claims in the BKL area was not collected during the field survey;
(c) only village boundaries were demarcated in the cadastral map of the BKL area; and (d) these
were recorded as parcels in the cadastral record with "unknown"5 ownership.

22.    Negotiations between the Government and a private developer had started in 2005.
Despite assertions that the land in question was State Public Land, and hence could not be
claimed through legal possession by residents, plans for private development of the BKL area
were well advanced prior to the declaration of the area as an Adjudication Area. Copies of


4
    Management requested a Lead Counsel from the Environmental and International Law Unit (LEGEN), and a
    Senior Social Scientist (former Bank Staff) to undertake an ERM to Cambodia in late March 2009 (see full
    ERM Report in Annex 3 of the 2009 Response), before the BKL events and the first eviction notices which
    were issued in August 2009.
5
    "Unknown" is the classification that is generally used when State Public Land is encountered during the titling
    process as well as when land is subject to a dispute that cannot be resolved at the field level during systematic
    titling.


                                                         6
                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation


official letters6 indicate that the Government had already approved "in principle" the
development of the BKL area in accordance with the Shukaku7 master plan in August 2005 (nine
months prior to the declaration of the Adjudication Area). A further letter from the Government
to the Governor of Phnom Penh, dated January 2006 (also prior to the declaration of Sras Chok
as an Adjudication Area), indicates that the Government "agree[d] with" the Shukaku
development, understanding that the proposal would involve the filling of all but ten hectares of
BKL as well as dealing with the issue of "anarchic" settlements in the area. Final approval for
the development appears to have been granted by the Prime Minister on January 25, 2007, with
the MPP being sent authorization to sign the lease with Shukaku on January 30, 2007
(subsequent to the declaration of Sras Chok as an Adjudication Area but prior to completion of
the titling process).



                            Box 1. Steps in the Land Adjudication Process

      The procedures to be followed in systematic Adjudication Areas are set forth in Sub-
      Decree 46/2002. These procedures require inter alia:
         1. a public "opening meeting" at the beginning of the process to explain the
             procedures, clarify legal matters and answer questions;
         2. a demarcation process by which the boundaries of each parcel are demarcated with
             the participation of owners or holders of that parcel and its neighbors;
         3. the inclusion of the demarcated parcels in a cadastral map;
         4. an investigation and recording of the rights associated with each parcel in the
             adjudication record based on all available evidence, including oral information;
         5. a public display period for people to view the maps of adjudicated parcels; and
         6. an opportunity to present objections and the resolution of disputes by a local
             Cadastral Commission and, if disputes cannot be settled at that level, by the National
             Cadastral Commission.


23.     A lease was signed in February 2007. Based on copies of official documents shared
informally with the Bank and press reports, Management became aware, while preparing the
2009 Response, that MPP had signed a lease for the BKL area for 99 years with Shukaku in
February 2007. According to the 2001 Land Law, State Public Land can only be subject to short,
temporary occupation and use (Article 16). Sub-Decree 129 on Rules and Procedure on
Reclassification of State Public Properties and Public Entities (2006) further clarifies that
leasing of State public property must not exceed 15 years and must not damage the property or
change its function in providing public utility.

24.    In August 2008, the Government issued a Sub-Decree to convert the area from State
Public Land to State Private Land, more than a year after the lease had been signed. The 2001


6
    Management was not copied on the referenced correspondence but received and reviewed informally shared
    copies of these official letters during the preparation of the 2009 Response.
7
    Shukaku Inc. is the development company that leased the BKL area from the Municipality of Phnom Penh
    (MPP) in February 2007.


                                                    7
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


Land Law provides that such reclassifications may only be completed by the issuance of a Law if
the property in question has lost its "public interest use" (Article 16).

25.    Formal eviction notices were first delivered to Villages 2 and 4 in August 2009, and
the most recent eviction notices were given to residents in Villages 22 and 24 in November
2010. Of the approximately 20,000 people who lived in the BKL area, it is estimated that half
have already been resettled or forced to move due to site preparation activities and associated
flooding since the developer began operations in the area in August 2008.

Summary of Management Conclusions in the 2009 Response

26.     In the 2009 Response, Management concluded that proper procedures were not
followed in the adjudication of the Sras Chok commune. Based on available information,
Management stated its belief that residents in the Adjudication Area of BKL were not given a
sufficient opportunity to present claims regarding their possession of the land and to have those
claims adjudicated in accordance with prescribed procedures (see Box 1 above). There was to
Management's knowledge no evidence that residents were directed to dispute resolution
mechanisms that would have allowed them to contest the conclusions set forth in the
adjudication record.

27.     Management further concluded (and the Panel has subsequently agreed with this
conclusion) that the Borrower is obligated to apply the RPF to displacements or threatened
displacements from the Sras Chok Adjudication Area. Management noted that the
Government does not believe that the BKL site meets the criteria for triggering the RPF,
specifically, that no titles have been issued in the name of the State. As a consequence,
resettlement from the BKL area has been taking place without reference to the RPF.
Management acknowledged that a lack of specificity in Project documents and the absence of
detailed discussions about the reach of the RPF may have contributed to subsequent differing
interpretations regarding the Government's obligations.

28.     Management also recognized that there were a number of specific shortcomings in
Project design and supervision, some of which were subsequently raised by the Requesters.
There was significant Task Team engagement but the repeated attempts during the life of the
Project to hire NGOs to support Public Awareness and Community Participation and to provide
Legal Assistance remained unsuccessful, in part because of low levels of trust between
Government and NGOs and procurement delays. Management noted that only partial progress
was made in the area of State Land Management (Component 5).

29.     Management came to the conclusion that both the design and supervision of
safeguards instruments under the Project should have been more robust. While
understanding that Project supervision after the lifting of the suspension of disbursements had
focused too narrowly on fiduciary aspects and the delivery of land titles, Management also found
that it should have engaged more intensively with the Government regarding the dispute
resolution mechanisms that were being supported under the Project and on how to respond to
rapidly changing circumstances (e.g., the unanticipated exponential growth of land values and
resulting land conflicts in Phnom Penh).



                                                      8
                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation


30.    Despite its inability to reach agreement with the Government on the applicability of the
RPF to BKL, Management committed to continue to engage the Government and other
Development Partners in finding ways to address the needs of BKL residents. In this regard, an
Action Plan was proposed in the 2009 Response. However, Management recognized that this
could only be accomplished with the support of the Government.

31.      Management remains deeply concerned about the difficulties faced by BKL residents
including the conditions created by the developer's pumping of sand into the lake and associated
damage to
Requesters'
homes and                                    Box 2. Some Recent Headlines
livelihoods, as
illustrated in the
local English
language media
(see Box 2).
Management has
met several times
with Requesters
and their
representatives in
an effort to
understand the
developing
situation and to be
better able to
reflect Requesters'
needs and views
in its continuing
dialogue with the
Government.


                                   IV.    FINDINGS OF THE PANEL

32.       The Panel's findings are organized according to the five main claims of the Requesters:
      ·   The claim that the events in the BKL area are linked to the Project;
      ·   The claim that residents of the BKL area were denied adjudication of their property
          claims under the Project;
      ·   The claim that residents of the BKL area were displaced in violation of the agreed policy
          framework for involuntary resettlement;
      ·   The claim that the titling process adopted by the Project weakened pre-existing tenure
          rights; and
      ·   The claim that other communities in Project provinces also experienced forced evictions.


                                                   9
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project




33.     Relevant Bank Policies. With respect to this Project, the Panel found that the Bank was
not in compliance with the following policies and procedures regarding the issues raised in the
Request:

          OMS 2.20                    Project Appraisal
          OD 4.30                     Involuntary Resettlement
          OP/BP 13.05                 Project Supervision

34.     Findings. Management appreciates the Panel's observations that the 2009 Response
presented a frank and detailed assessment of issues arising from the Request, including those
related to compliance with Bank policies. A complete and detailed presentation of the Panel's
findings is set out in Annex 1, with Management's comments and clarifications.

                                      V.      SPECIAL ISSUES

35.    Management considers the Panel's Report to be helpful in terms of sharpening and
confirming Management's own assessment in the 2009 Response of a number of Project
shortcomings. In particular, the Panel reinforces Management's conclusions that:
   ·   The residents in the BKL area were denied access to due process of adjudication of their
       property claims;
   ·   The residents in the BKL area were displaced in violation of the agreed policies for
       involuntary resettlement;
   ·   There are several ambiguities concerning the triggering and application of the RPF;
   ·   Evictions are not limited to the BKL area; and
   ·   Management did not adequately follow up Project commitments to strengthen public
       awareness and community participation, to ensure legal protection to residents exposed to
       risk of eviction and to provide adequate access to dispute resolution mechanisms, nor did
       it adequately address issues related to State land management.

36.     In this Section, Management offers its observations on the following issues related to the
Project, Management's actions following its 2009 Response and the Panel's investigation:
   ·   Project development benefits;
   ·   Implementation of the 2009 Management Action Plan;
   ·   Other potential cases in LMAP Adjudication Areas, outside BKL;
   ·   Design and appraisal issues;
   ·   Implementation and supervision issues; and
   ·   Cause of harm suffered by the Requesters.




                                                  10
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


The Project Delivered Significant Development Benefits

37.      Management appreciates the Panel's observation that the Project had some
significant successes. Although the Project did not achieve all it set out to do, it nonetheless
delivered a number of significant results. It is important to emphasize that the Project was
intended to support, and to be the first phase of, a long-term program of land titling and
management. In such a complex project, some shortcomings should have been anticipated but
with the Government, the Bank and the Development Partners working in harmony, most if not
all of the deficiencies would have been resolved in a series of operations. Experience has shown
that long-term success in land-related projects is measured in decades. Key results are
summarized in the next paragraphs and presented in more detail in Annex 3.

38.    In terms of institutional development, the Project established and operated key
administrative functions for land titling within the MLMUPC. In the development of land policy
and a regulatory framework, it supported formulation of policies and regulations necessary for
the implementation of all three pillars of the Government's long-term LAMDP, including
systematic titling, sporadic titling, the Cadastral Commission, State land management, economic
land concessions, social land concessions and titling of indigenous lands.

39.     With respect to land titling and development of a land registration system, by
September 2009 more than 1.58 million land parcels had been surveyed and 1.24 million titles
distributed to beneficiaries, 92 percent of which were in rural areas, where a higher percentage of
the poor live. This represents a very significant achievement for the LRTs and the Implementing
Agency, which had very limited capacity prior to the Project. In a Beneficiary Assessment
carried out in 2006, nearly half of the respondents (46 percent) claimed access to credit as the
key benefit that could be derived from land titling. The Project also enabled the increased
collection of revenue from both land taxes and transaction fees, and the additional revenue
collected between 2004 and 2007 exceeded the amount borrowed under the IDA Credit.

40.    In strengthening mechanisms for dispute resolution, the Project helped to establish the
NCC and to create provincial and district-level commissions for mediating land disputes. The
provision of legal assistance for the disadvantaged was piloted with German technical assistance
(GTZ) support, but the Project was not successful in recruiting NGOs to continue this work.

41.     With respect to land management, the key results were the development of procedures
for land classification and the procurement of aerial photographs needed to support land
classification and land titling. The Project helped to put in place key elements of the policy and
regulatory framework for State land management and administration, including national policies
on Social Land Concessions (in 2003), State Land Management (2004), Economic Land
Concessions (2005) and Indigenous People's Land (2009), but the implementation of State land
mapping and related processes was limited to pilot operations. While the development of this
legal framework is considered an achievement, Management notes that implementation under the
new law and regulations has been uneven.

42.  Because of a weak Results Framework defined in the PAD, achievements against the
PDOs are difficult to assess. In the absence of relevant baseline data or a defined methodology



                                                11
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


for collecting data, the improvement in land tenure security is difficult to assess. As noted
earlier, the 2006 Beneficiary Assessment showed an increase in land transactions and the
MLMUPC reported an increase in tax and fee collection for the period 2004-2007, both
indicators of an improvement in the land market.

Limited Progress in Implementation of the 2009 Management Action Plan

43.     In its 2009 Response, Management put forward a detailed Action Plan intended to
help mitigate the harm suffered by BKL residents and to address other issues arising from
the Request. These actions were grouped into three categories: (a) supporting the communities
that were affected; (b) supporting improvements in resettlement policy and land dispute
resolution for the benefit of all communities at risk; and (c) learning the lessons. The table in
Annex 2 describes the proposed actions and the present status of their implementation.

44.    Despite efforts by Management and a continuing dialogue with the Government on
various aspects of the Action Plan, progress has been very limited to date. Some of the
proposed actions have been partially implemented:
    ·   Actions supporting policy developments, including passage of: (a) a Law on
        Expropriation (January 2010); and (b) a Circular on Resolution of Illegal Temporary
        Settlements in City and Urban Areas (Circular No. 3; May 2010) following consultation
        with stakeholders. The Government has also drafted a Housing Policy and sought public
        input on the draft. To date, however, these policy developments have had only a limited
        impact on the ways in which the Government is dealing with communities like those in
        BKL and concerns exist that Circular No. 3 is not being fully implemented.8
    ·   Actions supporting the dissemination of the Land Law including the funding, under
        the DFGG Project, of a Land Law dissemination pilot in one district in Kampot Province,
        with a national media campaign and further local dissemination efforts to be launched in
        2011.
    ·   Additional actions addressing tenure issues in vulnerable communities, including the
        preparation of two Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) proposals on: (a) Indigenous
        People's access to land and natural resources; and (b) vulnerable urban communities.
    ·   Research has been conducted to identify land disputes, outside of the BKL area, which
        overlap with LMAP Adjudication Areas. The results of this research are summarized in
        the next section and in Annex 7.

45.     Unfortunately, there has been virtually no progress on the most significant proposed
actions. These are the actions designed to address the consequences of evictions in Project
areas, and more specifically in the BKL area, and which can only be accomplished with the
agreement and full cooperation of the Government. Management has attempted to pursue
several initiatives to support the communities that have been affected, including: (a) undertaking
a social impact assessment on the affected communities in the BKL area and in other Project
provinces; (b) preparing a plan that would ensure that negative impacts, particularly on poor and


8
    Government has only recently initiated the capacity building required to implement the new Circular.


                                                        12
                                                               Management Report and Recommendation


vulnerable affected groups, are mitigated and that economic opportunities are developed; (c)
offering the possibility of using other IDA credits for the purpose of providing a set of protection
measures to the affected people in line with what they would have received under the RPF; and
(d) offering to assist in designing and commissioning of additional investigations or studies to
evaluate options to mitigate adverse environmental impacts from the filling of the BKL. To date,
the Government has not agreed to proceed with these initiatives.

46.     The primary obstacle to implementation of the Action Plan has been the continued
and fundamental disagreement between Bank Management and the Government over the
applicability of the Project's RPF to the evictions at BKL. The Government has consistently
taken the view that the RPF does not apply to BKL because the disputed land has not been "titled
in the name of the State" as specified in the relevant RPF trigger. Management has carefully
considered Government's position but argues that the actions taken by the MPP to lease the area
demonstrate a de facto decision that BKL is State land. Not applying the RPF simply because no
formal title was issued in the name of the State is contrary to the spirit and intention of the RPF
and leaves BKL residents without any formal mechanism to mitigate the harms they have
suffered. Despite substantial efforts to discuss and agree with Government on this fundamental
point, to date the Government do not recognize the link between the Project and BKL events.
Government is therefore reluctant to accept Bank support to assist BKL communities because
this could be interpreted as acceptance of the linkage. Management in its 2009 Response noted
that there were ambiguities in the RPF and a lack of clarity and consistency in the Bank Team's
own understanding of its ambit, and that these may have contributed to the different
understandings by the Government. Furthermore, reflecting the complexity of the issue, in-
country representatives of the Development Partners supporting LMAP have also expressed
reservations about whether there is a link between the Project and BKL events. Nevertheless, in
Management's view, the intent of the RPF is sufficiently clear to conclude that it applies to the
events that took place at BKL, a position confirmed by the Panel in its Report.

Management's Identification of other LMAP Adjudication Areas from which Evictions
Have Occurred or Are Threatened

47.     The Management Action Plan includes an undertaking to identify other Project
areas where Management believes that the RFP should have been applied. This involved
efforts to identify "other potential cases of communities that were resettled or evicted or are
threatened with resettlement or eviction from Adjudication Areas without proper compliance
with administrative procedures or implementation of the RPF." Management reports in detail on
the results of this work in Annex 7. To summarize the key findings:
   ·   LMAP supported systematic titling in 232 communes through September 2009;
   ·   Management has identified 234 communes in which current land disputes are reported (in
       the media or by NGOs), out of which 31 overlap LMAP Adjudication Areas;
   ·   Broken down to the level of households, this research has identified an estimated
       8,448 households (in addition to approximately 4,000 in the BKL area) falling into the
       broad category of reported evictions, pending evictions or other multi-party land disputes
       in communes where LMAP systematic titling was active; and



                                                13
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


   ·   Preliminary results suggest that the percentage of communes in which evictions, pending
       evictions and multi-party land disputes are reported by NGOs or the media is virtually the
       same in non-LMAP areas (14.6 percent of communes) as in LMAP areas (13.4 percent of
       communes). While evictions have occurred in a range of contexts and for a range of
       reasons in both LMAP and non-LMAP communes, the presence of LMAP in a commune
       does not appear to influence the incidence of evictions.

48.      In short, Management has collected a significant amount of data related to areas other
than BKL where the RPF might apply. However, for the reasons already described concerning
lack of progress on the overall Action Plan, Management has thus far not been in a position to
act upon this information or work with the Government to ensure proper implementation of steps
to assist the affected people in these communities. Management has recently shared the
information on incidence of evictions in Cambodia (inside and outside LMAP Adjudication
Areas) with the Government and the in-country representatives of the Development Partners and,
consistent with the proposed Action Plan, Management will continue to offer support for
initiatives that respond to the needs of tenure insecure and recently resettled communities,
especially those living in or coming from LMAP Adjudication Areas.

Issues concerning Project Design and Appraisal

49.     In its 2009 Response, Management recognized that there were a number of issues in the
Project's design that could have been better resolved during preparation or appraisal. While
noting that OMS 2.20 on Project Appraisal was not referred to in the Request for Inspection, and
therefore was not discussed in the 2009 Response, Management would like to address the issues
of project design that were raised by the Panel in its Report.

50.    The Panel finds that design flaws in the Project led to the arbitrary exclusion of land
from the titling process and that this denied residents the opportunity to formalize their rights
through the adjudication process under the Project. Management would like to emphasize that it
was not the intent of the Project design to exclude areas subject to dispute from titling. It was
recognized that the process of adjudication of titles is virtually certain to encounter disputes;
whatever problems were subsequently encountered in implementation, the Project was designed
to address disputes, either in the field or through dispute resolution mechanisms.

51.     The vision of the Land Law and the LAMDP, of which the Project was the first phase,
was eventually to cover the entire country. As noted in the 2009 Response, the Project was
designed to be implemented sequentially, working first in selected Adjudication Areas and then
moving on to others. LMAP Adjudication Areas were typically entire communes, and their
selection was based on decisions made at the local government level. The Project was not
expected to cover all communes within the Project provinces. In determining where to target
Project activities, given the limited resources and the need to build capacity in a weak institution,
it was in Management's view a reasonable exercise of judgment to start the process in areas
where the level of disputes was relatively low. The selection of Adjudication Areas, however,
did not represent an exclusion of those areas that were not selected; systematic titling was
intended eventually to cover the whole country over the course of 15 years.




                                                  14
                                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


52.     In Management's view, it is important to distinguish between a decision on whether or
not to declare an Adjudication Area and a failure, once such an Area has been declared, to carry
out the adjudication process in accordance with the required procedures (including referrals to
dispute resolution mechanisms). It was the latter that occurred at BKL. There are no references
in the Project documents to excluding households or plots from the systematic titling process on
the basis that they are involved in disputes; both the Project documents and Cambodian law
provide for such disputes to be resolved through systematic titling and its associated dispute
resolution processes.

53.     The Panel observes that the primary objective of the Project was to determine the
legality of any claims to land and that even people who prima facie seem to be illegally
occupying land are entitled to proper adjudication of their claims. Management concurs with the
Panel's observation that this was a central focus of the Project, but would like to emphasize that,
in its view, Project design was consistent with this observation. References in Project
documentation to the Project "not supporting the regularization of informal settlements" did not
imply that the Project was designed to exclude peoples' claims on the basis of an a priori
judgment that they were "informal" or "squatters." Instead, these references are grounded in the
fact that, if a person was legitimately determined to be an informal settler (either through
adjudication or through classification of land as State Public Land), the Project would not be able
to issue a title unless and until the Government decided to allocate the land to that person. There
is a distinction between land titling operations (which clarify and reflect the existing legal rights
of people) and the regularization of informal settlements (which upgrades people's rights): the
Project was designed for the former, not the latter (see 2009 Response, paragraph 36).

54.     The Panel finds that although the risks associated with the Project were properly
identified, the proposed mitigation measures were deficient. Three of the risks identified in
the PAD9 did indeed materialize (see 2009 Response, paragraph 34). Management recognizes
that the risk mitigation measures proposed were not sufficiently robust to deal with these risks,
especially in light of their significant exacerbation as the situation in the land sector changed
dramatically during Project implementation, in particular in Phnom Penh. Management has also
recognized that the PAD assertion that the risk of not reaching agreement on the process of land
classification could be overcome by supporting a "consultation process to build broad consensus
for decisions" and "technical assistance to the Council for Land Policy to reach consensus
among the various government agencies..." was unrealistic. With the benefit of hindsight,
Management recognizes that "... a more detailed analysis of the political economy context would
likely have identified this view as overly optimistic and that: (a) success in this respect depended
on high-level inter-agency coordination; (b) consultation would not necessarily lead to
consensus; and (c) numerous actors had strong incentives not to proceed with a transparent and
public interest based classification and registration of State land."




9
    (a) that governance does not improve; (b) that Government lacks commitment to ensuring the functioning of the
    dispute resolution mechanism; and (c) that Government entities and other stakeholders are not able to reach
    agreement on the process of land classification.


                                                       15
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


Issues concerning Project Implementation and Supervision

55.     In its 2009 Response, Management recognized that there were a number of specific
shortcomings in Project supervision. Management found that Project supervision, in the
aftermath of the 2006 Fiduciary Review conducted by INT, had focused too narrowly on
fiduciary aspects and the delivery of land titles, and recognized that some activities were only
partially implemented. Despite significant Task Team engagement, repeated attempts to hire
NGOs to support Public Awareness and Community Participation (Sub-component 3.a) and to
provide Legal Assistance (Sub-component 4.c) remained unsuccessful. Government's inability
to hire NGOs was attributable to various causes: low levels of trust between Government and
NGOs and procurement delays (see also Lessons Learned, Section VI). Management also noted:
(a) that only partial progress was made in the area of State Land Management (Component 5);
and (b) that several opportunities were missed to restructure the Project to address
implementation issues as they arose and to respond to the rapidly changing circumstances on the
ground (e.g., the unanticipated exponential growth of land values and resulting land conflicts in
Cambodia).

56.     In the next paragraphs, Management would like to address three specific issues raised in
the Panel's Report: (a) Management's failure to act on information regarding the problems in the
BKL area; (b) Management's lack of systematic attention to social consequences of land titling;
and (c) the lack of a robust Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System for the Project.

57.    In its Report, the Panel finds that the actions taken by Bank Management were too
late to prevent the harms now being done in the BKL area, although it recognizes that
Management's recent supervision of the Project complies with the Bank's Operational
Policy 13.05 on Project Supervision as concerns the issues arising in the Request.

58.    Management would like to reiterate, as detailed in the 2009 Response, that once it
realized in early 2009 that there was an apparent acceleration of evictions, and thus
potential harm to Project-affected persons, it reacted promptly:
   ·   It followed a multi-pronged approach including dialogue with the Government, NGOs
       and community members. It fielded the ERM mission and, in light of the mission's
       findings, advocated with the Government for a moratorium on evictions and the
       development of a national resettlement framework.
   ·   It took the lead in collaboration with other Development Partners in the issuance of a
       joint public statement calling for a halt to evictions of Cambodia's urban poor (see
       Annex 5).
   ·   It sanctioned a Safeguards Review Mission in August 2009 in an effort to develop a
       mutual understanding with Government on the process to be followed in the BKL area.
   ·   It relayed to high levels of Government on several occasions that Government was
       obliged under the DCA to comply with the Bank's Resettlement Policy and the Project's
       RPF.




                                                  16
                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


     ·   It offered to allocate IDA resources to properly resettle the BKL communities, and
         proposed that the Bank and the Government jointly agree to suspend the Project while the
         policy framework was improved.

59.     In its 2009 Response, Management acknowledged that it was slower than it should
have been in recognizing linkages between the threatened evictions at BKL and the
Government's obligations under the RPF and in communicating with the Government on
this point. Management has acknowledged that the RPF triggers were ambiguously defined and
that, because of the inherent complexity of the situation, it required substantial internal
discussion to reach a consensus on the applicability of the RPF in the BKL case. However, once
Management concluded that the RPF was triggered and clarified the Government's obligations in
relation to the RPF, the Government indicated that it would not have borrowed if these
conditions had been fully understood at the outset. This response suggests that earlier action on
Management's part is unlikely to have led the Government to acknowledge that the RPF applies
to the Requesters.

60.     The Panel found that Management's attention to the social consequences of land
titling, including potential evictions, was not systematic and suffered from a lack of
attention from social safeguard specialists. In its 2009 Response, Management acknowledged
that the follow up on safeguards issues could have been more robust. Management would like to
clarify that a senior safeguards specialist participated in preparations for the LMAP Mid-term
Review (MTR, September 2004) and in both the ERM (April 2009) and the Safeguards Review
Mission (August 2009). The latter was fielded as evictions at BKL appeared imminent. The
mission was unable to meet with the Project Director or other government officials but instead
prepared a detailed written request for information from LMAP and met with NGOs and
Requesters to discuss efforts to forestall the threatened evictions. In September 2009,
Management also undertook a Safeguards Performance Review10 of the entire Cambodia
portfolio of nineteen projects.

61.    On the Panel's finding that, as a consequence of the lack of a robust M&E system
for the Project, Management did not become aware of significant issues arising from the
Project, Management acknowledges that the failure to define how and by whom the M&E
system was supposed to be designed was a shortcoming of both Project preparation and
appraisal. However, the need to establish an M&E system was insisted upon during supervision
and reiterated in the MTR. An M&E Manual was finally adopted in December 2006 and the
Project had begun to apply the M&E system through a unit that had received special training.
The M&E system was described as functioning well by mid-2008, although it was still
inadequate to alert the Task Team to the problems that were arising in LMAP titling areas.

Issues related to the Cause of Harm Suffered by the Requesters

62.    Management has acknowledged in its 2009 Response that there were a number of
shortcomings in Project design and supervision. The Panel, in its Report, generally confirms
and deepens Management's own assessment of these shortcomings. In several instances,

10
     This desk review was carried out by a small team from September 21 to October 7, 2009, which produced a
     report "Cambodia Portfolio: Safeguards Performance Review", dated November 3, 2009.


                                                     17
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


however, the Panel extends its analysis and states that these supervision and design weaknesses
"contributed to the harm suffered by the Requesters."

63.     Management wishes to emphasize that the cause of harm or risk of harm to the
Requesters is eviction or threatened eviction from the BKL area. These evictions were
carried out, and continue to be carried out, by the MPP and Shukaku, the BKL area developer
(neither of which is the Implementing Agency of the Project), based on the Government's
consistent assertion that the land in question is State land that has legitimately been leased to the
developer and that the Requesters do not have possession rights. Management has not endorsed
this assertion and, as noted in the 2009 Response, has concluded that the actions of the
Government were not consistent with its obligations under the RPF or DCA.

64.      While the evictions have occurred within an LMAP Adjudication Area,
Management notes that it has found no evidence to suggest that the Project was used as a
vehicle for carrying out or justifying the evictions. The Government did not use LMAP as an
instrument to assert or confirm ownership over the area. Instead, the Government maintains that
its actions were outside the scope of the Project. Furthermore, as reported in the 2009 Response
and confirmed by the Panel, Government evictions have also occurred in recent years in many
other parts of Cambodia, both within and outside Project Provinces and LMAP Adjudication
Areas. Management has found no basis for concluding that LMAP contributed to evictions.
Based on available data, the reported incidence of evictions and multi-party land disputes inside
and outside Adjudication Areas appears to be roughly equal.

65.     In offering these observations, Management does not intend to diminish the severity
of the harm suffered by the Requesters. Both the 2009 Response and the Panel's Report have
concluded that the Requesters suffered serious harm or the threat of harm. Both provide detailed
assessments of how Project procedures and policy frameworks intended to help avoid or mitigate
such harm were not adequately deployed, and that remedial action by the Government is required
under its obligations defined in the DCA. Nevertheless, Management considers it essential that
these shortcomings are characterized properly in terms of their relationship to the harm suffered
by the residents of BKL.

66.    In this respect, Management notes that the Board's Resolution and Clarifications
pertaining to the Panel provide helpful guidance. The 1999 Clarification states at paragraphs
13 and 14: "the Panel will discuss in its written report only those material adverse effects,
alleged in the request, that have totally or partially resulted from serious Bank failure of
compliance with its policies and procedures (...) For assessing material adverse effect, the
without-project situation should be used as the base case for comparison, taking into account
what baseline information may be available. Non-accomplishments and unfulfilled expectations
that do not generate a material deterioration compared to the without-project situation will not
be considered as a material adverse effect for this purpose..."

67.    Despite what could be considered LMAP's non-accomplishments and unfulfilled
expectations, it is Management's view that the Bank's failures neither created nor
exacerbated a risk of eviction beyond the risk that would have existed in the absence of the
Project. LMAP clearly did not live up to its promise and potential in terms of improving tenure



                                                  18
                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


security for residents of the BKL area. Both the 2009 Response and the Panel's Report leave
little doubt that, with respect to BKL residents, the benefits and protections provided by LMAP
fell short of expectations and that Management was unable to prevent or mitigate the harm that
occurred. As noted in the 2009 Response, "Management considers that the communities of BKL
did not benefit from the protection provided under the Project's design." At the same time, it
should be recalled that the request for early cancellation of the Credit by the Government was
prompted by Management's request to the Government to mutually suspend Project
implementation and allow time to reach consensus on how to address the concerns of BKL
residents. The Government's continuing actions at BKL and elsewhere lend support to the view
that the Project's shortcomings did not cause or compound the risk of evictions or the subsequent
treatment of those evicted.

                                  VI.     LESSONS LEARNED

68.     A number of lessons can be drawn from the implementation and achievements of the
Project. They are particularly relevant to the management of high-risk operations and are timely
as the Bank introduces a more structured approach to risk management through the Operational
Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF). They all point to the need to bridge gaps between project
design and implementation.
   ·   The focus on a single set of risks can contribute to blind spots. As the 2009 Response
       described in detail, the Project experienced acute fiduciary problems leading to a
       temporary suspension of disbursements from the Credit. Addressing these problems
       occupied the attention of the Task Team and Management for an extended period at the
       expense of other types of risks. A more structured approach to the consideration of risk,
       notably during implementation, is critical to keep a broader perspective (e.g., with regard
       to the political economy environment). In this Project, in particular, there should have
       been extensive inputs from Management before and after supervision missions to avoid
       blind spots. Proactive and adequately-resourced supervision strategies should have been
       adopted, which could have helped to address implementation issues as they arose and to
       seize the opportunity to restructure the Project at the MTR (2004), at the lifting of the
       suspension of disbursements (February 2007) or at the extension of the Closing Date of
       the Credit (December 2007).
   ·   Multiple sources of information are required to inform project management.
       Because of the late establishment of the Project's M&E system and its focus on land
       titling, the Bank and the Government had very little "real-time" information on what was
       happening on the ground. The Project needed an on-line management information
       system (including regularly updated maps), an accompanying socio-economic research
       agenda to examine impact, and a continuing process of communication with NGOs. The
       generation and dissemination of information would have been facilitated by a binding
       agreement on public disclosure prepared at the design stage.
   ·   The Results Framework and the M&E system go hand-in-hand and should be
       designed with implementation in mind. The LMAP experience is a reminder that
       objectives should be kept as simple as possible and should avoid including vaguely-
       specified impacts and outcomes whose achievement requires the satisfaction of
       conditions outside the Project's control. Broadly-defined outcome indicators are difficult


                                               19
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


       (if not impossible) to measure and in the case of this Project show that the operational
       aspects of M&E had not been sufficiently thought through at the design stage. For a
       Results Framework to be credible, it is essential to have the core elements of an M&E
       system established before project implementation commences, including having all base-
       line data prepared.
   ·   Safeguards requirements should be clear and supported by an explicit supervision
       plan. LMAP safeguards instruments needed to be clearer in terms of their applicability,
       and should have provided a more specific definition of the roles and responsibilities of
       key actors, including Management, the client, Project-affected people and civil society.
       Furthermore, the use of safeguards frameworks (e.g., Environmental Mitigation
       Framework--EMF, RPF and Indigenous People Policy Framework--IPPF) entails
       ensuring that counterparts have adequate capacity to screen sub-projects as well as to
       prepare the safeguards instruments when required during project implementation. In
       addition, a comprehensive and detailed safeguards supervision plan for the Project should
       have been prepared during appraisal, commensurate with the potential risks and the
       nature of the investment. For all projects considered to be "high risk," there should be
       intensive supervision during the first year of implementation involving at least two
       safeguards supervision missions which, in turn, would assess the specific needs for the
       following years. Overall, LMAP would have benefited from closer safeguards
       supervision.
   ·   Reliance on parallel programs is an important risk factor. The LMAP design relied
       on a separate, donor-funded program to be implemented in parallel (see references to the
       Informal Settlements Program in the 2009 Response) to ensure that the poorest and most
       tenure-insecure communities would benefit from titling. This parallel program covered
       Phnom Penh alone and no comparable arrangements were included under LMAP to
       address similar issues elsewhere. This introduced an unidentified risk and should have
       been accompanied by a detailed plan for coordination between the two programs in
       Phnom Penh and plans to develop a similar arrangement for State lands elsewhere.
   ·   Sequencing operations. Careful consideration should be given to the relative sequencing
       and merits of: (a) proceeding with a land titling project (focusing exclusively in areas
       where the level of disputes is relatively low); (b) developing a program for upgrading
       informal settlements before moving forward with large-scale land titling (especially
       under circumstances where land disputes are common); or (c) having parallel operations
       that attempt to accomplish both goals simultaneously. Dispute resolution without
       recourse to urban housing development and livelihoods support was an inadequate
       solution in the case of LMAP.
   ·   Specific Implementation Arrangements. The Project's design called for NGOs to play
       an advocacy role (in raising public awareness, bringing disputes to the fore and providing
       legal assistance to the poor) but it was unrealistic to expect that the Government and
       NGOs would be able to engage in formal contracts. This requirement, with hindsight,
       could have been handled via a Bank-executed Trust Fund, as has been done in more
       recent land and natural resource sector projects in Cambodia (e.g., LASED).




                                                  20
                                                               Management Report and Recommendation


69.     These lessons learned would be important to any future Bank involvement in Cambodia
and have broad relevance for land administration projects in general, particularly those in high-
risk environments. They will be reflected in the LMAP Implementation Completion and Results
Report to be delivered in the third quarter of Fiscal Year (FY) 2011, mainstreamed as good
practices and included in regional operational training for Bank staff and Government
counterparts.

VII.   MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

70.     Management notes that there has been very limited progress in the implementation of the
Action Plan set forth in the 2009 Response. The Government continues to disagree with
Management's position that the Project's RPF applies to the evictions at BKL. Management also
finds troubling the continuing threats of eviction and the Government's apparent inability to
implement its own new regulations on resettlement (Circular No. 3 on the Resolution of
Temporary Settlements on Illegally Occupied Land in Urban Areas).

71.     Relations between the Government and the Bank regarding the BKL issues remain
strained as the Government has consistently stated that it does not agree with the conclusions of
the 2009 Response and has continued to decline support from the Bank to implement core
elements of the proposed Action Plan (specifically those that would ensure that the Requesters
and other Project-affected persons facing resettlement are treated in accordance with the RPF).
More recently, following a brief presentation of the Panel's findings by Country Management,
Government indicated that it is still not persuaded that the RPF applies and, as such, that it is not
prepared to work with the Bank on the implementation of an Action Plan that includes the BKL
resettlement issues. Further, the Government made it clear that the MPP will continue to take the
lead in handling the situation according to the legal and policy framework of Cambodia.
Management has also offered, and Government has signaled some interest to pursue, a general
program of assessment and support to resettled communities but the inclusion of BKL in the
scope of this work remains a sensitive issue. Government has indicated its initial support for
such a program if implemented by a trusted NGO, but to date no agreement has been reached on
the scope or scale.

72.      Management agrees with the Panel that engagement on land issues in Cambodia is highly
relevant to the country's development and is consistent with both the Government's long-term
development vision and the Bank's overall mandate of poverty reduction. However, while the
Panel states that it "hopes that this Investigation Report will contribute to the start of a new
engagement with the Government on the resolution of issues raised by the requesters," the
current state of dialogue on these issues has deteriorated to the point that the Bank's ability to
facilitate solutions is diminished. This is in contrast to the discussion that was commencing in
November 2008, on the design of a proposed second phase of LMAP, including ways to improve
protections for the poorest and most tenure insecure. At this stage, Management faces very
limited options to mitigate the harm suffered by people in LMAP areas and to use the lessons it
has learned as the foundation for a more robust engagement in the land sector in Cambodia.
Indeed, it may need to scale back engagement in the sector until a consensus can be reached on
the way forward (as happened in the forest sector in 2006, following the Panel's investigation of
the Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Project).



                                                 21
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project




73.     Despite these difficulties, Management continues to believe that the priorities that helped
shape the Action Plan included in the 2009 Response remain valid. In view of this and based on
the history of the last 15 months, Management considers the most constructive way to support
the affected residents of BKL is to move beyond further discussion of well-entrenched views.
This would allow building on what Management believes should be a shared recognition with the
Government and the Development Partners that the people in BKL have significant grievances
that need to be addressed. Towards this end, Management proposes to pursue engagement at the
highest level of Government with the objective of gaining support from the Government and the
Development Partners: (a) to support affected communities in the BKL area in a manner that
responds to their development and livelihood needs; and (b) to ensure that any communities that
need to be resettled in the future benefit from a resettlement policy that meets appropriate
standards and have recourse to fair and independent dispute resolution mechanisms.

74.     Until these objectives are reached, the Bank reiterates its call for halting further forced
evictions, consistent with the Donor Statement and the NGO Response dated July 16, 2009, on
the eve of the Group 78 evictions and before the BKL events (see Annex 5).

75.     Table 1 below presents the Revised Action Plan, which has been updated to reflect the
status of the current relationship between the Government and the Bank and to follow up on the
Panel's findings.

76.     In parallel, the Country Team will prepare a short term Interim Strategy Note (ISN) in
lieu of a full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the aim of which would be to rebuild trust with
the Government and focus engagement on areas of mutual interest where there is a solid
implementation track record, a clear agreement on strategy going forward, and where risks can
be effectively identified and minimized. It is proposed that the ISN be presented to the Board
prior to the end of FY11.

                                     Table 1: Revised Management Action Plan


   No.                 Issues                                                          Actions

  Supporting the affected communities in BKL area (Updated from 2009 Response)

    1    Assessment of community needs         Based on agreed Terms of Reference (TORs) agreed with Government, a local NGO
         and mitigation measures.              (with support from an international urban development specialist) will begin a needs
                                               assessment of households affected by the BKL development in February 2011 (to be
                                               completed within 7 weeks).
    2    Adverse environmental impacts from    Management will continue to engage Government and the MPP to discuss cooperation
         filling of the lake.                  on the design of measures to mitigate adverse environmental impacts from the filling of
                                               BKL. However, action in this area will only be possible if a new dialogue on the BKL
                                               development is opened up with Government or the private sector.
    3    Financing measures that respond to    Management will continue to explore the possibility of supporting MPP initiatives that
         the needs of tenure insecure and      respond to the needs of tenure insecure and recently resettled communities from the
         recently resettled communities from   BKL area.
         the BKL area.




                                                                 22
                                                                                      Management Report and Recommendation



   No.                  Issues                                                         Actions

  Supporting the affected communities in Project areas (Updated from 2009 Response)

    4    Communities resettled or threatened Based on recently completed analysis, Management will offer support for initiatives that
         with eviction from Adjudication Areas respond to the needs of tenure insecure and recently resettled communities outside the
         outside BKL without proper            BKL area focusing on communities that were included in LMAP Adjudication Areas.
         compliance with policies.
    5    Improvement and enforcement of         Management will continue to pursue this dialogue in a multilateral environment, through
         resettlement policy and land dispute   the TWG-L, with targeted support on key issues from Senior Diplomats resident in
         resolution for the benefit of          Phnom Penh.
         communities at risk.

  Engagement Going Forward (New)

    6    Improving design of projects in the    In highly sensitive sectors, such as land, Management will support task teams to
         pipeline and the supervision of active improve risk assessment and realistic mitigation measures as part of ORAF, refrain
         projects.                              from preparing overly ambitious and unspecific Results Frameworks and M&E systems,
                                                and develop unambiguous and prudent safeguards resettlement frameworks (e.g.,
                                                EMF, RPF, and IPPF).
                                                Lessons learned from this review will be reflected in the LMAP Implementation
                                                Completion and Results Report and included in regional operational training for Bank
                                                staff and Government counterparts.




                                                      VIII. CONCLUSION

77.    Management believes that, despite the shortcomings acknowledged in its 2009 Response,
the Bank team has made every effort to apply its policies and procedures and to pursue its
mission statement in the context of the Project. Management and the Panel share the same
concern for the large number of people who continue to be under the threat of eviction in LMAP
Adjudication Areas in BKL, as well as in other areas of the country.

78.     Management will make every effort to implement the Action Plan to remedy the
deficiencies in the implementation of LMAP and to find ways to support activities aiming at
improving living conditions and livelihood opportunities for affected communities.

79.    Management proposes to report back to the Board on the implementation of the revised
Action Plan within 60 days of the Board Discussion of this Management Report and
Recommendation, and prior to the presentation of the ISN that will be prepared in lieu of a full
CAS. If there is continued lack of willingness to cooperate on addressing the BKL resettlement
issue, Management would anticipate reviewing all current and proposed support to the
Government in the land sector and carefully take into account the Government's position in
considering the magnitude and focus of future Bank support to Cambodia.




                                                                 23
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project




                                                  24
                                                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation


                                                                      ANNEX 1

                                                           FINDINGS AND COMMENTS

    Management's proposed actions addressing the Findings set forth in this Matrix are presented in
    Section VII of the main text: "Management's Action Plan in Response to the Findings."


                                                                       IR1
  No.                               Finding                           Para                                        Comment
                                                                      No.
Claim that events in BKL are linked to LMAP.
        1.    The Panel finds that the BKL area is within a           110-        Comment: Management confirms its understanding, as stated in the MR
              Project province and was declared for adjudication      116         (Management Response; MR 51), that the Sras Chok Adjudication Area
              under LMAP, hence activities relating to the                        was an area in which the Project was carrying out systematic land titling
              verification of land tenure and ownership                           and therefore the agreed LMAP procedures for systematic adjudication
              subsequent to the notice of adjudication are directly               (including the environmental and social guidelines) would apply.
              linked to Project. This is consistent with
              Management's position.
Claim that the residents of BKL were denied adjudication of their property claims under LMAP.
        2.    It is the Panel's view that parts of the BKL area may   117-        Comment: Management would like to reiterate its position as stated in
              be eligible for consideration of titling for private    131;        the MR (50) ­ "Incomplete information concerning the Sras Chok
              ownership under the adjudication procedures of          132-        adjudication process makes it difficult to assess in detail its compliance
              LMAP.                                                   141         with Sub-Decree 46. Based on available information, however,
                                                                                  Management believes that residents in the Adjudication Area of BKL
              The Panel concurs with Management that residents                    were not given a sufficient opportunity to present claims regarding their
              in the BKL area were denied access to a due                         possession of the land and to have those claims adjudicated in
              process of adjudication of their property claims.                   accordance with prescribed procedures."
        3.    The Panel finds that residents of the BKL area were     132-        Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel findings that
              justified in expecting that their claims to land were   141         Requesters' claims were eligible for consideration under agreed
              eligible for consideration under systematic land                    procedures. See item 2, above.
              titling and, furthermore, that all land claims in the
              commune were to be adjudicated in accordance
              with procedures and processes for adjudication of
              property claims, agreed between the Government,
              the Bank and the Development Partners supporting
              LMAP.

        4.    The Panel notes that Sub-Decree 46 and the              142-        Comment: Management concurs with the Panel's finding. However,
              adjudication procedures developed under LMAP do         148         Management would like to clarify that Article 7 (b) of the referenced sub-
              not include any provisions for excising portions of a               decree gives the authority to the Adjudication Officer to demarcate
              declared adjudication area once the process has                     boundaries of disputed parcels in the absence of agreement among the
              legally started.                                                    parties. From this perspective the problem in the BKL area was not so
                                                                                  much that areas were excised but that the LMAP Land Registration
                                                                                  Teams apparently did not collect or review all available evidence on the
                                                                                  villagers' claims and, although BKL village areas were marked as having
                                                                                  "unknown" ownership (indicating that the State claim was disputed), there
                                                                                  is no indication that the Administrative Commission either reviewed BKL
                                                                                  villagers' claims or referred them to the National Cadastral Commission
                                                                                  (as required under Article 12 of the same Sub-Decree). It appears that
                                                                                  because no referral was made, the State was never required to defend its
                                                                                  de facto claim that the BKL area was State Public Land (see also Item 9).



    1
             IR = Inspection Panel Report.


                                                                             25
 Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


                                                                   IR1
No.                           Finding                             Para                                        Comment
                                                                  No.

  5.   The Panel notes that there is no reference in any          149-        Comment: Management concurs with the Panel's observation.
       key Project documents to the principles for                154         However, Management would like to clarify that it was not the intent of
       determining `areas where disputes are likely' or                       the Project design to exclude areas subject to dispute from titling. It was
       procedures for how to excise such areas from                           recognized that the adjudication of titles is, by its very nature, virtually
       systematic land titling.                                               certain to encounter disputes (especially in the Cambodia context) and
                                                                              the Project was designed to address them ­ either in the field if possible
                                                                              or by directing them to suitable dispute resolution mechanisms. In
                                                                              determining where to target Project activities, given limited resources and
                                                                              the need to build capacity in a weak institution, it was in Management's
                                                                              view a reasonable exercise of judgment to select areas where the level of
                                                                              disputes was relatively low. It is important to distinguish between: (a) a
                                                                              decision on whether or not to declare an Adjudication Area; and (b) a
                                                                              failure, once such an area has been declared, to carry out the
                                                                              adjudication process in accordance with the required procedures
                                                                              (including referral to dispute resolution mechanisms). It was the latter
                                                                              that occurred at BKL. There are no references in Project documents to
                                                                              excluding households or plots from the systematic titling process on the
                                                                              basis that they are involved in disputes. The position in both the Project
                                                                              documents and Cambodian law is that such disputes are to be resolved
                                                                              through systematic titling and associated dispute resolution processes.
  6.   The Panel notes that the decision not to support the       155-        Comment: Management acknowledges that such terms are not formally
       regularization of informal settlements under the           156         defined in the PAD or the DCA, but considers that a formal definition was
       Project is not accompanied, in the PAD or the DCA,                     not needed for the purpose that these terms have in the Project
       with formal definitions of the terms `informal settler',               documents. The Panel is correct to observe (IR 156) that even people
       `informal settlement' or `squatter'.                                   who prima facie seem to be illegally occupying land are entitled to
                                                                              adjudication of their claims. In Management's view, however, Project
                                                                              design was consistent with this observation. References to the Project
                                                                              not supporting the regularization of informal settlements did not imply that
                                                                              the Project was designed to exclude peoples' claims on the basis of an a
                                                                              priori judgment that they were "informal" or "squatters." Instead, these
                                                                              references are grounded in the fact that, if a person were legitimately
                                                                              determined to be an informal settler, then the Project would not be able to
                                                                              issue a title unless and until the Government decided to allocate the land
                                                                              to that person. There is a distinction between land titling operations
                                                                              (which clarify and reflect the existing legal rights of people) and the
                                                                              regularization of informal settlements (which upgrade people's rights).
                                                                              LMAP was designed for the former, not the latter.
  7.   It is the Panel's understanding that the primary           155-        Comment: Management would like to clarify that the Project
       objective of the Project was, in the absence of clear      156         development objectives were "to improve the security of land tenure for
       land classification boundaries, to determine the                       urban and agricultural land holders and to promote the development of
       legality of any claims to land, including claims by                    efficient land markets." Management acknowledges the importance of
       people who prima facie seem to be illegally                            determining the legality of any claims to land, including those by people
       occupying land, through an adjudication process.                       who prima facie were occupying land illegally. See Item 6, above.
                                                                              However, the PAD highlighted the difficulties likely to be encountered in
                                                                              adjudicating such claims.

  8.   Despite the statement in the PAD that the Project          157-        Comment: Management agrees that LMAP's coordination with and
       would coordinate closely with the UNCHS/UNDP               158         support to the parallel UNCHS/UNDP informal settlements program was
       program dealing with informal settlers and                             not as close as anticipated at the time of Project design. Management
       squatters, the Panel was unable to obtain any                          acknowledges that supervision of LMAP did not raise with MLMUPC
       evidence during its investigation that any such                        concerns about how to fill the gap when the informal settlements program
       coordination or support was provided by the Project                    came to an end in 2004.
       to UNCHS/UNDP program prior to it being ended in
       2004, nor was any evidence obtained of a change                        Management also acknowledges that LMAP did not adapt its approach
       in approach towards informal settlements following                     towards informal settlements in the post UNCHS/UNDP program period
       this date.                                                             and, as noted previously in the 2009 Response, "... for the last five years




                                                                         26
                                                                                               Management Report and Recommendation


                                                                   IR1
No.                            Finding                            Para                                         Comment
                                                                  No.

                                                                              there has been no program to regularize tenure in informal settlements in
                                                                              a manner that would allow them to be titled under the [LMAP] Project."
                                                                              (MR 36)

                                                                              The inclusion of informal settlements in the proposed LMAP II was
                                                                              discussed with the NGOs ­ Bridges Across Borders South East Asia,
                                                                              (BABSEA), Community Legal Education Center (CLEC), Center on
                                                                              Housing Rights and Evictions (COHRE) and Jesuit Refugee Service-
                                                                              Cambodia (JRSC) ­ in November and December 2008; however, this
                                                                              discussion was cut short after violent evictions occurred in Phnom Penh
                                                                              in January 2009 and efforts to address BKL residents' concerns reached
                                                                              an impasse in August 2009.
  9.    The Panel concurs with the ERM's findings that the        159-        Comment: Management concurs that there is uncertainty in many parts
        lack of State land mapping has contributed to the         163         of Cambodia as to the location and classification of State land. The State
        de facto determination of State land (public and                      land mapping process under Component 5 of the Project was intended to
        private) without applying the LMAP adjudication                       help address this although, as noted in the 2009 Response (MR 68), both
        process.                                                              the design and implementation of the Component were problematic and
                                                                              in the end it was rated as "unsatisfactory." However, Management also
                                                                              observes that under the Land Law and relevant sub-decrees, the prior
                                                                              mapping of State land is not a necessary condition for the proper
                                                                              adjudication of rights to individual parcels. If done correctly, adjudication
                                                                              itself would require a determination as to the classification of a particular
                                                                              parcel, which could be carried out even in the absence of maps. Hence,
                                                                              while State land mapping would have been desirable and would have
                                                                              expedited land titling, it is not clear that its absence contributed to de
                                                                              facto determination of State land classification. On the contrary, given
                                                                              what is known about the timeline of negotiations regarding the BKL lease,
                                                                              it is clear that a de facto determination that the area was State land
                                                                              occurred well prior to systematic titling. From the perspective of LMAP,
                                                                              the problem was that the State was not required to hold its de facto claim
                                                                              up for contest as the process of systematic titling requires (SD 46, Art.
                                                                              12), and as such that the required dispute resolution processes were not
                                                                              triggered (see also Item 5).
  10.   The Panel finds that the Project's design is not          164-        Comment: Management would like to note that the vision of the Land
        clear about the Project's strategy both with respect      169         Law and the LAMDP, of which the Project was the first phase, was
        to determining areas for systematic land titling (i.e.,               eventually to cover the entire country. As noted in the 2009 Response,
        adjudication areas) and to dealing with disputes                      the Project was designed to be implemented sequentially, working first in
        between State entities and private individuals                        selected Adjudication Areas and then moving on to others. LMAP
        during adjudication process.                                          Adjudication Areas were typically entire communes, and their selection
                                                                              was based on decisions made at local government level. It was not
                                                                              within the capacity (or budget) of the Project to cover all communes
                                                                              within Project provinces at once, or even during the life of the Project. In
                                                                              determining where to target Project activities, given the limited resources
                                                                              and the need to build capacity in a weak institution, it was in
                                                                              Management's view a reasonable exercise of judgment to start the
                                                                              process in areas where the level of disputes was relatively low. The
                                                                              selection of Adjudication Areas, however, did not represent an exclusion
                                                                              of those areas that were not selected; systematic titling was intended
                                                                              eventually to cover the whole country.

                                                                              With respect to dealing with disputes between State entities and private
                                                                              individuals during the adjudication process, Project design recognized the
                                                                              importance of transparent adjudication processes, accessible dispute
                                                                              resolution mechanisms, and provision of legal assistance to strengthen
                                                                              the ability of individuals to make effective use of such mechanisms.
                                                                              Indeed a potential lack of commitment to ensuring the functioning of the




                                                                         27
 Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


                                                                 IR1
No.                           Finding                           Para                                        Comment
                                                                No.

                                                                            dispute resolution mechanism was identified as a key risk in the PAD.
                                                                            While the Project succeeded in supporting the establishment of Cadastral
                                                                            Commissions for land dispute resolution little progress was made in
                                                                            relation to the capacity of the system to deal with cases involving
                                                                            powerful interests (including those of the State). As acknowledged in the
                                                                            2009 Response it is evident that the risk relating to dispute resolution
                                                                            was not carefully enough monitored as the "focus of implementation
                                                                            shifted towards fiduciary aspects and key outputs, notably the issuance
                                                                            of titles" (MR 67).
  11.   The Panel finds that these ambiguities in the           170         With respect to whether supposed design flaws contributed to the harm
        Project's design in part contributed to the harm that               that the Requesters are facing, Management wishes to emphasize that
        the Requesters are facing.                                          the primary cause of harm or risk of harm to the Requesters is eviction or
                                                                            threatened eviction from the BKL area. These evictions were carried out,
                                                                            and continue to be carried out, by the MPP and the BKL area developer
                                                                            (Shukaku, Inc.), based on the Government's assertion that the land in
                                                                            question is State land that has legitimately been leased to the developer
                                                                            and the Requesters do not have possession rights. Management has not
                                                                            endorsed this assertion and, as noted in the 2009 Response, has
                                                                            concluded that the actions of the Government were not consistent with its
                                                                            obligations under the RPF or DCA.

                                                                            While the evictions have occurred within an LMAP Adjudication Area,
                                                                            Management notes that it has found no evidence to suggest that the
                                                                            Project was used as a vehicle for carrying out or justifying the evictions.
                                                                            The Government did not use LMAP as an instrument to assert or confirm
                                                                            ownership over the area. Instead, the Government maintains that its
                                                                            actions were outside the scope of the Project. Furthermore, as reported
                                                                            in the 2009 Response and confirmed by the Panel, Government evictions
                                                                            have also occurred in recent years in many other parts of Cambodia,
                                                                            both within and outside Project provinces and LMAP Adjudication Areas.
                                                                            Management has found no basis for concluding that LMAP contributed to
                                                                            evictions. Based on available data, the reported incidence of land
                                                                            disputes inside and outside Adjudication Areas appears to be roughly
                                                                            equal.

                                                                            In offering these observations, Management does not intend to diminish
                                                                            the severity of the harm suffered by the Requesters. Both the 2009
                                                                            Response and the Panel's Report have concluded that the Requesters
                                                                            suffered serious harm or the threat of harm. Both provide detailed
                                                                            assessments of how Project procedures and policy frameworks intended
                                                                            to help avoid or mitigate such harm were not adequately deployed, and
                                                                            that remedial action by the Government is required under its obligations
                                                                            defined in the DCA. Nevertheless, Management considers it important
                                                                            that Bank and Project shortcomings are viewed from an appropriate
                                                                            perspective in terms of characterizing the role these shortcomings may
                                                                            have played in the harm that has occurred.

                                                                            In this respect, Management notes that the Board's Resolution and
                                                                            Clarifications pertaining to the Panel provide helpful guidance. The 1999
                                                                            Clarification states at paragraphs 13 and 14: "the Panel will discuss in its
                                                                            written report only those material adverse effects, alleged in the request,
                                                                            that have totally or partially resulted from serious Bank failure of
                                                                            compliance with its policies and procedures (...) For assessing material
                                                                            adverse effect, the without-project situation should be used as the base
                                                                            case for comparison, taking into account what baseline information may
                                                                            be available. Non-accomplishments and unfulfilled expectations that do
                                                                            not generate a material deterioration compared to the without-project



                                                                       28
                                                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation


                                                                     IR1
No.                               Finding                           Para                                         Comment
                                                                    No.

                                                                                situation will not be considered as a material adverse effect for this
                                                                                purpose..."2

                                                                                Despite what could be considered LMAP's "non-accomplishments and
                                                                                unfulfilled expectations," it is Management's view that the Bank's failures
                                                                                neither created nor exacerbated a risk of eviction beyond the risk that
                                                                                would have existed in the absence of the Project. LMAP clearly did not
                                                                                live up to its promise and potential in terms of improving tenure security
                                                                                for residents of the BKL area. Both the 2009 Response and the Panel's
                                                                                Report leave little doubt that with respect to BKL residents, the benefits
                                                                                and protections provided by LMAP fell short of expectations and that
                                                                                Management was unable to prevent or mitigate the harm that occurred.
                                                                                As noted in the 2009 Response, "Management considers that the
                                                                                communities of BKL did not benefit from the protection provided under
                                                                                the Project's design." At the same time, it should be recalled that the
                                                                                request for early cancellation of the Credit by the Government was
                                                                                prompted by Management's request to the Government to mutually
                                                                                suspend Project implementation and allow time to reach consensus on
                                                                                how to address the concerns of BKL residents. The Government's
                                                                                continuing actions at BKL and elsewhere lend support to the view that the
                                                                                Project's shortcomings did not cause or compound the risk of evictions or
                                                                                the subsequent treatment of those evicted.
     12.    Consequently, the Panel finds that although the         164-        Comment: Management previously recognized (MR 34) that "three risks
            risks associated with Project were properly             170         identified in the Critical Risks matrix of the PAD are directly relevant [in
            identified, Management did not comply with OMS                      this case]... (a) that governance does not improve; (b) that Government
            2.20 on Project Appraisal with respect to                           lacks commitment to ensuring the functioning of the dispute resolution
            addressing these risks.                                             mechanism; and (c) that Government entities and other stakeholders are
                                                                                not able to reach agreement on the process of land classification. After
                                                                                more than seven years of Project implementation, it is evident that these
                                                                                risks did indeed materialize."

                                                                                Management also recognized previously (MR 34) that while the PAD
                                                                                assumed that "the risk of not reaching agreement on the process of land
                                                                                classification could be overcome by supporting a `consultation process to
                                                                                build broad consensus for decisions' and `technical assistance to the
                                                                                council of land policy to reach consensus among the various government
                                                                                agencies'...," in hindsight this assumption is seen as unrealistic (see also
                                                                                Item 10).. and Management recognized (MR 34) that "a more detailed
                                                                                analysis of the political economy context would likely have identified this
                                                                                view as overly optimistic and that: (a) success in this respect depended
                                                                                on high-level inter-agency coordination; (b) consultation would not
                                                                                necessarily lead to consensus; and (c) numerous actors had strong
                                                                                incentives not to proceed with a transparent and public interest based
                                                                                classification and registration of State land." Management also notes that
                                                                                recent analysis of eviction trends in Cambodia over the past 12 years
                                                                                show a repeated pattern ­ evictions peak in the period following elections
                                                                                and are kept at low levels in the period preceding elections.

     13.    The Panel finds that Management's supervision of        171-        Comment: Management previously acknowledged (MR 47) that "... even
            the Project for several years overlooked the critical   177         though the LMAP was treated as a high-risk project and thus significant
            issue of adjudicating private claims on land claimed                resources were dedicated to its preparation and supervision, there were
            by State. This failure of Management, in the Panel's                specific shortcomings in supervising: (a) the implementation of one
            view, contributed to the events in the BKL area and                 component (i.e., land management) and two sub-components (i.e.,
            to the harm that the Requesters are facing.                         information dissemination & community participation, and legal



 2
           http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTINSPECTIONPANEL/Resources/1999ClarificationoftheBoard.pdf


                                                                           29
 Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


                                                               IR1
No.                           Finding                         Para                                        Comment
                                                              No.

        Management's supervision of this critical issue did               assistance for the disadvantaged); and (b) the application of safeguards."
        not meet requirements of OP/BP 13.05.
                                                                          Also as noted in the Management Response (MR 67) following the MTR
                                                                          "... the focus of implementation shifted towards fiduciary aspects ...
                                                                          which ultimately led to the suspension of disbursements from the Credit
                                                                          in June 2006."

                                                                          Management acknowledges that the Project was not implemented in
                                                                          accordance with the design, and that deviations should have been caught
                                                                          and responded to sooner. As indicated in the 2009 Response (Annex 1,
                                                                          Item 12) "Management considers that the communities of BKL did not
                                                                          benefit from the protection provided under the Project's design" but
                                                                          Management does not consider that the Bank's failures either created or
                                                                          exacerbated a risk of eviction beyond the risk that would have existed in
                                                                          the absence of the Project (see also Items 20 and 29).

  14.   The Panel finds that Management failed to act on      178-        Comment: Management acknowledged in the 2009 Response that it
        information when the problems arising in the BKL      180         should have been more proactive in addressing safeguard issues and
        area were first brought to its attention, and that                specifically the evictions and threats of eviction that occurred throughout
        Management's supervision in this respect was not                  the Project life.
        consistent with the requirements of OP/BP 13.05.
                                                                          Management should have made a more concerted effort to address the
                                                                          weaknesses in the dispute resolution mechanisms, although it is not clear
                                                                          that these efforts would have been successful (given the weak state of
                                                                          the rule of law and the continuing challenges to deal with corruption in
                                                                          Cambodia).

                                                                          Management also recognized "that several opportunities were missed to
                                                                          restructure the Project" (MR 69), to address implementation issues as
                                                                          they arose and to respond to the rapidly changing circumstances on the
                                                                          ground (e.g., the unanticipated exponential growth of land values and
                                                                          resulting land conflicts in Cambodia).

                                                                          However, Management would like to reiterate that it acted promptly when
                                                                          problems arising in the BKL area were brought to its attention.

                                                                          In November 2008, the Task Team learned of NGO concerns about
                                                                          LMAP's failure to address the situation of vulnerable communities and
                                                                          the Team engaged with NGOs who focused attention on how to improve
                                                                          the design of LMAP II. As noted in the 2009 Response (MR 56) - "The
                                                                          Task Team continued a constructive dialogue with the NGOs and, in the
                                                                          light of the NGOs' concerns, facilitated on January 20, 2009 a meeting of
                                                                          the NGOs with the TWG-L. During this meeting, the NGOs advocated
                                                                          that poor and vulnerable communities ­ particularly in urban areas ­
                                                                          were at disadvantage to obtain land titles and should receive specific
                                                                          support through the Project."

                                                                          As detailed in the 2009 Response, once Management realized in early
                                                                          2009 that there was an apparent acceleration of evictions, and thus
                                                                          potential harm to Project-affected persons, it reacted promptly:
                                                                          · It followed a multi-pronged approach including dialogue with
                                                                            Government, NGOs and community members. It fielded the ERM
                                                                            mission and, in light of the mission's findings, advocated with
                                                                            Government for a moratorium on evictions and the development of a
                                                                            national resettlement framework.
                                                                          · It took the lead in collaboration with other Development Partners in the
                                                                            issuance of a joint public statement calling for a halt to evictions of
                                                                            Cambodia's urban poor (see Annex 5).



                                                                     30
                                                                                               Management Report and Recommendation


                                                                   IR1
  No.                            Finding                          Para                                        Comment
                                                                  No.

                                                                              · It sanctioned a Safeguards Review Mission to develop a mutual
                                                                                understanding with Government on the process to be followed in the
                                                                                BKL area.
                                                                              · It relayed to high levels of Government on several occasions that
                                                                                Government was obliged under the DCA to comply with the Bank's
                                                                                Resettlement Policy and the Project's RPF.
                                                                              · It proposed that the Bank and the Government jointly agree to suspend
                                                                                the Project while the policy framework was improved.
                                                                              · It offered to allocate IDA resources to properly resettle the BKL
                                                                                communities.
     15.   The Panel finds that Management's recent               181-        Comment: Management has repeatedly and publicly expressed its
           supervision of Project, on issues raised by the        183         concern over the fate of the Requesters and has met with them
           Request, complies with Bank Policy on Project                      frequently to understand and discuss the strategy for overcoming their
           Supervision OP/BP 13.05. However, the Panel                        situation. Management acknowledges the Panel's finding on compliance
           concurs with the Requesters' assessment that ... "it               with OP/BP 13.05 since January 2009.
           is evident that the actions taken by the Bank
           Management were too late to prevent the harms                      In Management's view, no evidence has been presented that earlier
           now being done."                                                   actions by the Bank would have prevented the particular harms that the
                                                                              Requesters are now suffering. In its 2009 Response, Management
                                                                              acknowledged that it was slower than it should have been in recognizing
                                                                              linkages between the threatened evictions at BKL and the Government's
                                                                              obligations under the RPF and in communicating with the Government on
                                                                              this point. Management has acknowledged that the RPF triggers were
                                                                              ambiguously defined and that, because of the inherent complexity of the
                                                                              situation, it required substantial internal discussion to reach a consensus
                                                                              on the applicability of the RPF in the BKL case. However, once its
                                                                              obligations in relation to the RPF were clarified, Government indicated
                                                                              that it would not have borrowed if these conditions had been fully
                                                                              understood at the outset. This response suggests that earlier action on
                                                                              Management's part is unlikely to have led the Government to
                                                                              acknowledge that the RPF applies to the Requesters or otherwise to
                                                                              improve the way they were resettled.

                                                                              The early cancellation of the Project by the Government was prompted
                                                                              by Management's request to the Government to mutually suspend
                                                                              Project implementation and allow time to reach consensus on how to
                                                                              address the concerns of BKL residents. Management's subsequent
                                                                              efforts to address the needs of the Requesters have received only
                                                                              intermittent support from within the Government (see also Item 20
                                                                              below).
Claim that residents of BKL were displaced in violation of agreed policies for involuntary resettlement.
     16.   The Panel finds that the decision to prepare a         184-        Comment: Management concurs with the Panel's finding.
           Resettlement Policy Framework complied with the        194
           provisions of applicable policy ­ OD 4.30. The
           Panel commends Management for broadening the
           range of situations where Policy would apply,
           reflecting new thinking within Bank at the time
           regarding the proper application of the Bank's
           safeguards.

     17.   The Panel finds that there are several ambiguities     195-        Comment: Management concurs that there are several ambiguities
           with respect to how the RPF should be triggered        203         concerning the triggering and application of the RPF. As previously
           and applied. The Panel finds that the design of the                noted (MR 52), Management acknowledged that a "... lack of specificity"
           RPF fell short of the provisions anticipated in OD                 in the Project documents concerning resettlement and "apparent absence
           4.30 with respect to "planning principles,                         of detailed discussions of the reach of the RPF, either during design or
           institutional arrangements, and design criteria."                  implementation" contributed to the disagreement between Management



                                                                         31
 Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


                                                                 IR1
No.                           Finding                           Para                                         Comment
                                                                No.

                                                                            and the Government as to the scope of Government's obligations under
                                                                            the RPF. However, Management maintains that the terms of the RPF
                                                                            are sufficiently clear to conclude that they apply to the situation at BKL,
                                                                            as has been expressed by Management to Government and in the MR
                                                                            and as the Panel itself finds in its Investigation Report.
  18.   The Panel finds that Management's attention to          204-        Comment: As previously noted (MR 72), "In retrospect, Management
        social consequences of land titling, including          211         recognizes that supervision of safeguards and other social measures
        potential evictions, was not systematic and suffered                should have been more robust."
        from a lack of attention from social safeguard
        specialists. It is a matter of concern that several
        supervision missions concluded that there had
        been no situation requiring application of Social and
        Environmental Safeguards, including RPF,
        apparently without any careful scrutiny of matter.

  19.   Panel finds evidence in supervision records that        210-        Comment: Management agrees that inadequate engagement on
        Management on several occasions raised issues           211         safeguard issues contributed to problems in the BKL area indirectly
        related to State land management potentially                        because the obligations of the Government may not have been made
        relevant for application of the RPF. Panel                          sufficiently clear. Management previously acknowledged "that a lack of
        commends Bank for pursuing this difficult policy                    specificity in the Project documents and the apparent absence of detailed
        issue in Cambodian context, which is both                           discussions of the reach of the RPF, either during design or
        politically sensitive and complex. However, follow-                 implementation, may have contributed to Government's understanding of
        up of these issues was inadequate and contributed                   its obligations" (MR 52).
        to problems in BKL area. This is not in compliance
        with the provisions of OP/BP 13.05 on Project                       Management acknowledges that the follow up of safeguard issues could
        Supervision.                                                        have been more robust but would like to clarify that a senior safeguards
                                                                            specialist participated in preparations for the LMAP MTR (September
        Supervision reports for the Project do not report                   2004), and in both the ERM (April 2009) and the Safeguards Review
        inclusion of a safeguards specialist in any of the                  Mission (August 2009).
        supervision missions, except for the first mission in
        May 2002.                                                           The Safeguards Secretariat completed a thematic review of the
                                                                            Cambodia Portfolio in October 2009 in close collaboration with the
                                                                            country and respective sector units. The main objective of the review
                                                                            was to assess the safeguards performance of the Cambodia portfolio.
                                                                            The report made several recommendations for improving performance in
                                                                            the current portfolio and for improving the management of safeguards
                                                                            risks in future projects.

                                                                            Nine consultants from Cambodia (5 social and 4 environmental)
                                                                            participated in the recently completed "Safeguards Training for
                                                                            Consultants" in Bangkok on October 22-26, 2010.

                                                                            A three day "Environmental and Social Safeguards Training for Project
                                                                            Implementing Units (PIUs)" was delivered in Phnom Penh, December 15-
                                                                            17, 2010. The 35 participants included project managers, social and
                                                                            environmental safeguard officers, and engineers who are directly
                                                                            involved in the preparation and implementation of social and
                                                                            environmental safeguards at national and sub-national levels.
  20.   The Panel finds that the failure of Management to       212-        Comment: Management's position on the applicability of the RPF is
        ensure application of the Resettlement Policy           217         clearly stated in the MR (Annex 1, Item 5): "Management concurs that the
        Framework was not in compliance with OD 4.30                        Borrower is obligated to apply the RPF described in the ESG to
        and with OP/BP 13.05 on Project Supervision.                        displacements or threatened displacements from the Sras Chok
                                                                            adjudication area. Under these circumstances, the Government should
                                                                            have prepared resettlement plans for Bank review and approval."
                                                                            Management's efforts to ensure RPF application even after Project
                                                                            closure are described in detail in the MR and updated in this Report (see




                                                                       32
                                                                                           Management Report and Recommendation


                                                               IR1
No.                           Finding                         Para                                        Comment
                                                              No.

                                                                          Section VII of this report and Annex 2).

                                                                          Management notes that its insistence on this issue precipitated
                                                                          Government's decision to close the Project prematurely. Management
                                                                          regrets that further dialogue was cut short by an inability to find common
                                                                          ground between the Bank, Development Partners, the Government and
                                                                          civil society groups advocating on land issues.
  21.   Overall, Panel is of view that Bank Management        218-        Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's view that serious
        should have detected serious problems faced by        233         problems faced by people in the BKL area could have been identified
        people in BKL area at an earlier stage, and                       earlier but would like to clarify that no threats of eviction are known to
        considered appropriate actions. Failing to do so                  have been reported prior to August 2008. To the contrary, up until that
        was not in compliance with Bank Policy on Project                 point local officials were offering (false) assurances that there would be
        Supervision.                                                      no evictions, and were publicly referencing a clause in the BKL lease that
                                                                          required the developer, Shukaku Inc., to provide on-site resettlement
                                                                          options for BKL residents (IR 96).

                                                                          As noted in the Request for Inspection, "... in 2008 [August], when the
                                                                          developer began its works, residents of the community started facing
                                                                          pressure and intimidation to leave the area and, a year later [August
                                                                          2009], many families received formal eviction notices" (Request for
                                                                          Inspection, pg 2). Of the approximately 20,000 people who lived there, it
                                                                          is estimated that half have already been resettled or forced to move due
                                                                          to site preparation activities and associated flooding since the developer
                                                                          began operations in the area in August 2008. Formal eviction notices
                                                                          were first delivered to Villages 2 and 4 in August 2009 and the most
                                                                          recent eviction notice was given to residents in Villages 22 and 24 in
                                                                          November 2010.

                                                                          NGO representatives first queried the adjudication status in "the Boeung
                                                                          Kak Area of Phnom Penh" in a letter dated January 18, 2009 and raised
                                                                          concerns about LMAP and evictions in a letter dated February 12, 2009.
                                                                          (MR Annex 4, Detailed Timeline on the BKL Evictions and the Bank's
                                                                          Response, pg 78).

                                                                          Management would like to clarify that its decision to undertake an
                                                                          Enhanced Review of LMAP was prompted by an apparent acceleration of
                                                                          evictions in January 2009. As mentioned in the MR: "In the early morning
                                                                          of January 24, 2009, armed police forcibly evicted residents from another
                                                                          urban settlement known as Dey Krahorm." In mid-February, NGOs
                                                                          asked to meet with Bank Management to discuss concerns about the
                                                                          inability of poor residents of the Dey Krahorm communities to access the
                                                                          titling system before their eviction. During the same month, one NGO
                                                                          wrote to Management about a neighboring community, "Group 78" that
                                                                          was also threatened with eviction.
  22.   The Panel finds that the RPF is generally in          218-        Comment: Management concurs with the Panel's finding. Management
        compliance with OD 4.30. There is, however, a lack    234         has also reported on the concerted efforts to maintain dialogue with
        of guidance as to rehabilitation and income                       Government and the Requesters on the actions taken to address harms
        restoration activities that, according to the RPF,                since the MR. (see main text from paragraph 43 onwards. See also
        should have been detailed in a resettlement plan.                 Annexes 2 and 4).

  23.   The Panel finds that the process of carrying out      218-        Comment: Management has not had an opportunity to review actual
        evictions in the BKL area, the level of               235         compensation, offered or paid, or the standard of resettlement sites due
        compensation, and the standard of resettlement                    to the Government's decision to prematurely close the Project. As stated
        sites do not follow the principles laid down by the               in the 2009 Response, "... it appears that the proposed packages were
        RPF and the related provisions of OD 4.30.                        not equivalent to what the residents would have received had the RPF
                                                                          been applied." (MR 79)




                                                                     33
    Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


                                                                    IR1
  No.                            Finding                           Para                                         Comment
                                                                   No.


                                                                               Subsequent efforts to develop a resettlement project for Phnom Penh,
                                                                               including former BKL residents, have been rejected by Government to
                                                                               date (see main text, paragraph 43 and Annex 2).
Claim that the Titling Process Adopted By the Project Weakens Pre-existing Tenure Rights
     24.   The Panel notes that the Project undoubtedly has        236-        Comment: Management acknowledges recognition of this important
           benefitted approximately 1 million households and       248         achievement and notes that the number of LMAP title recipients through
           recognizes this important achievement of LMAP.                      September 2009 is 1.24 million [Source: LMAP Adjudication Data
                                                                               through September 2009 provided November 2, 2010]

     25.   The Panel finds that design flaws in the Project led    249-        Comment: See Items 5-7, above. Management would like to reiterate
           to the arbitrary exclusion of lands from titling        263         that within Adjudication Areas the Project was not designed to exclude
           process and that this denied residents, especially                  lands subject to disputes but to resolve such disputes where possible at
           the poor and vulnerable, the opportunity to claim                   field level and to facilitate the resolution of more serious disputes through
           and formalize their pre-existing rights through the                 other mechanisms.
           adjudication process under LMAP.
                                                                               Management has previously recognized "... that attention had shifted
                                                                               towards fiduciary aspects and the issuance of titles, and that it missed
                                                                               opportunities to engage the Government on the dispute resolution
                                                                               mechanisms in the Project and on how to respond to changing
                                                                               circumstances (e.g., the unanticipated exponential growth of land values
                                                                               and resulting land conflicts in Phnom Penh)." (MR, p. vii)

     26.   Panel finds that Management failed to acknowledge       264-        Comment: See Item 6, above.
           that terms like `squatter' and `informal settlements'   265
           are subjective until determined in fact through
           process of adjudication.
     27.   These design flaws made it difficult for Bank           264-        Comment: Management would like to clarify that while the overall goals
           Management to achieve the stated objectives of          265         of LMAP were to reduce poverty, promote social stability, and stimulate
           Project related to poverty reduction and providing                  economic development, the specific objectives of the Project were to
           tenure security for poor, and thus did not comply                   improve land tenure security and promote the development of efficient
           with OMS 2.20.                                                      land markets. Systematic titling by definition is not targeted at the
                                                                               household level and the PDOs of the Project did not include "poverty
                                                                               reduction" or specific targets with respect to the poor (see Item 7 above).

                                                                               Management also would like to clarify that based on a Beneficiary
                                                                               Assessment and recent analysis undertaken during preparation of the
                                                                               Implementation Completion and Results Report it appears that the
                                                                               Project contributed to progress on its specific objectives. Titling ­
                                                                               targeted towards ordinary rural Cambodians ­ is widely perceived as
                                                                               having contributed to improved land tenure security.
                                                                               Management also recognizes that although LMAP's design assumed the
                                                                               Project would deliver a roughly equal number of titles in urban and rural
                                                                               areas, this balance was not achieved. At the time of Project closure, 1.58
                                                                               million plots had been surveyed and approximately 1.24 million titles
                                                                               (76%) had been distributed to beneficiaries; 92% of titles were for rural
                                                                               plots and only 8% were in urban areas.

     28.   The Panel finds that not all measures specifically      266-        Comment: Management previously acknowledged that, "despite
           designed to support poor and vulnerable people          270         investing significant time and resources in supervision during
           were implemented as planned. The Panel finds that                   implementation, following the Mid-term Review (MTR), both Project
           Management did not adequately follow up Project                     performance and the relationship with the Ministry began to deteriorate
           commitments to strengthen public awareness and                      and the focus of implementation shifted towards fiduciary aspects and
           community participation, to ensure legal protection                 key outputs, most notably the issuance of titles" (MR 65-67).
           to residents exposed to risk of eviction, and to
           provide adequate access to dispute resolution                       Management also previously recognized "shortcomings in supervising the




                                                                          34
                                                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation


                                                                     IR1
  No.                            Finding                            Para                                        Comment
                                                                    No.

           mechanisms. This was not in compliance with                          implementation of Sub-component 3(a) - Information Dissemination and
           OP/BP 13.05.                                                         Community Participation; Sub-component 4(c) - Legal Assistance for the
                                                                                Disadvantaged; and Component 5 - Land Management." (MR 68)

                                                                                Despite repeated procurement attempts, no NGOs were hired to support
                                                                                public awareness and community participation or to provide legal
                                                                                assistance services (MR Annexes 8A and 8B). As Management noted in
                                                                                the MR (Annex 1, Items 6 and 7) "While the proposed involvement of
                                                                                NGOs in Project implementation was innovative at the time the Project
                                                                                was designed, the mechanism to implement it (i.e., contracting by the
                                                                                PMO) was not adapted to the country circumstances."
Claim that other communities in Project provinces are experiencing forced evictions.
     29.   The Panel notes that forced evictions are not new        271-        Comment: Management agrees that, especially as land prices
           in Cambodia and, as noted in the Bank's Poverty          276         increased, forced evictions became a key issue and should have been
           Assessment in Cambodia, have been ongoing in                         addressed sooner.
           Phnom Penh since well before preparation of
           Project. Since the Project included major urban                      At the time of LMAP design there was an ambitious parallel program to
           settlements including Phnom Penh among its                           address informal settlements (focused on Phnom Penh) which was
           Project provinces, this was a significant reputational               publically supported by the Cambodian Prime Minister. The sudden end
           risk for the Bank. The Panel notes that Project                      of the informal settlements program in 2004 left an important gap that
           design did not adequately address this important                     Management has acknowledged previously (MR 36; see also Item 8).
           problem and reputational risk.                                       This gap could have been addressed with a restructuring during the
                                                                                period of Project suspension or before the extension of the Closing Date
                                                                                in December 2007.

                                                                                As Management previously acknowledged "... several opportunities were
                                                                                missed to restructure the Project. The need for Project restructuring,
                                                                                initially limited to Component 5, was identified at the MTR in October
                                                                                2004 but never formalized either by the Task Team or by Management,
                                                                                who were absorbed by the Fiduciary Review and its revelations of
                                                                                corruption." (MR 69).
     30.   Despite the clear findings of the Independent            277-        Comment: Management recognized previously (MR 73) "..... that
           Review and repeated findings in Management               280         supervision was also insufficient with respect to broader social protection
           supervision reports indicating inadequacy of                         measures that were intended to apply more generally throughout Project
           dispute resolution mechanisms, especially when                       provinces. As with safeguards, issues such as access to a fair and
           powerful parties are involved, Bank Management                       effective conflict resolution mechanism, community participation and
           did not take concrete measures to address these                      public awareness and information programs did not receive sustained
           adverse impacts.                                                     attention during supervision."

                                                                                Management would like to clarify that the Independent Review (February
                                                                                2006) cited by the Panel (IR 174) was a draft report prepared under
                                                                                contract to other Development Partners. The cited report was never
                                                                                finalized or accepted by Government. Management did receive an earlier
                                                                                report of a Pilot Independent Review by the same author (February 2005)
                                                                                but the findings cited by the Panel were not included in the earlier report.
                                                                                Management understands that disagreements over the 2006 report's
                                                                                methodology and findings kept it from being finalized and shared. In
                                                                                Management's view, despite methodological flaws, the 2006 report raised
                                                                                valid concerns and proper consideration of the report might have brought
                                                                                the issue of adjudicating private claims on land claimed by the State to
                                                                                prominent attention at an earlier point in Project implementation.
     31.   Panel notes that although there are several              281-        Comment: Management shares the concern of the Panel and has
           documents indicating that a significant number of        284         undertaken a review of overlaps between land disputes and LMAP
           families were adversely affected, the extent of the                  Adjudication Areas. "A number of people have been resettled without
           negative impact on families living in adjudication                   appropriate process from sites determined to be State Public Land in



                                                                           35
 Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


                                                                IR1
No.                           Finding                          Para                                        Comment
                                                               No.

        areas is unknown. The Panel is extremely                           Phnom Penh and other cities in Project provinces, and where the Project
        concerned about the large number of people who                     was not engaged in titling activities. Management will try to engage the
        were forcibly evicted, displaced or are under threat               Government in a dialogue on the need to assess these resettlement sites
        of eviction in Project areas.                                      and to improve their conditions. This would be important from a social
                                                                           and development perspective." (MR 86)

                                                                           Based on this desk review of land disputes reported in media and NGO
                                                                           reports, Management has identified an estimated 8,448 households (in
                                                                           addition to approximately 4,000 in BKL) falling into the broad category of
                                                                           reported evictions, pending evictions or other multi-party land disputes in
                                                                           communes where LMAP systematic titling was active. Initial field
                                                                           research has been carried out in relation to a sample of 16 of these
                                                                           communities involving 5,660 households. Though this research is
                                                                           preliminary and does not provide the basis for conclusions on the
                                                                           applicability of the RPF to individual communities it is clear that State
                                                                           claims over currently occupied land underlie a significant proportion of
                                                                           these disputes. In a number of these cases preliminary research also
                                                                           suggests that residents have good faith claims to recognition as lawful
                                                                           possessors. Similarly to the BKL case households' claims in these areas
                                                                           were not registered as part of the titling process on the basis of
                                                                           assertions that they were unlawful occupiers of State land. Applying the
                                                                           reasoning in the 2009 MR, there is potential for decisions in favor of the
                                                                           State that lead to the eviction of households from these sites to again
                                                                           trigger the LMAP RPF.

                                                                           Key findings of the Survey are presented in Annex 7.
  32.   A review of supervision reports shows that there       285-        Comment: Management acknowledges that the failure to define how and
        was no monitoring and evaluation system for the        286         by whom the M&E system was supposed to be designed was a
        Project until 2007. The Panel finds that due to the                shortcoming of both Project preparation and appraisal. In addition, the
        lack of a robust monitoring and evaluation system                  PAD Results Framework was weak and the Key Performance Indicators
        for Project, Bank Management did not become                        (outcome/impact indicators) included in the Design Summary were not
        aware of significant issues arising from Project.                  well defined, making the preparation of the required baselines and data
        This does not comply with OP/BP 13.05.                             collection mechanisms an unnecessarily difficult task.

                                                                           However, the need to establish an M&E system was insisted upon during
                                                                           supervision and reiterated in the MTR. An M&E Manual was finally
                                                                           adopted in December 2006 and the Project had begun to apply the M&E
                                                                           system through a unit that had received special training. The M&E
                                                                           system was described as functioning well by mid-2008, although it was
                                                                           still inadequate to alert the Task Team to the problems that were arising
                                                                           in LMAP titling areas.




                                                                      36
                                                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


                                                                        ANNEX 2
                              STATUS OF MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN OF NOVEMBER 2009

 No.                                   Actions                                                         Status (as of December 10, 2010)


Supporting the Communities that Have Been Affected

  1    [Social Impact Assessment]                                                   [Actions stalled]
       "Management is committed to undertaking an assessment of the                 Missions in February and March 2010 discussed with Government
       social impacts on the affected communities in BKL (...) Management           counterparts approaches to ensure that affected communities are
       will ask the Government to allow the Bank to undertake the                   "supported in a way consistent with the agreed Resettlement Policy
       assessment of the households resettled from the BKL area on its own          Framework."
       or with the Development Partners" (MR 80).
                                                                                    A potential Bank-supported project to improve living conditions and
  2    [Impact mitigation]                                                          livelihoods in urban poor communities (including resettlement areas) was
       "Management will aim to develop, together with the Government and            discussed in April 2010. However, Government decided not to move
       the Partners, a plan that would ensure that negative impacts,                forward with the proposed initiative.
       particularly on poor and vulnerable affected groups, are mitigated and
       that social and economic opportunities are developed." (MR 80).              Following consultations with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
  3    [Use of additional resources]                                                and MPP, the Task Team prepared TORs for a rapid needs assessment
       "Management will continue to pursue actions so that people can               and scoping of programming options. A local NGO has been identified and
       benefit from a set of protection measures in line with what they would       is expected to begin the assessment work in January 2011, with support
       have received under the RPF. Management will pursue with the                 from an international urban development specialist. The selected NGO has
       Government the possibility of using other IDA credits for this purpose,      an established track record working with urban poor communities and has
       and with donors the possibility of raising trust funds or government         a strong relationship with the MPP.
       funds for this purpose" (para. 81).
  4    [Identification of other areas where RFP should apply]                       [Action in progress]
       "Management has already started identifying other potential cases of         Management has continued efforts to identify land disputes outside of BKL
       communities that were resettled or evicted or are threatened with            that overlap with LMAP adjudication. Research conducted through
       resettlement or eviction from adjudication areas without proper              December 2010 has identified an estimated 12,448 households (this
       compliance with administrative procedures or implementation of the           includes 4,000 in the BKL area) across 31 communes falling into the broad
       RPF. Management's intention is for that review to be completed               category of reported evictions, pending evictions or other multi-party land
       during the month of November (...) In any areas where the RPF                disputes in communes where LMAP systematic titling was active.
       should have been applied, the Bank will adopt the same approach as
       outlined above for BKL" (para. 82).
  5    [Environmental concerns]                                                     [Action stalled]
       "Management will also encourage the Government to act on                     After Government decided not to move forward with the proposed project to
       environmental concerns in the BKL area. It will offer to assist the          improve living conditions and livelihoods in urban poor communities,
       Government in the designing and commissioning of additional                  discussions on the environmental aspects of BKL have not progressed
       investigations or studies that are critical to evaluate various options to   (item 2 in this table). Management believes that it will only be possible to
       mitigate adverse environmental impacts from the filling of the lake"         move this forward if a new dialogue on the BKL development is opened up
       (para. 83).                                                                  with Government or the private sector.

Supporting Improvements in Resettlement Policy and Land Dispute Resolution for the Benefit of All Communities at Risk

  6    [Dispute resolution/DFGG]                                                    [Action in progress]
       "Management will attempt to work with the Government to improve              Land Law dissemination work under the DFGG has commenced on a pilot
       the functioning of existing dispute settlement mechanisms and to             basis in one district in Kampot Province. Under current plans, a national
       enhance the capacity of communities and NGOs to call on it." (para.          media campaign and further local dissemination efforts will be launched in
       84).                                                                         2011. The non-state actor component of DFGG made its first call for
                                                                                    proposals in July 2010. The call for proposals included natural resources
                                                                                    management as a theme. NGO grants of up to US$150,000 have been
                                                                                    provided. One of these is supporting work on issues related to land tenure.




                                                                               37
       Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project



 No.                                   Actions                                                        Status (as of December 10, 2010)

  7     [Resettlement policy]                                                     [Action partially completed, but concerns regarding implementation]
        "Management will seek to work with the Government to finalize the         During the past year there have been a number of policy developments,
        national legal and policy framework for resettlement so that a fairer     including passage of: (a) a Law on Expropriation (January 2010); and (b)
        and more systematic approach for addressing and mitigating adverse        a Circular on Resolution of Illegal Temporary Settlements in City and
        impacts on people from land titling activities can be developed" (para.   Urban Areas (Circular No. 3; May 2010). Government has drafted a
        85).                                                                      Housing Policy and sought public input on the draft. Bank staff members
                                                                                  have provided comments on draft documents through the TWG-L. To date,
                                                                                  however, these policy developments have had limited impact on the ways
                                                                                  in which Government is dealing with communities like those in BKL and
                                                                                  concerns exist that Circular #3 is not enjoying broad implementation.
                                                                                  Another relevant instrument, the Sub-Decree on Addressing Socio-
                                                                                  Economic Impacts caused by Development Projects, was drafted with
                                                                                  support from the Asian Development Bank through 2008 but has not been
                                                                                  finalized.
  8     [Resettlement in Project provinces]                                       [Action stalled]
        "A number of people have been resettled without appropriate process       Action on this point stalled when Government rejected proposal to develop
        from sites determined to be State Public Land in Phnom Penh and           a project to improve living conditions and livelihoods in urban poor
        other cities in Project provinces, and where the Project was not          communities (including resettlement areas) in April 2010(see Item 2 in this
        engaged in titling activities. The Bank will try to engage the            table).
        Government in a dialogue on the need to assess these resettlement
        sites and to improve their conditions" (para. 86).
  9     [LASED]                                                                   [Action in progress]
        "The current LASED project and associated Japan Social                    The LASED project is proceeding with implementation as are the
        Development Fund (JSDF) grants are piloting the provision of Social       associated JSDFs. To date (December 2010) LASED has delivered
        Land Concessions (SLCs) to poor households in different contexts          livelihood and investment support services covering a total of 6,849
        and will continue to focus on ensuring that project features designed     registered hectares in five communes benefiting 1,254 land recipients
        to ensure transparency and effective citizen participation are            (against targets of 10,000 hectares; 20 communes; 3,000 recipients).
        successfully implemented" (para. 88).
 10     [Additional JSDFs]                                                        [Action in progress]
        "Additional JSDF grants flagged in the CAS Extension (2008-2011)          Two JSDFs are under consideration. A JSDF seed fund application for
        addressing tenure issues in vulnerable communities ­ rural and            Organizing for sustainable livelihoods in indigenous communities has been
        urban­ will be pursued as a matter of priority and developed in           prepared, cleared by Management and approved by the JSDF Secretariat.
        cooperation with relevant NGOs and government agencies" (para. 88)        A JSDF proposal for vulnerable urban communities will be prepared, based
                                                                                  on outcomes from the needs assessment (due to begin in January 2011).
 11     [CAS Process]                                                             [Action in progress]
        "Starting in December 2009, Management will initiate a consultative       A CAS Completion Report will be prepared to distill lessons that can be
        process to (re)define the role of the Bank in Cambodia and to identify    used in shaping the future country strategy, given the current constraints
        areas of cooperation and modalities of support. The CAS will draw on      and relationship with the Government. In light of the current
        the lessons from the past few years. It will reflect the level of         circumstances, Management will prepare a short term Interim Strategy
        cooperation between the Bank and the Government and will look             Note (ISN) in lieu of a full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The aim of
        critically at what can be achieved realistically in the current           the ISN is to rebuild trust with the Government and focus engagement on
        environment" (para. 89).                                                  areas of mutual interest where there is a solid implementation track record
                                                                                  and where we can effectively identify and minimize risks.
Learning the Lessons
12      [Dissemination of Lessons Learned]                                        [Action in progress]
        "Management will set in place a process to learn further and              A first Annual Safeguards Forum was organized by the Safeguards
        disseminate the lessons, through workshops within the East Asia           Secretariat and Safeguards supervision strategies are being developed
        Region and among land specialists across the Bank" (para. 93).            during appraisal for new operations. Regional Safeguards Specialists are
                                                                                  preparing a roster of safeguards consultants to facilitate identification and
                                                                                  recruitment of qualified individuals.
                                                                                  Training events have included courses for: (a) Phnom Penh based staff
                                                                                  and PMU staff; (b) Safeguards Training for PMU staff (Phnom Penh
                                                                                  December 15-17, 2010); and (c) Safeguards Training for Consultants
                                                                                  (Bangkok Oct 22-26, 2010).




                                                                             38
                                                           Management Report and Recommendation


                                        ANNEX 3

                         PROJECT MILESTONES AND KEY RESULTS


                                     LMAP Milestones

                    Milestone                                         Date

Identification Mission                            July 12-24, 2000
Concept Review Meeting                            November 30, 2000
Preparation Mission                               April 23-27, 2001
Consultative Group Meeting (Tokyo)                June 12-13, 2001
Pre-appraisal Mission                             July 5-17, 2001
Decision Meeting                                  October 4, 2001
Appraisal Mission                                 October 22-29, 2001
Technical Discussions                             December 7-10, 2001
Negotiations                                      December 11-12, 2001
Project Appraisal Document                        January 29, 2002
Board Approval                                    February 26, 2002
Development Credit Agreement Signing              March 27, 2002
Credit Effectiveness                              June 19, 2002
Mid-term Review                                   September 27-October 11, 2004
Fiduciary Review                                  July 2004-September 2005
Suspension of Disbursements                       June 6, 2006
Lifting of the Suspension of Disbursements        February 5, 2007
Original Closing Date                             December 31, 2007
Extension of the Closing Date to December 31,     December 31, 2007
2009
Enhanced Review Mission                           March 30-April 12, 2009
Enhanced Review Mission Final Report              July 13, 2009
Cancellation of Undisbursed Funds by the          September 7, 2009
Borrower
Revised Closing Date                              December 31, 2009




                                             39
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project




                                          LMAP Key Results


            Component                                        Key Results

    Component 1: The               · Formulating land policies and regulations necessary for the
    development of land policy       implementation of all three pillars of the land sector program
    and a regulatory framework       including systematic titling, sporadic titling, the Cadastral
                                     Commission, State land management, economic
                                     concessions, SLCs and titling of indigenous lands.
                                   · Enabling increased revenue collection from both land taxes
                                     and transaction fees.
    Component 2: Institutional     · The establishment and operation of key administrative
    development                      functions for land titling within the MLMUPC.
                                   · Developing a university degree in land management and
                                     administration.
    Component 3: Land titling      · By September 2009, more than 1.58 million land parcels
    program and development of       surveyed, 1.24 million titles distributed to beneficiaries.
    a land registration system
    Component 4: Strengthening     · Component helped to establish the NCC and create
    mechanisms for dispute           provincial and district-level commissions for mediating land
    resolution.                      disputes.
                                   · Legal assistance for the disadvantaged piloted with GTZ
                                     support, but Project was not successful in recruiting NGOs to
                                     continue this work.
    Component 5: Land              · Key results limited to development of procedures for land
    management                       classification and procurement of aerial photographs needed
                                     to support land classification and land titling.
                                   · Implementation of State land mapping and related processes
                                     limited to pilot operations.




                                                  40
                                                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


                                                               ANNEX 4

                DETAILED TIMELINE ON THE BKL EVICTIONS AND THE BANK'S RESPONSE


 Following the receipt of letters from NGOs highlighting the eviction issue, Management pursued
 a series of actions to deal with these issues, including:
      ·     Meeting with representatives of the communities and NGOs to hear concerns;
      ·     Making the decision to undertake an ERM of LMAP;
      ·     Carrying out an active dialogue with the authorities in which the issues were raised and
            solutions were offered (e.g., help Government finalize its policy and legal framework for
            resettlement; provide support to upgrade resettlement sites);
      ·     Calling on the authorities--in meetings, letters and through a joint donor statement--to
            put a moratorium on evictions.

 A timeline of these actions--many of which were repeated numerous times--is shown below
 (shaded actions were reported in the November 2009 Management Response).

            Date                                                              Event/Action
May 2006                       Public notice of adjudication zone for systematic land titling under LMAP
May 2006 ­ January 2007        LMAP Land Registration Teams carry out survey and adjudication in Sras Chok commune. BKL residents
                               request that their individual land claims be recognized
January 4 ­ February 2, 2007   The public display of the adjudication records showed only village boundaries (with owner listed as "unknown")
February 6, 2007               BKL Lease agreement signed between MPP and the private developer
April ­ May 2008               Communities reassured by authorities that there would be no resettlement
June 6, 2008                   Supervision mission visit to BKL area (Sras Chok Commune). During this brief visit the PMO informs donors
                               that BKL is State public land and therefore residents are ineligible for titles
July 2008                      Letter from Phnom Penh Department of Land Management to MPP describing the boundaries of the
                               "development area"
August 2008                    MPP conveys plans for resettlement to communities. Residents of the "development area" pressured to
                               resettle. Most tenure-insecure households living in stilt houses on the lake begin to move away
August 2008                    Commencement of lake filling and site development by private developer
August 2008                    Re-classification of land to "State Private"
November 2008                  Bank learns that NGO is preparing a report on LMAP
November 10, 2008              Bank Task Team contacts NGO
November 20, 2008              Bank Task Team meets with NGOs
January 12, 2009               BABSEA requests information on adjudication status of Boeung Kak area of Phnom Penh (BKL and Sras Chok
                               are not mentioned)
January 20, 2009               Task Team facilitates meeting of NGOs with TWG-L and LMAP Project Director; NGOs give a Powerpoint
                               presentation
January 24, 2009               Eviction of Dey Krahorm community
February 18, 2009              Country Director (CD) receives letter from BABSEA
February 23, 2003              Task Team shares BABSEA letter with PMO and LMAP Development Partners
February 20-26, 2009           Bank Management meetings to review issues



                                                                      41
 Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project



               Date                                                        Event/Action
March 2-3, 2009         Discussions with co-financiers (Germany, Canada, Finland)
March 4, 2009           CD travels to Phnom Penh to meet with NGO and Dey Krahorm representatives in the Bank's Office to hear
                        their concerns
March 4, 2009           Letter from Community Legal Education Center (CLEC) to CD regarding Group 78 eviction
Shortly thereafter      Decision to undertake an ERM of LMAP
March 11, 2009          Letter from Country Manager (CM) to Senior Minister of Land (Sr. ML) regarding 11th Multi-Donor Supervision
                        Mission and actions to fulfill covenants, including two complaints raising concerns about evictions
March 24, 2009          Letter from CM to Sr. ML to announce LMAP ERM
April 1-10, 2009        LMAP ERM is in Cambodia
April 8 or 9, 2009      CD and Regional Vice President (RVP) meet Secretary General, MEF at ASEAN Finance Ministers Summit
                        and advise him that Bank is undertaking a careful review of the application of safeguards to the land
                        disputes/evictions
April 9, 2009           Letter from BABSEA addressed to "the Board of the World Bank Group" attaching a confidential draft report
                        with list of questions, including reference to potential Inspection Panel request. BABSEA Director subsequently
                        clarified that report had not been sent to the Board, Government or other Development Partners but would be
                        shared only after receiving response from Management. Actual distribution took place in October 2009
April 10, 2009          SD and CM meet with Sr. ML and raise concerns about the evictions during a broad discussion on land issues
April 20, 2009          Notification from MPP to all residents living on Sour Srun Company's land (Group 78) and public road
April 27, 2009          Letter from CD to BABSEA, CLEC, JRSC responding to their letter of April 9, 2009
April 30, 2009          In meeting with Deputy Prime Minister (DPM), CM: (i) provides briefing on the preliminary findings of the ERM;
                        (ii) raises concerns about evictions and pending evictions of Group 78 residents; (iii) requests assistance in
                        arranging meetings with MPP Authorities and the Senior Minister of Land; and (iv) suggests a temporary
                        moratorium on evictions
April 30, 2009          CD writes to DPM to follow up on CM's meeting of the previous day and again expresses same concerns;
                        suggests a temporary moratorium until a policy and legal framework for resettlement is in place
May 3, 2009             CD and RVP meet with Secretary of State, MEF and Deputy Secretary General, MEF at Asian Development
                        Bank Annual Meetings in Bali. RVP expresses concerns about LMAP implementation; Secretary of State (who
                        was briefed ahead of time by CM) indicates that he is aware of the issues, but that he has been advised that
                        the evictions were outside the scope of LMAP. Bank team indicates that there were ongoing
                        discussions/investigations about the nature of the linkages with LMAP; agrees to discuss the issues further
                        with the authorities
May 5, 2009             CM meets with the Deputy Governor of Phnom Penh to (a) raise concerns on the evictions and possible links
                        to LMAP; and (b) ask for a moratorium on evictions
May 6, 2009             CM meets with Sr. ML to: (a) raise concerns on evictions and possible links to LMAP; and (b) ask for a
                        moratorium on evictions; Sr. ML insists that there is absolutely no link between any evictions and LMAP
May 18, 2009            CD in Phnom Penh; meets with DPM and again raises same concerns
May 27, 2009            CD and CM meet with Sr. ML to share: (a) preliminary findings from ERM; and (b) concerns about the evictions
                        and possible links to LMAP, as well as to stress the need: (c) to adhere to safeguards guidelines; and (d) for a
                        moratorium on evictions. Again, Sr. ML insists that there is no link between any evictions and LMAP
June 4, 2009            CD and CM meet with land NGOs and the Bank Information Center in Bangkok. Update provided on situation
                        of evictees from Dey Krahorm and possible Group 78 eviction
June 12, 2009           Task team facilitates meeting between NGOs and TWG-L
July 8, 2009            CD letter to DPM following up letter of April 30
July 15, 2009           Bank shares the ERM Report with authorities through letter from CD to Sr. ML
July 16, 2009           The Bank issues a joint statement with other Development Partners calling for a halt to evictions of Cambodia's
                        urban poor
July 17, 2009           CD meets with Sr. ML to discuss ERM report and concerns about the handling of land disputes in Phnom Penh
July 17, 2009           Eviction of Group78 community




                                                              42
                                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation



            Date                                                        Event/Action
July 22, 2009          CD letter to Sr. ML following up on meeting of July 17; raises concerns about the BKL residents and proposes
                       a supervision mission for LMAP with expertise on resettlement issues
July 22, 2009          64 Cambodian and International NGOs endorse July 16 Development Partners joint statement
July 30, 2009          CD second letter to authorities proposing an Environmental and Social Safeguards Review Mission in early
                       August to: (a) review implementation of safeguards in relation to land allocation and land titling activities in BKL
                       area; (b) assess environment impacts of lake filling and related dredging; and (c) assess social impacts of
                       filling of the lake and dredging on adjacent communities
July 30, 2009          Letter from CM to Phnom Penh Governor twice requesting meetings for the Safeguards Review Mission
July 31, 2009          Letter from Acting CM to Secretary of State at Council of Ministers to request a meeting with Safeguards
                       Review Mission
August 3-5, 2009       Safeguards Review Mission in Cambodia
August 4, 2009         Second letter from CM to Phnom Penh Governor requesting meetings for Safeguards Review Mission
August 5, 2009         Letter from Task Team Leader to LMAP Project Director requesting information for Safeguards Review Mission
                       and reminding of obligations under the DCA
August 5, 2009         Meeting with community representatives and NGOs at NGO Forum
August 10, 2009        First formal eviction notices (BKL Villages 2 and 4)
August 13, 2009        Letter from CM to Phnom Penh Governor requesting meeting to discuss issues related to BKL area
August 14, 2009        Letter from Cambodian Housing Rights Task Force to CD and Task Team Leader regarding the ESG and the
                       RPF
August 17, 2009        Letter from CD to Sr. ML to: (a) raise concerns about the evictions and the link between BKL and LMAP; and
                       (b) remind of obligations under the DCA
August 21, 2009        Letter from Acting CM to Phnom Penh Governor requesting meeting to discuss issues related to BKK Lake
                       area
August 21, 2009        Meeting with community representatives and NGOs at Bank Phnom Penh office
August 27-28, 2009     Visit of RVP to Cambodia. Meets with 3 DPMs, PM's Adviser, Sr. ML, Minister of Commerce, NGOs and
                       Development Partners. PM cancels meeting with RVP. All discussions focus on LMAP, including the need for:
                       (a) a moratorium on evictions; and (b) a resettlement policy. Offers to support the authorities to: (c) put into
                       place a legal and policy framework; and (d) help upgrade resettlement sites. RVP proposes a joint suspension
                       of the Project while work is ongoing to improve resettlement policy and regulatory framework
September 4, 2009      Council of Ministers decides to cancel remaining LMAP Credit. DPM informs CM of Government's decision to
                       cancel LMAP with immediate effect; indicated that formal letter is forthcoming
September 4, 2009      The Inspection Panel receives a Request for Inspection, IPN Request RQ 09/08, concerning LMAP
September 6, 2009      Bank issues public statement and posts ERM report on the web
September 7, 2009      Bank receives letter (DPM, MEF to RVP) requesting cancellation of undisbursed balance of LMAP Credit
September 18, 2009     Bank response (RVP to DPM, MEF) to cancellation letter in which Management reminds the Government of its
                       ongoing obligations under the Project
September 24, 2009     Letter from CD to DPM, MEF regarding cancellation of undisbursed amount
September 24, 2009     The Executive Directors and the President of the Bank are notified of receipt of the Request
September 28, 2009     Release of NGO report Untitled: Tenure Insecurity and Inequality in the Cambodian Land Sector, by BABSEA,
                       COHRE, and JRSC
October 1, 2009        COHRE press release (http://www.cohre.org/inspectionpanel)
October 8, 2009        Letter from CD to DPM, MEF regarding processes for closing the LMAP Credit and Designated Account
October 9, 2009        Letter from CD to DPM, MEF regarding cancellation of CIDA TF053043
October 9, 2009        Letters from CD to DPs (CIDA, German Embassy and Embassy of Finland) regarding cancellation of LMAP
                       undisbursed balances
November 2, 2009       Management issues its Response to the Request for an Inspection Panel Review of LMAP
November 16-19, 2009   Inspection Panel mission to Cambodia for the Eligibility Stage



                                                             43
 Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project



            Date                                                           Event/Action
December 7, 2009        Inspection Panel issues preliminary eligibility report
January 14, 2010        Law on Expropriation completes passage through national legislature
February 22-26, 2010    1st technical mission to Phnom Penh to discuss a potential program to improve the livelihoods and living
                        conditions of poor urban communities (including resettlement areas)
March 13-20, 2010       2nd technical mission to Phnom Penh to discuss a potential program to improve the livelihoods and living
                        conditions of poor urban communities (including resettlement areas)
March 17-20, 2010       RVP visits Cambodia to further discuss with authorities actions and options to support the affected people and
                        a potential program to improve the livelihoods and living conditions of poor urban communities
March 18, 2010          Meeting between RVP and DPM. DPM informed RVP of Government's decision not to proceed with a potential
                        program to improve the livelihoods and living conditions of poor urban communities
March 23, 2010          CD and CM meet with representatives of BABSEA and COHRE
March 24-25, 2010       CLP organizes public consultation workshop on draft national housing policy
March 31, 2010          Inspection Panel issues final eligibility report
April 29, 2010          CLP solicits written comments on revised draft national housing policy
May 22-29, 2010         Inspection Panel undertakes second mission to Cambodia for investigation phase
May 31, 2010            Government passes Circular #3 on the Resolution of Illegal Temporary Settlements on State Land Illegally
                        Occupied in Urban Areas
July ­ October, 2010    Filling of BKL and seasonal rains cause flooding in the BKL communities.
July 29, 2010           Local press reports BKL resident dies of electrocution while trying to fix a light in a flooded house.
August 16, 2010         CM and Communications Officer meet with a resident of the BKL area to hear his update on his family's
                        situation following their eviction
August 23, 2010         Local press reports that security forces disrupt a meeting of BKL residents at the National Institute of
                        Pedagogy in Phnom Penh
August 24, 2010         Meeting with BKL community representatives at Bank offices in Phnom Penh to discuss: (a) Bank willingness
                        to provide technical advice in further developing proposals for on-site housing; and (b) continued Bank support
                        for dialogue with other Development Partners, the private sector and Government with a view to finding an
                        improved resolution of the BKL issue
September 1, 2010       BKL resident presents an update on the situation of her community at the TWG-L Development Partner
                        meeting at Bank offices in Phnom Penh explaining that "BKL residents are crying for help from the donor
                        community fearing that the Government would turn down their proposal and evict them off their land at the end"
                        (TWG Minutes).
September 28, 2010      Teleconference with NGOs working on onsite housing upgrades options for the BKL communities including
                        World Bank Urban Development Specialist, concludes that technical discussions on the development of onsite
                        housing options are premature until there is an opening to discuss the issue with the municipality.
October 1, 2010         Authorities intervene to disband a meeting of BKL residents at the National Pedagogical Institute
October 28, 2010        Residents of BKL and other communities under threat of eviction demonstrate demanding an audience with
                        visiting UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. Community spokesperson, Suong Sophorn, detained.
November 17, 2010       Local press reports that residents of BKL Village 22 received a notice, signed by Khan Governor Sok Sambath,
                        urging them to accept compensation within seven days from November 17 or face "strict measures"
November 23, 2010       Bank Management receives LMAP Inspection Panel Investigation Report
November 24, 2010       BKL Villages 22 and 24 receive eviction notices.
December 1, 2010        Local press reports that the Senate's Commission on Human Rights Reception of Complaints and Investigation
                        has sent a letter urging H.E. Kep Chuktema, the Governor of Phnom Penh, to act to resolve the ongoing
                        dispute between residents of the Boeung Kak Lake area.
January 7, 2011         CM meets with Counselor and Head of Development Cooperation, Embassy of Canada.
January 10, 2011        CD, SL and TTL meet with Counselor and Head of Development Cooperation, Embassy of Canada in
                        Bangkok.
January 12, 2011        CM and TTL meet with Counselor, Development Cooperation, Embassy of German, GTZ Representative, GTZ



                                                               44
                                                                        Management Report and Recommendation



           Date                                                Event/Action
                   Team Leader for LMAP, and Embassy Intern.
January 14, 2011   TTL meets with Counselor and Head of Development Co-operation, Embassy of Finland in Bangkok.
January 19, 2011   CD and SL meet with Ambassador of Germany and Counselor, Development Cooperation, Embassy of
                   Germany.
January 19, 2011   CD and SL meet with the Requestors, the Executive Director Bridges Across Borders Cambodia and
                   Representatives of BKL Residents/Communities.




                                                     45
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project




                                                  46
                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation


                                              ANNEX 5

                             DONOR STATEMENT AND NGO RESPONSE

                                         PUBLIC STATEMENT

DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS CALL FOR HALT TO EVICTIONS OF CAMBODIA'S
URBAN POOR

July 16, 2009--- Development Partners are calling upon the Royal Government of Cambodia to stop
forced evictions from disputed areas in Phnom Penh and elsewhere in the country until a fair and
transparent mechanism for resolving land disputes is put in place and a comprehensive resettlement policy
is developed.

Development Partners recognize that land issues are an ongoing challenge to development in Cambodia
and urge the Government to adopt fair and transparent systems for land titling, including in urban areas,
which recognize and protect the equal rights of all citizens. Development Partners stand ready to support
the establishment of national policy guidelines which would ensure that evictions and resettlement follow
due legal process and provide just compensation to affected individuals.

The World Bank and a number of Development Partners have been working closely with the Government
on securing land titling in Cambodia. The Government is commended for issuing more than one million
land titles because this offers the opportunity for improved growth and poverty reduction.

However, in an environment of escalating urban land values in Cambodia and speculative land buying
and selling, urban dwellers are under threat of being moved to make way for high value property
development. This has become a major problem in Phnom Penh and other fast growing cities in
Cambodia ­ creating uncertainty for, and putting at risk the livelihoods of, thousands of poor people
living in disputed urban areas. This is a result of policies and practices that do not reflect good
international practice in dispute resolution and resettlement and do not make effective use of the
procedures and institutions allowed for in Cambodian law.

International experience has established that secure land tenure is vital in ensuring economic growth and
reducing poverty and that fair, well-implemented resettlement processes are key to an effective land
tenure and titling system and protecting the rights of all people.

Development Partners reaffirm their commitment to work with the Government to help address land
issues in a just and equitable manner and to ensure that the rights of poor people are promoted and
protected.

signed by:      Embassy of Australia Embassy of Bulgaria
                Embassy of Denmark / Danida
                Embassy of Germany
                Embassy of the United Kingdom
                Embassy of the United States of America
                Swedish International Development Agency (Sida)
                Asian Development Bank
                Delegation of the European Commission
                United Nations
                World Bank
Contact: Saroeun Bou, World Bank +855 23 21 7301 Email: sbou@worldbank.org

                                                   47
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


Statement from Non Government Organizations (NGOs)

We are 64 non-government organizations working for the development of Cambodia. We have seen the
16 July statement entitled "DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS CALL FOR HALT TO EVICTIONS OF
CAMBODIA'S URBAN POOR," issued by development partners of the Cambodian Government
(Embassy of Australia, Embassy of Bulgaria, Embassy of Germany, Embassy of the United Kingdom,
Embassy of the United States of America, Embassy of Denmark / Danida, Swedish International
Development Agency (Sida), Asian Development Bank, Delegation of the European Commission, United
Nations, World Bank).

We are appreciating to see that the development partners have supported a concern that non government
organizations have been raising for many years. We express our support for the statement. We too are
concerned about forced evictions throughout rural and urban Cambodia. We will continue to cooperate
with the Cambodian Government to help address land issues in a just and equitable manner and to ensure
that the rights of poor people are promoted and protected.

For further Information:

Mr. Sok Sam Oeun, Chairman of CHRAC/Executive Director of CDP
Tel: 012 901199

Mr. Thun Saray, President of ADHOC
Tel: 016 880509

Mr. Chhith Sam Ath, Director, NGO Forum on Cambodia
Tel: 012 928585.

Mr. Lun Borithy, Executive Director of CCC
Te: 012 802 384

Mr. Dr. Sin Somuny, Executive Director of Medicam
Tel: 012 573062

Mr. Sia Phearum, Housing Rights Task Force secretariat
Tel: 012 852 325

 Cambodian NGOs
          1          ADHOC
          2          BABSEA
          3          Building Community Voice
          4          Cambodia HIV/Aids Education and Care
          5          CARDH
          6          CCC
          7          CCPCR
          8          CDK
          9          CDP
         10          CHHRA
         11          CHRAC
         12          CIDC
         13          CKIMHRDA
         14          CLEC
         15          CMDP
         16          Cooperation Committee Cambodia


                                                            48
                                                                Management Report and Recommendation


          17         CWCC
          18         DPA
          19         ESO
          20         GAD/C
          21         GENEROUS
          22         HROTP
          23         HRTF
          24         ICSO
          25         IDA
          26         KID
          27         KIND
          28         KKKHRO
          29         KKKHTDA
          30         KYA
          31         LAC
          32         LICADHO
          33         MEDiCAM
          34         Mlup Baitong
          35         NGO Forum on Cambodia
          36         PADEK
          37         PDP-Center
          38         PJJ
          39         RAHDO
          40         SADA
          41         Star Kampuchea
          42         UPWD
          43         Vigilance
          44         YBDP
International NGOs
           1         ACR Caritas Australia
           2         AFSC
           3         CARE International
           5         Caritas Cambodia
           4         CRWRC
           6         DCA/CA
           7         Diakonia Cambodia
           8         Flora and Fauna International
           9         GRET
          10         Health Unlimited
          11         ICCO
          12         Intervida Cambodia
          13         LWF
          14         Maryknoll Cambodia
          15         NPA
          16         NTFP-EP
          17         Oxfam GB (O America, O Aust, OHK, OGB, O
                     NOVIB)
         18          Union Aid Abroad ­ APHEDA
         19          Veterans International
         20          World Vision

         64          TOTAL




                                                    49
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project




                                                  50
                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


                                                ANNEX 6

                         GUIDE TO KEY LEGAL TERMS AND INSTRUMENTS


Law: An act of Parliament, signed by the King.

Sub-Decree: A regulation issued by the Government, signed by the Prime Minister, often providing
      details on the implementation of provisions within a Law.

Royal Decree: A decision of the King, issued in accordance with a proposition from the Government.
       Used to promulgate laws, appoint high level officials and sometimes with more general effect.

Prakas: A regulation issued by a minister; sub-ordinate to a sub-decree.

Land Law: The Land Law of the Kingdom of Cambodia, passed by the National Assembly on July 20,
      2001, adopted by the Senate on August 13, 2001, signed by the King and effective as of August
      30, 2001.

State Land: The State owns all land in Cambodia that: (a) falls into certain categories enumerated in
       Article 58 of the Constitution such as mountains, coastline rivers, canals, streams, lakes, forests;
       (b) is escheat (i.e., forfeited or abandoned) or given to the State; and (c) has not been subject to
       proper private appropriation or is not being privately occupied in accordance with Chapter 4 of
       the Land Law (see Possessory Rights below). State land is of two types: State Public Land and
       State Private Land.

State Public Land: State land that has public interest uses, such as:

            Any property that has a natural origin, such as forests, courses of navigable or floatable
            water, natural lakes, banks of navigable and floatable rivers and seashores:

            Any property that is specially developed for general use, such as quays of harbors, railways,
            railway stations and airports;

            Any property that is made available, either in its natural state or after development, for public
            use, such as roads, tracks, oxcart ways, pathways, gardens and public parks, and reserved
            land;

            Any property that is allocated to render a public service, such as public schools or educational
            institutions, administrative buildings and all public hospitals;

            Any property that constitutes a natural reserve protected by the law;

            Archeological, cultural and historical patrimonies;

            Immovable properties being royal properties that are not the private properties of the royal
            family. The reigning King manages royal immovable properties. (LL Art. 15)

        State Public Land cannot be sold or otherwise alienated, although it can be subject to an
        authorization to use for temporary purposes. (LL Art. 16)




                                                    51
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


        People cannot acquire ownership of State Public Land through prescription (adverse possession)
        or through the special acquisition provisions of Chapter 4 of the Land Law 9 ­ i.e., through the
        conversion of Possessory Rights into ownership (see Possessory Rights). (LL Art. 16)

State Private Land: All State land that is not State Public Land. State Private Land may be subject to
       sale, exchange, distribution or transfer of rights. It may be leased out or the subject of a
       concession for economic or social purposes. (LL Art. 17 and Chap. 4).

Possessory rights: A person occupying land may claim a possessory right over that land leading to
       ownership (extraordinary acquisitive possession) in the following circumstances:

            The person possessed the property prior to August 30, 2001 (LL Art. 30) and the possession
            of property was unambiguous, non-violent, notorious to the public, continuous and in good
            faith. (LL Arts. 32, 38)

            The person acquired or inherited the property in good faith from someone who was a
            legitimate possessor as set out in (a) above. (LL Arts. 39, 71)

            The land in question must be able to be lawfully possessed ­ most importantly, it cannot be
            State Public Land (LL Arts. 16, 43). By contrast, land which would otherwise be State
            Private Land on which people had settled prior to August 30, 2001 can and often is the
            subject of legitimate claims to possessory rights.

        A large majority of the parcels being titled under LMAP are properties to which people have
        rights through possession. That is, their right to title is based on showing that they have occupied
        the parcel in compliance with the above criteria, rather than on a pre-existing recognition of
        formal ownership.

Notorious possession: Possession that is conspicuous, capable of being observed by others, not hidden
       or secret. Notorious possession is one of the criteria that must be met in order for an occupant of
       land to assert a possessory right leading to ownership.

Conversion of State Public Land to State Private Land: If State Public Land is considered to have lost
      its public interest use, it can be converted to State Private Land. According to the Land Law (Art.
      16) such conversion requires the passage of a Law ­ a Sub-Decree or Prakas not being sufficient
      for this purpose.

Systematic titling: The process of determining rights to land, and issuing and registering title to all
      parcels within a declared Adjudication Area, in accordance with Chapter VI of the Land Law
      and Sub-decree No.46 of 2002 on Procedures of Establishing Cadastral Index Map and Land
      Register. An Administrative Commission is formed for each Adjudication Area, and has the
      responsibility for overseeing the process of systematic titling, including: (a) arranging the public
      display of the cadastral index map and the list of owners; (b) receiving all complaints,
      investigating and resolving in accordance with the agreement; (c) making a conclusion on the
      adjudication record; and (d) making a proposal for providing the right to land to the occupants, or
      owners, or for keeping the land as State property. The adjudication record is finalized upon
      signature by the Provincial/Municipal Governor and the Minister of LMUPC. If it is not possible
      to determine ownership to a parcel because ownership is disputed, the dispute is referred to the
      Cadastral Commission for resolution before title is issued and registered.

Sporadic titling: The process of determining rights to land and issuing and registering title to parcels
       upon the request of the person claiming ownership to the land, under Sub Decree on Sporadic

                                                    52
                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


        Land Registration [No. 48 ANK May 31, 2002]. As contrasted to systematic titling which is
        designed to cover all land within a given Adjudication Area, sporadic titling is an "on demand"
        process that is not restricted to an Adjudication Area.

Adjudication area: An area declared by a Provincial/Municipal Governor for systematic titling under
       Sub-Decree No. 46 of 2002.

Adjudication: The process to be followed in carrying out systematic titling in an Adjudication Area,
       involving the following steps: 1). a public "opening meeting" at the beginning of the process to
       explain the procedures, clarify legal matters and answer questions; 2) a demarcation process by
       which the boundaries of each parcel are demarcated with the participation of owners or holders of
       that parcel and its neighbors; the inclusion of the demarcated parcels in a cadastral map; 3) an
       investigation and recording of the rights associated with each parcel in the adjudication record
       based on all available evidence including oral information; 4) a public display period for people
       to view the maps of adjudicated parcels; and 5) an opportunity to present objections and the
       resolution of disputes by a local Administrative Commission and, if disputes cannot be settled at
       that level, by the National Cadastral Commission.

Cadastral index map: A map of Adjudication Areas produced as a result of the systematic titling
       process, including the boundaries of all public and private properties demarcated and the
       classification of the land, such as cultivation land, forest land, submerged land, lands for
       industrial construction, etc.

Economic land concessions: Concessions of State Private Land issued for economic purposes, in
      accordance with the Sub-Decree on Economic Land Concessions, No. 146 ANK/BK, 2005.

Social land concessions: A legal mechanism to transfer State Private Land for social purposes to the
        poor who lack land for residential and/or family farming purposes, in accordance with the Sub-
        Decree on Social Land Concessions, No. 19 ANK/BK, 2003. SLCs are issued over vacant State
        Private Land (i.e., it is not intended as a mechanism for regularizing illegal occupation of State
        land) for an initial period of 5 years, after which (if certain conditions have been met) the
        concession may be converted into ownership.

Indigenous lands: According to the Land Law, Chapter 3, Part 2, an indigenous community is "a group
       of people...whose members manifest ethnic, social, cultural and economic unity and who practice
       a traditional lifestyle, and who cultivate the lands in their possession according to customary rules
       of collective use." The lands of indigenous communities are "those lands where the said
       communities have established their residences and where they carry out traditional agriculture."
       This includes land reserved for shifting cultivation. Ownership of indigenous lands is collective
       ownership, which includes all the rights and protections of private ownership except the right to
       dispose of any State public property that is included within the indigenous lands. Procedures for
       the registration of indigenous lands have recently been adopted in Sub-Decree [No 83 ANK, BK;
       June 09, 2009]. LMAP has not engaged in the registration of indigenous lands.




                                                    53
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project




                                                  54
                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


                                                  ANNEX 7

      SUMMARY OF RESEARCH ON DISPUTES AND EVICTIONS IN LMAP TITLING AREAS

1.      The November 2009 Management Action Plan includes the following undertaking with
regard to Identification of other areas where the RPF should apply: "Management has
already started identifying other potential cases of communities that were resettled or evicted or
are threatened with resettlement or eviction from Adjudication Areas without proper compliance
with administrative procedures or implementation of the RPF. (...) In any areas where the RPF
should have been applied, the Bank will adopt the same approach as outlined above for BKL"
(see 2009 Response, paragraph 82).

2.      In November 2010, MLMUPC provided Management with a full list of 232 communes in
which LMAP supported systematic titling through September 2009. Based on NGO records and
media monitoring, Management has identified 234 communes in which evictions, pending
evictions and multi-party disputes are reported by NGOs or the media, out of which 31
communes overlap LMAP Adjudication Areas (see Maps 2 and 4). On this basis, the chances of
such an event being reported in an LMAP commune (at 13.4 percent) is slightly below that for a
non-LMAP commune (at 14.6 percent) see table below.


                    Evictions, pending evictions and multi-party disputes reported by
                       NGOs and Media in LMAP and Non-LMAP Communes
                                                                  Non-LMAP
                                              LMAP Communes /                   Total Communes /
               Households Involved                               Communes /
                                                Households                         Households
                                                                 Households
          Unknown Number of Households              1/?             28 / ?            29 / ?
                 5-100 Households                  8 / 350        99 / 4,127       107 / 4,477

                    101-300 HH                   11 / 2,013       40 / 7,599        51 / 9,612

                    301-500 HH                    7/ 3,158        23 / 9,244       30 / 12,402

                   501-1000 HH                    3 / 2,341        9 / 6,631        12 / 8,972

                     >1000 HH                     1 / 4,586        4/ 6,381         5 / 10,967

               Total Communes / HH               31 / 12,448     203 / 33,982      234 / 46,430



                                              LMAP Adjudicated   Non-LMAP
                                                                                  All Communes
                                                Communes         Communes

                    Communes                        232             1,389             1,621
         Communes with evictions, pending
         evictions and multi-party disputes          31              203                234
            reported by NGOs or Media
                    Frequency                      13.4%            14.6%            14.4%




                                                          55
Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project


3.      Broken down to the level of households, this research has identified an estimated
8,448 households1 (in addition to approximately 4,000 in the BKL area) across 31 communes
falling into the broad category of evictions, pending evictions and multi-party disputes reported
by NGOs/media in areas where LMAP titling activities were carried out through September
2009.

4.      Initial field research has been carried out in relation to a sample of 16 of these
communities involving 5,660 households. Although this research is preliminary and does not
provide the basis for conclusions on the applicability of the RPF to individual communities, it is
clear that State claims over currently occupied land underlie most of these disputes. In many of
these cases preliminary research also suggests that residents have good faith claims to
recognition as lawful possessors. Similarly to the BKL case, it would appear these households
were excluded from making claims as part of the titling process on the basis of assertions that
they were not lawful possessors. Applying the reasoning in the 2009 Management Response,
there is potential for decisions in favor of the State that lead to the eviction of households from
these sites to again trigger the LMAP RPF.

5.     Additional data is available on urban poor communities in Phnom Penh based on a
December 2009 8 Khan Survey.2 According to this data, in the 39 Phnom Penh communes titled
under LMAP there are more than 100 poor urban communities housing more than 10,000
families that did not receive titles (compared to approximately 10 communities with 2,000
families that did). A rapid appraisal of a sample of 12 of these communities revealed that eight
(two thirds) had not been titled because the State asserted a claim over the land in question (for
example because it was part of the right of way for a road, a railway reservation or in one case a
former government cinema). Of the remaining four sites, one had recently been titled, one
community is itinerant and comprises only tenants, and two are more recent resettlement sites
with unclear tenure arrangements.

6.      In summary, Management notes that it has collected a significant amount of data related
to the identification of areas where "the RPF should apply." However, for the reasons already
described concerning lack of progress on the overall Management Action Plan, Management has
thus far not been in a position to act upon this information in order to ensure proper
implementation of steps to assist the affected people in these communities.




1
    This analysis uses secondary data from multiple sources and the World Bank has not been able to independently
    confirm all reports, therefore reported household numbers must be considered indicative only
2
    Available at: http://teangtnaut.org/download/The-8-Khan-Survey-2009.pdf


                                                       56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 38256
                                       103° E                                  104° E                                   105° E                                 106° E                                       107° E



                                                             THAILAND                                                                                                               L A O P. D . R .



                                                                              ODDAR                                                                                                                                                                                     CAMBODIA
                                                      Samraong
                                                                             MEANCHEY                   Cheom Ksan                                                          Siem Pang                                                                     LAND MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                                                                                          Kompong Sralao                                                                                                  ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
14° N                                                                                                          PREAH VIHEAR                                                                           RATANAKIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project Areas and Land Titling Activities
                                       BANTEAY
                                                                                                            Phnum Tbeng
                                      MEANCHEY                                                                 Meanchey
                                                                                                                                       Melouprey                                                                     Phum Kompadou                         WORLD BANK FINANCED              WORLD BANK FINANCED
                                                                                                                                                       STUNG               TRENG                             Bun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT COMMUNES                 PROJECT PROVINCES
                                                               Kralanh                                                                                                                                       Long
                                          Sisophon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CIDA FINANCED                    CIDA FINANCED
                                                                             SIEM REAP                                                                                Stung Treng                                Lomphat                                   PROJECT COMMUNES                 PROJECT PROVINCES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GOVERNMENT FINANCED              GOVERNMENT FINANCED
                                                                              Siem Reap                                                                                                                                                                    NON-PROJECT COMMUNES             NON-PROJECT PROVINCE

                                                                                                                             Rovieng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                     Battambang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                            M ekong
13° N
                                                                             Tonle                                                                                                                                                             13° N                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kohnieh
                             Pailin
                                                                               Sap                          KAMPONG THOM                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
                                      BATTAMBANG                                                                                                                                                 MONDOL                                                                 COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
                      PAILIN                                                                                         Kampong Thom                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   KIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chbar
                                                                                                                                                             KRATIE                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                Pursat                                                                                  Kratie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Senmonorom

                                                                                                  Kampong
                                                                    PURSAT                        Chhnang



                                                                                                KAMPONG                                      Kampong
12° N
                                                                                                CHHNANG                                      Cham                                                                                              12° N
                                                                                                                                                     KAMPONG
                                                                                                                                                       CHAM

                                                Krong Koh Kong                          KAMPONG                                        PREY VENG
                                                                                                                     PHNOM PENH
                                                                                          SPEU
                                                           KOH KONG                      Kampong Speu                Ta Khmau           Prey Veng                                                                                                                                 CAMBODIA

                                                                                                                        KANDAL                                                                 V IE T N AM
                                                                                                                                                     SVAY
                    Gulf o f                                                                                                                        RIENG
                                                                                                                Chambak
                 T hai l a n d                                                                                                                             Svay
11° N
                                                                                                                Takeo                                      Rieng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11° N


                                                                                                              TAKEO
                                                                                   KAMPOT
This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The
                                                    Sihanoukville
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and
                                                                                 Kampot                                                                                                    0     20         40       60        80 Kilometers
any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the
                                                  SIHANOUKVILLE                           Kep
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or                                                                     KEP                                                                                              0           20             40             60 Miles
acceptance of such
boundaries.
                                       103° E                                  104° E                                   105° E                                 106° E                                       107° E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JANUARY 19, 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 38266
                                               CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                                                                              LAND MANAGEMENT AND




                                                                                                                                       KANDAL PROVINCE
MYANMAR




                                                                                                                        MEKO
                          LAO

                                                                                                                                                                              ADMINISTRATION PROJECT




                                                                                                                         NG
                         P.D.R.



                                                                                                                                                                                                 Referenced Villages
                   THAILAND                                                                                                                                               COMMUNES WITH DISPUTES,                                                REFERENCED VILLAGES:
                                                                                    PHNOM PENH
                                                                                     PROVINCE                                                                             NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLDS INVOLVED:
                                                    VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                                          NON-ADJUDICATED
                                                                                                                                                                           < 100
                               CAMBODIA                                                                Area of Main Map                                                                                                                          BOEUNG KOK LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                           100­300
                               Phnom                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEVELOPMENT AREA
                                 Penh                        SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                           301­500
                                                                                                                                                                           501­1000                                                              BOUNDARY
               Gulf                                          CHINA
                                                               SEA            0 1 2 3 Kilometers                                                                           > 1000                                                                SAND FILL
                    of                                                                                                      KANDAL                                         UNKNOWN
                    Thailand                                                                                               PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                            Sras Chok     COMMUNES IN WHICH LAND TITLING OCCURRED


                                                     Ruessei Kaev

                                                                                Ruessei Kaev




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
          Phnom Penh Thmei                                                             Tuol Sangkae

                                                                                              Boeung Kok Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHNOM
                                                                                              Development Area
                                                                                                 (~133 ha.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K A N DA L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Chrouy
                                                            Boeung Kok Muoy




                                                                                                                                                                                        TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Changva
                                                             (Boeung Kok 1)




                                                                                                                                                                                          NL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PENH PROVINC
                                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                        Boeung Kok                                                Sras Chok




                                                                                                                                                                                                SA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                           Lake                                                                  Doun




                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                   Tuol Kouk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE
                                                                                                         (~90 ha.)
                                                                                                                                                                                 Penh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                 June
                                                                                                                 2009
                               Boeung Kok Pir
                                                                                                                               March
                               (Boeung Kok 2)                                                       January
                                                                                                     2010
                                                                                                                               2009                                                Voat Phnum
                                                                                                                                   Nov.
                                                                                                                                   2008 Sep.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                        2008


                                                                                                                                                                              Phsar Thmei       Phsar Chas
                                                                                                                                                                                 Muoy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                          Phsar Depou Muoy                                                                                                                        Phsar
                                                                                                                    Mittakpheap                       Monourom Phsar                                             Kandal
                                        Tuek L'ak Muoy                                                                                                            Thmei                             Phsar        Muoy
                                                                                                                                                                    Pir                            Kandal
                                                                                                                                                            Ou                          Phsar        Pir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                Phsar Depou Pir                                                           Ruessei
                                                                                                              7 Makkara                              Ou
                                                                                                                                                   Ruessei Bei
                                                                                                                                                                                        Thmei
                                                                                                                                                                                         Bei
                                                                                                                                               Ou Pir Ou
                                            Tuek L'ak Pir                                                                                    Ruessei Ruessei                                                     Chey Chumneah




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                 Phsar Depou Bei                                              Buon      Muoy
       Tuek Thla
                                                                                                                                                                                  Boeng Reang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                 Veal Vong
                                         Tuek L'ak Bei                                                                                                     Boeng Prolit                                      Chakto Mukh
                                                                                  Phsar Daeum Kor



                                                                                              Tuol Svay                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                Oulampik                       Boeng Keng
                                                                                               Prey Pir
                                                    Boeng Salang                                                                                                Kang Pir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dey Krahom
                                                                                                                                                                                            Boeng Keng                                       Group
                                                                                                                                                                                            Kang Muoy                                         78
                                                                                                         Tuol Svay Prey Muoy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC




                                                                                                                                                         Boeng Keng Kang Be             Chamkar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LE B




                                                                                   Tumnob Tuek
                     DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                                                                Mon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TON




                     COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                      Tonle Basak                              Mean Chey
                     PROVINCE BOUNDARY
                     ROADS                                                                                        Tuol Tumpung
                                                                                                                        Pir
                                                                                            Boeng                                                        Tuol Tumpung          Boeng                                                    Chbar                    Nirouth
                                                                                           Tumpun                                                            Muoy             Trabaek                                                   Ampov
                                Stueng                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pir
                               Mean Chey
                                                                 Mean Chey
0                                              1                                       2                                                 3 Kilometers


    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                Phsar Daeum Thkov
    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                         Chbar Ampov
    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                               Muoy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chak Angrae Leu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JANUARY 7, 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 37289
                                                                    CHINA
                                                                                                                      TONLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                              SA P

                                                                                                                                                                                  LAND MANAGEMENT AND




                                                                                                                                          MEKO
                MYANMAR




                                                                                                                                              NG
                                                 LAO                                                              Ruessei Kaev
                                                P.D.R.
                                                                                                                         Area of Main Map                                         ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                                                                                         Tuol Kouk
                                                                                                             7 Makkara
                                                                                                                                        Doun
                                                                                                                                        Penh       MEK
                                                                                                                                                                                               Sras Chok Commune
                                                                                                                                                        ONG
                                        THAILAND                                                                                     Chamkar
                                                                                                   Dang Ko                             Mon
                                                                       VIETNAM           KANDAL                                                                          21        REFERENCED VILLAGES                                         DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                        PROVINCE                                        Mean Chey
                                                      CAMBODIA                                                                                                                     SRAS CHOK COMMUNE                                           COMMUNE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                             TONLE
                                                      Phnom                                         PHNOM PENH




                                                                                                                                                   BA
                                                        Penh                  SOUTH                  PROVINCE




                                                                                                                                                   SSAC
                                                                                                                                                                                   BOEUNG KOK LAKE                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                              CHINA
                                        Gulf                                                                                                                                       DEVELOPMENT AREA BOUNDARY
                                           of                                  SEA                                                         KANDAL                                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARY (inset)
                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE                                 SAND FILL
                                           Thailand
                                                                                                             0 1 2 3 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROADS


                                0                                                                                 1                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                      .1        .2                      .5                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                   KILOMETERS



                                                                            Tuol Sangkae                                               Ruessei Kaev


                                           Boeung Kok Lake                                                                                                                                                                                            Chrouy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Changva
                                           Development Area
                                              (~133 ha.)
                                                                                                             21
                                Tuol
                                Kouk                                                                                                                                                                         TON
                                                                                                    24        23 20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                LE
           Boeung Kok
              Muoy                                                                                             22                                                     Sras Chok
         (Boeung Kok 1)
                                                      1              Boeung Kok                                                                                                                                       SAP
                                                                     Lake
                                                                   (~90 ha.)
                                                                                                                                      6                                       Doun
                                                                                                                                                                              Penh
Boeung Kok Pir (Boeung Kok 2)




                                                                                     June
                                                                                     2009
                                    2
                                                                                               March
                                                          January                              2009
                                                           2010                                                                                                                                        Voat Phnum

                                                                                                       Nov.
                                                               4                                       2008 Sep.
                                                                                                            2008
                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                               Phsar Thmei                      Phsar Chas
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Muoy

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kandal
           Phsar Depou Muoy                                                                 Mittakpheap                                                                                                                                                           Muoy
                                                                                                                                                              Monourom            Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                                  Thmei
                                                                                                                                                                                   Pir                                                  Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kandal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pir


                                Phsar Depou Pir
                                                                                            7 Makkara                                                                 Ou
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Phsar
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Thmei
                                                                                                                                                                    Ruessei                                   Bei
                                                                            Veal Vong                                                       Ou                         Bei
                                                                                                                                          Ruessei                                   Boeng Reang                                                          Chey Chumneah
                                 Phsar Depou Bei                                                                   Ou Ruessei               Pir   Ou Ruessei
                                                                                                                     Buon                           Muoy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JANUARY 7, 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 38298
                                  103° E                                104° E                                    105° E                                 106° E                                  107° E


   0    20          40      60 Kilometers              THAILAND                                                                                                               L A O P. D . R .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CAMBODIA
   0          20              40 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAND MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                                Samraong
                                                                        ODDAR                        Cheom Ksan                                                                                                                    Estimated Size and Location of
                                                                       MEANCHEY                                                                                       Siem Pang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ongoing Land Disputes,
                                                                                                                                    Kompong Sralao                                                                                        December 2010
14° N                                                                                                    PREAH VIHEAR                                                                      RATANAKIRI                      14° N




                                BANTEAY                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMMUNES WITH DISPUTES,
                                                                                                     Phnum Tbeng                 Melouprey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLDS INVOLVED:
                               MEANCHEY                            SIEM REAP                            Meanchey                                                                                  Bun
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phum Kompadou
                                                                                                                                                 STUNG               TRENG                        Long
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       < 100

                                     Sisophon            Kralanh                                                                                                                                                                                       100­300

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       301­500
                                                                                                                                                                Stung Treng                         Lomphat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       501­1000
                                                                       Siem Reap                                                                                                                                                                       > 1000

                                                                                                                       Rovieng                                                                                                                         UNKNOWN



                                                Battambang                                                                                                                                                                                           COMMUNES IN WHICH LAND TITLING OCCURRED




                                                                                                                                                      M ekong
13° N
                                                                       Tonle                                                                                                                                               13° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kohnieh
                   Pailin
                                                                         Sap                         KAMPONG THOM
                              BATTAMBANG                                                                                                                                                  MONDOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

             PAILIN                                                                                           Kampong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                                                              Thom                                                                          KIRI                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Chbar
                                                                                                                                                       KRATIE                                                                                         RIVERS

                                                                         Pursat                                                                                   Kratie                                                                              COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Senmonorom                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                           Kampong
                                                              PURSAT                       Chhnang



                                                                                         KAMPONG                                       Kampong
12° N                                                                                                                                  Cham                                                                                12° N
                                                                                         CHHNANG                                               KAMPONG
                                                                                                                                                 CHAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                          Krong Koh Kong                          KAMPONG                                        PREY VENG                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                              PHNOM PENH                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any

                                                                                    SPEU                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                                                     KOH KONG                     Kampong Speu                Ta Khmau            Prey Veng

                                                                                                                  KANDAL                                              V IE T N AM
                                                                                                                                               SVAY
                                                                                                          Chambak
                                                                                                                                              RIENG
                                                                                                                                                     Svay
11° N    Gulf o f                                                                                         Takeo                                      Rieng                                                                 11° N                                       CAMBODIA


        T hai la n d                                                                                    TAKEO
                                                                            KAMPOT
                                              Sihanoukville
                                                                          Kampot

                                            SIHANOUKVILLE                          Kep
                                                                                   KEP
                                 103° E                                  104° E                                   105° E                                 106° E                                  107° E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 7, 2011
