                                                                                                  53769
                                       The Inspection Panel


                          Final Report and Recommendation
                                                    On
                                    Request for Inspection

                           . Re: Request for Inspection
     Cambodia: Land Management and Administration Project (Credit No. 3650 - KH)


A. Background

      1. On September 4, 2009 the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection from the
         Center for Rousing Rights and Evictions (CORRE), which submitted the Request on
         behalf of communities affected by the Cambodia: Land Management and
         Administration Project (hereinafter referred to as the "Project" or "LMAP"). These
         communities are situated in the Boeung Kak Lake (BKL) area, within the Sras Chok
         commune, Daun Penh district in Phnom Penh. The Requesters asked the Panel to keep
         the names of affected people and villages where they live confidential.

      2. The Panel registered the Request for Inspection on September 24, 2009. Management
         submitted its Response to the Request on November 2,2009 1

      3. A Panel team visited Cambodia from November 16 - 19, 2009, to determine the
         eligibility of the Request for Inspection. On December 2, 2009, the Panel submitted its
         Report and Recommendation to the Executive Directors2  The Panel found the Request
         and the Requesters eligible but at that time refrained from making a recommendation
         on whether an investigation is warranted, noting that it expected to be able to make
         such determination no later than March 31, 2010. In the Panel's view, this would give a
         further chance to Management to establish a dialogue with the Government of
         Cambodia and other Development Partners to address the concerns of the Requesters.

      4. The Board approved the Panel recommendation on December 16, 2009, on a non-
         objection basis.

I Management Response to the Request for an Inspection Panel Review of the Cambodia Land Management and
Administration Project (Management Response), October 30, 2009, attached as Annex II to the Inspection Panel
Report and Recommendation, INSPIR2009-0006, dated December 7,2009.
2 Inspection Panel Report and Recommendation Cambodia: Land Management and Administration Report and
Recommendation, December 7, 2009, INSPIR2009-0006. This eligibility report contains the Request for Inspection
and Management Response.
     5. The present report contains the Panel's final recommendation on, whether an
        investigation of the allegations raised by the Requesters is warranted.

B. The Project

     6. The Project aimed to assist the Borrower's ''program of actions, objectives and policies
         designed to improve land tenure security and promote the development of efficient land
         markets" (the "Program.,,)3 The Project's specific objectives were: "to assist the
         Borrower in its efforts to implement the'Program, which includes (i) the development of
         adequate national policies, a regulatory framework and institutions for land
         administration; (ii) the issuance and registration of titles in rural and urban areas in
         the Project Provinces; and (iii) the establishment of an efficient and transparent land
       , administration system." 4 According to the Management Response, the Project was
         designed as the first phase of a long term program aimed at supporting good
         governance and greater access for the poor to basic social services and economic
         opportunities.

     7. The Project was partially financed by an IDA Credit to the Royal Government of
        Cambodia (RGC) in an amount of nineteen million three hundred thousand Special
        Drawing Rights (SDR 19,300,000), about US$ 23.4 million equivalent. The Credit was
        approved by the Board of Executive Directors in Fe~ruary 2002 and became effective
        in June 2002. The Closing Date was scheduled for December 31, 2009. However, on
        September 7, 2009, the Government of Cambodia ,cancelled the undisbursed balance of
        the Credit. .

      8.    The Ministry of Land Management, Urban Planning and Construction (MLMUPC)
           was responsible for Project implementation. A Project Management Office (PMO) was
           established within the MLMUPC. The Municipal Governors, within the Ministry of
           Interior, were responsible for declaring the adjudication areas, i.e. the declaration that
           would launch the titling process.

C. The Request

      9. The Requesters represented communities in the BKL area within the Sras Chok
         'commune' in Phnom Penh. They stated that members of the Project affected
         communities suffered serious harm from the design and implementation of the Project
         and claimed that these issues needed to be urgently addressed because further, severe
         harm could be caused in the very near future. According to the Request, following
         public notice that the commune area would become an adjudication zone for purposes
         of land registration under the LMAP, the residents of the BKL communit~es requested
         that their land claims be investigated, as provided for by the legal procedure developed
         under the LMAP and adopted by the Government. The Request claimed that people

3 Development Credit Agreement (DCA) (Land Management and Administration Project) between Kingdom of
Cambodia and International Development Association, dated March 27, 2002.
4 DCA, Schedule 2 (Description of the Project).


                                                                                                       2
           were however, denied their requests for land claim investigations on the ground that
           these lands were within a development zone. According to the Request, in 2007, in the
           same month that the adjudication record was posted in the commune, a lease agreement
           was signed between the municipality to which the commune belongs and a private
           developer, covering the area where the Requesters currently live.

       10. The Requesters stated that in 2008, when the developer began its works, residents of
           the communities started facing pressure and intimidation to leave the area and, a year
           later, many families received formal eviction notices giving them a one-week deadline
           to accept one of three compensation options. These options were: cash compensation,
           relocation in a site many kilometers away, and finally, onsite housing coupled with
           temporary relocation while waiting for the construction of the houses to be completed
           in about four years. The Requesters argued that the Project, which aimed at creating a
           centralized and formal land registration process, in fact weakened and degraded the
           land tenure of the customary land owners because the Project ''failed to formalize their
         . tenure" and did not "transfer their customary rights under formalized land titles."

       11. According to the Requesters, other sub-components of the Project remained
           unimplemented. They referred in particular to the Public Awareness Community
           Participation (P ACP) sub-component, according to which Project affected people were
           to be informed and involved in the registration and adjudication process and NGOs
           were to be contracted for the implementation of the PACP.

       12. The Request also mentioned the lack of a functioning dispute resolution mechanism
           that was envisaged under the Project. The Requesters claimed that, although included in
           the Project, after seven years of Project implementation, no legal assistance was offered
           to affected people under the LMAP.

       13. The Requesters stated that they welcomed the Bank's efforts since February 2009 but
           noted that "the harm caused by seven years of inadequate supervision of the project has
           in no way been mitigated by the Bank's recent efforts." They reiterated that hundreds of
           families were already evicted from their land and had to accept "inadequate
           compensation under conditions ofduress" because they lacked legal assistance.

D. Management Response

       14. The Management Response noted that according to the Project Appraisal Document
           (PAD) "no eviction, involuntary resettlement or land acquisition was anticipated
           during the Project." It added however that the DCA provided that the Project had to be
           carried out in accordance with Envirortmental and Social Guidelines. These included a
           Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), the application of which would be triggered in
           case of evictions from State land under the components of the Project providing for
           systematic and sporadic titling. 5 Management further indicated that the RPF would

5 Management Response, ~30. The Response indicates that the Land Law establishes a modem registration and land
titling system. The latter includes systematic titling, which covers all holdings in a given area, and sporadic titling,
which covers one parcel at a time.

                                                                                                                       3
          apply in three cases, namely in case of "a) the eviction from State land of individuals
          who had occupied it prior to August 30, 2001, the date of the enactment of the 2001
          Land Law, following titling of such land in the name of the State ; (b) the eviction from
          State land titled in the name of the State of individuals who had occupied it prior to
          August 30, 2001, because of the need to use such land for the carrying out of civil
          works under the Project; and (c) the extension bl the State of Right of Way (ROW)
          claims that adversely affected possession rights.".

      15. The Response further noted that, according to the PAD, "the Project will not title land
          in areas where disputes are likely until agreements are reached on the status of the
          land. 7" In addition, the titling programs supported by the Project would not cover
          informal settlers or "squatters" on State land as the project was not conceived as a way
          to regularize informal settlements. 8

      16. Management stated that the Project had delivered "significant development benefits in
          several areas" as it helped the establishment of a modem .land administration system,
          which led to registering and titling more than one million parcel of land in a cost
          effective manner at around $11 per title. At the same time, Management acknowledged
          that improvements in the land tenure security cannot be measured because of a lack of
          relevant data and a methodology to collect those data.

      17. The Management Response stated that in May 2006 the Sras Chok commune in which
          the BKL area is located was declared an adjudication area. The commune was then
          demarcated and the results publicly displayed in January/February 2007. However, the
          BKL area wjthin the commune was not considered for demarcation because the
          Municipality of Phnom Penh (MPP) (within which Sras Chok commune is situated)
          claimed that BKL was State Public land. This, therefore, excluded BKL from titling,
          given that, under the Land Law, possession rights cannot be claimed on State Public
          Land.

      18. Management noted that in spite of the assertion that BKL was public land, plans for
          private development of the area were underway since 2005, and culminated in February
          2007 with the MPP signing a 99-year lease covering the BKL area with a private
          developer. In August 2008, the Government issued a sub-decree to convert the area
          from State Public land to State Private land. Management went on to state that residents
          of the area were then told that they would have to relocate and could accept one of three
          compensation options, which allegedly would be withdrawn after the deadlines for
          relocation expired. Management added that from August 2008 "forther pressure to
          relocate was brought to bear" on the residents when the developer started filling the
          BK lake causing structural damage and flooding to people's housing. 9 .

.6Management Response, ~31.
7 Management Response, ~35.
8 Management Response, ~36. In the early 2000s a separate program to address informal settlements was underway
with the support of various agencies and donors, including the United Nations Center for Human Settlements
(UNCHS). However, the Management Response indicates that the program was discontinued in 2004 and no other
frogram to regularize the tenure of informal settlements has since started.
  Management Response, ~48.

                                                                                                                 4
        19. In light of this, "Management concluded that!roper procedures were not followed in
            the adjudication of the Sras Chok commune ,,] , that the residents of the BKLarea were
            not given an opportunity to present their claims of their possession of the land and that
            there is no evidence that a transparent participatory process was carried out to
            determine the classification of the land in question as State Public Land.

        20. Based on the information gathered and described above, Management concluded that
            the RPF should have been applied to the displacements of the residents in the Sras
            Chok commune and the BKL area. In this regard, Management argued that the criteria
            for triggering the application of the RPF set forth in the DCA were met: the Sras Chok
            commune was an adjudication area where systematic titling was being carried out and,
            though no formal title to the State was issued, the lease signed with the private
            developer over the land can be viewed as a de facto determination of the land as State
            public land.

        21. The Management Response noted that an Enhanced Review Mission (ERM) was
            carried out in April 2009, which concluded, among other things, that shortcomings in
            the Project's design and implementation had led to a disconnect between the Project's
            success in the issuance of land titles and continuing insecurity of the poor in land
            tenure. It also noted that local authorities were excluding lands in adjudication areas
            from titling activities without following proper procedures and without allowing people
            access to information and dispute resolution mechanisms.

        22. Management also stated that the Bank's Regional Vice President (RVP) traveled to
            Phnom Penh to meet with senior Government officials in August 2009. The RVP
            reiterated the request for the moratorium on evictions and offered to allocate Bank
            resources for the resettlement of the BKL communities. According to Management, the
            RVP proposed to the Government to suspend jointly the Project while the national
            policy framework was improved, but the Government followed with a request to cancel
            the undisbursed balance of the Credit on September 7,2009.

        Proposed Actions by Management

        23. Management proposed actions to address the Requesters' concerns, which were focused
            on two fronts and emphasized that these require cooperating with the Government and
            the other Development Partners. Management stated that,

                  "[ijt will work with the Government and Development Partners towards ensuring
                  that the communities who are resettled from the BKL area will be supported in a
                  way consistent with the agreed Resettlement Policy Framework; and,

                  It will continue to engage the Government and Development Partners to ensure
                  that communities that need to be resettled in the future would benefit from a



\0   Management Response, ~49.

                                                                                                    5
                  resettlement policy that meets appropriate standards and from fair and
                  independent dispute resolution mechanisms. ii "

        24. Management recognized that the resettlement packages offered to people resettled from
            the BKL area were not in accordance with the RPF, and thus committed to undertake an
            assessment of social impacts of the resettlement on the affected. communities.
            Management proposed to work with the Government and the Development Partners to
            ensure that people were supported on the same basis as if the RPF applied. If the
            Government did not respond on this, Management stated that it would request the
            Government to allow the Bank to carry out the assessment on its own so as to develop a
            plan to mitigate negative impacts and improve social and economic opportunities.

        25. Management was also concerned about living conditions and livelihood opportunities
            in and around the resettlement sites and encouraged the Government to improve these
            sites. The Response added that the Bank would pursue the opportunity to use Bank
            funds for this purpose. The Bank was also encouraging the Government to mitigate the
            environmental impacts of filling the BK Lake.

        26. In addition, Management stated that it would try to work with the Government to
            improve the capacity of existing dispute resolution mechanisms as well as the capacity
            of communities and NGOs to use them. Furthermore, it would continue to try to engage
            the Government in finalizing a national resettlement policy framework to mitigate
            impacts of resettlement on affected people and ensure a fair and systematic approach to
            resettlement activities. Management added that the Government was already working in
            this direction: a draft Law on Expropriation had been prepared as well as a sub-decree
            on resettlement. Guidelines for urban informal settlements were also being톎iscussed.

        27. Management further stated that engagement with the Government would also focus on
            improving conditions at various resettlement sites in the country, especially of people
            resettled from State Public Land. Management planned to use other projects to support
            land tenure and livelihood for poor communities. Finally, as the Country Assistance
            Strategy (CAS) will be redefined in 2010, Management stated that it would initiate a
            consultative process to redefine the Bank's role in Cambodia and to identify areas of
            support and cooperation with the Government.

E. Eligibility of the Request for Inspection

        28. The Panel reviewed the Request and Management's Response. A Panel team visited
            Cambodia from November 16 - 19, 2009. During their visit, the Panel team met with
            the organization representing the Requesters, signatories of the Requests for Inspection
            and other affected people, as well as with other NGOs operating in Cambodia that are
            concerned, in particular, about issues of evictions of communities around Phnom Penh.
            The Panel also met with Government officials, Bank Management in Cambodia, other
            Bank staff, and representatives of the Bank's Development Partners and other donors.



11   Management Response, 176.

                                                                                                  6
          The Panel also visited the community where the Requesters live and the resettlement
          site where some affected people who chose the relocation option now live.

      29. The Panel determined in its' Report and Recommendation, dated December 2, 2009 12,
          that the Request satisfied the eligibility criteria for an Inspection, as set forth in the
          1993 Resolution establishing the Panel 13 and its 1999 Clarifications 14  However, due to
          the special circumstances described below, the Panel recommended to defer a decision
          on whether to recommend an investigation.

      30. In its Report and Recommendation, the Panel noted that Management in its Response
          indicated its commitment to initiate a dialogue with the Government of Cambodia and
          other Development Partners to develop concrete actions for communities that were
          evicted and the ones that face involuntary resettlement. .

      31. In light of the foregoing, the Panel refrained from making a recommendation on
          whether an investigation was warranted, but rather decided to await further
          developments, especially in view of the fact that Management was trying to establish a
          dialogue with the Government to address the concerns of the Requesters. The Panel
          stated in its Report and Recommendation that it expected to be able to make a
          determination no later than March 31, 2010, as to whether an investigation would be
          merited.

F. Observations

      32. In considering whether to recommend an investigation, the Panel has followed up on
          the status of Management's progress in its dialogue with the Government and in the
          actions proposed in the Management Response.

      33. Since submitting its first eligibility report, the Panel has remained in touch with
          Management and the representatives of the Requesters on developments in Cambodia
          regarding the situation of the Requesters and the broader efforts of the Bank to ensure
          that communities that need to be resettled in the future can benefit from a resettlement
          policy that meets appropriate standards.

      34. Management informed the Panel that it initiated a dialogue with the Government of
        . Cambodia. Management indicated that there seems to be commitment and momentum
          to strengthen the resettlement policy in the country. However, both Management and
          the representatives of the Requesters indicated that no progress has been made on the
          ground to implement specific actions that ensure "that the communities who are
          resettled from the BKL area will be supported in a way consistent with the agreed
          Resettlement Policy Framework. ,,15


12 INSPIR2009-0006.
13 Resolution No. IDA 93-6 of September 22, 1993 (hereinafter "the Resolution")
14 The 1999 Clarifications to the Resolution (hereinafter "the 1999 Clarifications") are contained in the "Conclusions
of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel", dated April 20, 1999.
15 Management Response, ~76.


                                                                                                                    7
    35. As noted earlier, among the proposed actions included in Management Response, to
        which Management committed, is an assessment of social impacts of the affected
        communities in BKL area. The Panel was unable to confirm that any progress was
        made on this assessment, which, according to the Requesters, could constitute a step
        forward to addressing their concerns. The Panel was informed that the Requesters'
        situation remains much the same as at the time of the submission of their Request for
        Inspection in September 2009 and the visit of the Panel to Cambodia the following
        November.

    36. The .Panel welcomes the progress made by Bank Management to build an important
        dialogue with the Government of Cambodia and notes the critical importance of the
        World Bank engagement in land sector issues in Cambodia, essential to the co~try' s
        sustainable development.

    37. The Panel notes, however, that the actions proposed in the Management Response were
        not implemented in a way that could satisfactorily address the Requesters' concerns.
        The Panel further observes that issues and concerns of the communities affected by the
        Project, which were presented in the Request for Inspection and explained in further
        detail in the Panel's Eligibility Report and in the Management Response itself, are of a
        very serious nature. They raise important questions of compliance with Bank policies
        and harm to Project affected communities that could only be assessed as part of an
        investigation.

G. Conclusion

    38. As stated in the first Eligibility Report dated December 2, 2009, the Request and the
        Requesters meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution that established the
        Inspection Panel and the 1999. Clarifications.

    39. In order to make an independent assessment of Management's compliance with Bank
        policies and procedures and related issues of harm in the context of the Project, the
        Panel would need to conduct an appropriate review of all relevant facts and applicable
        policies and procedures. This can only be done in the context of an investigation of the
        issues of compliance and harm raised by the Request.

    40. In view of the foregoing, the Panel recommends that the Board of Executive Directors
        approves an investigation of the claims and matters raised by the Request for
        Inspection. The Panel notes that the investigation would take into account progress in
        the implementation of the actions noted in the Management Response and other actions
        being carried out to address the concerns raised by the Requesters.




                                                                                               8
