                                           Document o f
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: 29767-ET



                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT

                           INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR9.8 MILLION
                              (US$14.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             AND A

                                      PROPOSEDGRANT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 38 MILLION
                              (US$55.7 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                   FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                             FORA

                           PRODUCTIVE SAFETY NET PROJECT

                        INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHE

                          PRODUCTIVE SAFETY NET PROGRAM

                                        November 3,2004


HumanDevelopment I11
Country Department6
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             CurrencyUnit = EthiopianBirr (ETB)
                                   US$ 1.O     = ETB 8.65 (ExchangeRateEffectiveOctober 25, 2004)
                                US$1.4678 = SDR 1(ExchangeRate EffectiveSeptember 30,2004)

                                                FISCAL YEAR

                                               July 8-    July 7

                                   ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AFA      Annual FiduciaryAssessment                    IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
APL      Adaptable ProgramLoan                         SBAR     Joint Budget andAid Review
AWPB     Annual Work Programand Budget                 KFSTF    Kebele Food SecurityTask Force
BDA      Budget Disbursementand Accounting System      M&E      Monitoringand Evaluation
BOARD    BureauofAgriculture and RuralDevelopment      MDG      MillenniumDevelopmentGoal
CAS      CountryAssistance Strategy                    MEGS     MaharashtraEmploymentGuarantee Scheme
CDD      Community-DrivenDevelopment                   MERET    ManagingEnvironmentalResourcesto Enable
                                                                Transitionsto more sustainablelivelihoods
CFAA     Country FinancialAccountability Assessment    MIS      ManagementInformationSystem
CFSTF    CommunityFoodSecurity Task Force              MoARD    MinistryofAgricultureand RuralDevelopment
CIDA     CanadianInternationalDevelopment Agency       MoFED    Ministryof Finance and Economic Development
CPAR     CountryProcurementAssessmentReport            NBI      Nile BasinInitiative
DA       Development Agent                             NCB      NationalCompetitiveBidding
DCI      Development Cooperation Ireland               NGO      Non-GovernmentalOrganization
DFID     UKDepartmentfor InternationalDevelopment      PER      PublicExpenditureReview
DPPC     DisasterPrevention& PreparednessCommittee     PIM      ProgramImplementationManual
EGS      EmploymentGeneration Schemes                  PRSC     PovertyReductionStrategy Credit
EIA      EnvironmentalImpact Assessment                PSCAP    Public Sector Capacity BuildingProgram
EO1      Expressionsof Interest                        PSNP     ProductiveSafetyNet Program
ESMF     Environmentaland Social ManagementFramework   RFSCO    RegionalFoodSecurityCoordinationOffice
EU       EuropeanUnion                                 RFSSC    RegionalFoodSecurity Steering Committee
FM       FinancialManagement                           SDPRP    SustainableDevelopmentand PovertyReduction
                                                                Program
FMR      FinancialManagementReports                    SDR      StandardDrawingRights
FSCB     Food Security CoordinationBureau              SNNPR    SouthernNationsNationalities & People's Region
FSO      Food Security Office                          SOE      Statement of Expenditure
FSP      Food Security Program                         SPN      SpecificProcurementNotice
FY       FiscalYear                                    SWAP     Sector Wide Approach
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                        USAID    UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment
GTZ                                                    WFP      WorldFoodProgram
HIViAIDS                                               WFSD     WoredaFood SecurityDesks
IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstructionand       WFSTF    WoredaFoodSecurityTask Force
         Development
IC       IndividualConsultants                         WoFED    Woreda OfficeofFinance& EconomicDevelopment
ICB      InternationalCompetitiveBidding               ws-      Watershedmanagement-IntegratedDevelopment of
                                                       IDEN     the EasternNile



                                    Vice President:      GobindNankani
                                 Country Director:       Ishac Diwan
                                   Sector Manager:       Laura Frigenti
                               Task Team Leader:         Trina S. Haaue

                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                              ETHIOPIA
                                     EthiopiaProductiveSafety Net Project

                                                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                            Page
  A.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                        ..............................................................................  1
    1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                         1
    2.  Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                               2
    3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                         3

  B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                   ..............................................................................................................   3

    1.  Lending instrumentand program objective and phases......................................................                                              3
    2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                        5
    3.  Project components.............................................................................................................                       5
    4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                        6
    5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection..............................................................                                       9
  C .  IMPLEMENTATION               .....................................................................................................................     13
     1. Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) ..........................................................................                                    13

    2.  Institutional and implementationarrangements ................................................................                                         14

    3.  Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomeshesults ................................................................                                         15
                    . .
    4.  Sustainability.....................................................................................................................                   15
    5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                                      16

    6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                                    19

  D .  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                   ..............................................................................................................     20
     1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                                 20
    2.   Technical...........................................................................................................................                 21
     3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................                21
    4.   Social.................................................................................................................................              22
     5.  Environment......................................................................................................................                    22
     6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................                      23

     7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                                24


This document has a restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                    .
without World Bank authorization                           .

ANNEX1:COUNTRYAND SECTORORPROGRAMBACKGROUND                                                  ..........................................................      25

ANNEX2: MAJOR RELATEDPROJECTSFINANCED THE BANKAND/OR OTHERAGENCIES   BY                                                                           ............29
ANNEX3: RESULTSFRAMEWORKAND MONITORING                                   ............................................................................        31

ANNEX4: DETAILEDPROJECT            DESCRIPTION             .........................................................................................         35

ANNEX5: PROJECTCOSTS        .......................................................................................................................          43

ANNEX6: IMPLEMENTATION          ARRANGEMENTS                   ......................................................................................        45

ANNEX7: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT                   AND DISBURSEMENT                      ARRANGEMENTS                    .....................................    59

ANNEX8: PROCUREMENT        ARRANGEMENTS                  ...........................................................................................         71

ANNEX9: LINKAGES GRADUATION
                  AND                              .................................................................................................         78

ANNEX10: ECONOMICAND FINANCIALANALYSIS                               ................................................................................        83

ANNEX11: SAFEGUARD POLICYISSUES                   ..................................................................................................          91

ANNEX12: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION                                    ........................................................................        93

ANNEX13: DOCUMENTS      INTHEPROJECTFILE                       ......................................................................................         94

ANNEX14: STATEMENTOFLOANS CREDITS         AND                      ..................................................................................         95


MAPIBRD33662  ......................................................................................................................................          98

                                          ETHIOPIA
                       ETHIOPIA PRODUCTIVE SAFETY NET PROJECT

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                      Africa Region Office
                                            AFTH3

 Date: November 3,2004                           Team Leader: Trina S. Haque
 Country Director: Ishac Diwan                   Sectors: Other social services (100%)
 Sector Manager: Laura Frigenti                  Themes: Social risk coping; nutrition andfood
                                                 security; social risk reduction; other social
                                                 protection and risk management;vulnerability
                                                 assessment and monitoring

1Project ID: PO87707                             Environmental screening category: B
 Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan      Safeguardscreeningcategory: S3


 [ ] Loan     [XI Credit [XI Grant    [ ] Guarantee  [ ] Other:

 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): Phase I:$70.00; Phase 11: $150.00
 Proposedterms: StandardIDA/Grant terms, with a maturity of 40 years, including a grace
 period o f ten vears.




 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                         69.4                  0.6              70.0
 ASSOCIATION
 Financing Gap
 Total:                                            69.5                  0.6              70.1


 ResponsibleAgency: Ministry of Agriculture andRuralDevelopment




                               (APL 2): January 1,2007     End: December 31,2009
 Expected effectiveness date (APL 1): December 30,2004
 Expected closing date (APL 1): December 31,2006

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PADA23                                                                            [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                           [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                          [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risksrated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                           [XIYes [ ] N o

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                           [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

The development objectives o fphase Iofthe Program are to assist the Governmentto shift from a
relief-oriented to a productive and development-oriented safety net by (i)  providing predictable,
multi-annual resources, (ii) replacing food with grants as the primary medium o f support, and (iii)
makingresources available for critical capital, technical assistance, and administrative costs.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3, TechnicalAnnex 4

The project will finance 2 components: (i) Net Activities, which include a public works
                                             Safety
program and activities to support labor-poor households; and (ii)  Institutional Support, which
includes capacity building, equipment, and monitoring and evaluation.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 11

Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP
7.50)

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD C.6
Board presentation:

None

Loadcredit effectiveness:

Inaform satisfactory to the Association, the Government ofEthiopiamust:


     0  adopt the Program ImplementationManual (PIM);
     0  (i) andadoptfinancialmanagementguidelinesandanactionplanforbuilding
            develop
        financial management capacity at the Federal, regional, and woreda levels on the basis o f the
        follow-up financial management capacity assessment, and (ii) and submit the terms
                                                                        prepare
        o f reference for appointment o f an accounting firm to review financial statements at the
        woreda level;
     0  submit: (i)report detailing completion of an awareness creation andtraining program at the
                    a
        woreda and kebele levels, and (ii) an action plan for woreda capacity building based on the
        woreda capacity assessment;
     0  open the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit; and

   0  appoint key staff at the Federal, regional and woreda levels, including, at a minimum: (i)  at
      the Federal level: the head o f department, safety net and other food security programs, two
      technical staff on safety net, and, at least one finance head and an accountant; (ii) the
                                                                                           at
      regional level: the head o fthe regional food security office, depending on the structure o fthe
      region at least one accountant either inBOARDor at the Regional food security office with
      the primary responsibility for the Program, and, at least two technical staff inregional food
      security office; (iii)
                           at the woreda level: the head o f Woreda Rural Development Office in
      each program woreda, at least one food security desk officer, one technical staff inthe
      woreda food security desk, or Woreda Rural Development Office, and at least one finance
      officer with the primary responsibility for food security, and at least two cashiers inthe
      woreda finance office; and (iv) at least one development agent ineach participating kebele,
      all with satisfactory qualifications and experience.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

Financial Covenants .


   0  The Food Security CoordinationBureau(FSCB) will submitthe auditedprogram accounts to
      IDA ninemonths after the end ofeach fiscal year. The fiscal year ends on July 7 of each
      year. The audited financial statement will include all sources o f funds for the Program,
      including other donors and the government.
   0  The FSCB will submit quarterly Financial Management Reports to IDA forty-five days after
      the endo feach calendar quarter.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Countryand sector issues

Despite a period o f good macro-economic outcomes, supported by significant economic and
governance reforms, coupled with public investmentthroughout the 1990sand early 2000s,
many Ethiopians remain poor andvulnerable. The per capita income i s estimated at US$100 and
roughly 50 percent o f the population are poor. Many more are vulnerable because a single large
shock can overwhelm their self-protectionmechanisms. The cumulative effects o f these repeated
shocks leadto hunger and destitution.

As aresult, each year Ethiopia appeals for emergency food aid to meetthe consumption needs of
at least five million people who are chronically food insecure'. Although this internationally
financed humanitarianassistance i s substantial (estimated at about US$265 million a year on
average between 1997-2002) and has saved many lives, recent evaluations including the Public *:
ExpenditureReview 2004 (PER) andthe Risk andVulnerability Assessment 2004 show that this
assistance did not manage to protect livelihoods, generate community assets, or preserve physical
and human capital assets to the extent that could have been expected.

                        Figure 1:Populationin Need of FoodAid, by year (1994-2004)


                                                                                                      13 215 514




  12000000                                                                                   I
              ~

  iOOOO000  -                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                   I
  8000000                                                                                                  \       i




  6000000




  4000000




  2000000




                 1994   1995   1996      1997      1998       1999     2000    2001     2002     2003        2004

     Source: DPPC


Poverty i s widespread inbothrural and urban areas, with food insecurity as one o fthe defining
features of poverty inEthiopia. The magnitude o f both poverty and food-insecurity i s much
greater indrought prone rural areas than inurban areas. The major causes of food insecurity in
Ethiopia include land degradation, recurrent drought, poor and inadequate management o f risk,


   Food insecurity is defined as a lack o f access, at all times, to enough food for an active, healthy life, and includes at
a minimum:a) the unavailability o f nutritionally adequate and safe foods, and b) the inability to acquire socially
acceptable foods ina timely manner. Chronic food insecurity refers to the persistence o fthis situation over time,
particularly inthe absence o f idiosyncratic or covariate shocks.


                                                               1

populationpressure, and subsistence agricultural practices dominated by rain-fed farming and
characterized by low inputs and low outputs.

The problem o f food insecurity has become worse inrecent years. The average population in
need o f food aid inthe past ten years (1994-2004) i s approximately five million people (Figure
1). By comparison, the average o f 6.4 millionpeople inthe most recent three years (2001-2004),
excluding 2003, i s higher thanthe ten-year historical average or the average o f seven years prior
(1994-2000). These rising trends do not completely capture the severity o f food insecurity in
exceptional years, such as 2003, when around 13 million people requiredemergency food aid.
The foregoing analysis suggests that inany given year, there exists betweenfive and seven
million chronically food insecure people inneedo f assistance.

The Government o f Ethiopia has decided that there i s an urgent needto address the needs o f
these chronically food insecure households via a productive safety net system financed through
multi-year predictable resources rather than through a systemdominated by emergency
humanitarian aid. Onthis basis, withinthe framework o f the national Food Security Program
(FSP), which emphasizes the three interrelatedpillars o f food availability, access to food and
utilization, the Government has decided to develop a new Productive Safety Net Program
(PSNP), which i s one o f several instruments under the broader FSP o f the Government aimed at
reducing food insecurity. The details o fthe linkages between the PSNP and other FSP
interventions are inAnnex 9. This policy shift has beenstrongly supported by the safety net
donor group who have worked closely with the Government throughout the design o f the
Program.2 The Government andthe donors share a common goal to shift the financing o f the
program from food aid to development-oriented grants.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

There are three reasons for Bank involvement inthe PSNP. First, the Government asked for the
Bank's technical assistance and contribution insubstantially redesigningthe existing relief-
oriented and food-financed systemto a more productive and mostly grant-financed system.
Moreover, the Bank has beeninvolved inpolicy dialogue on issues relatedto food security
duringthe planningprocess for the Sustainable Development and Poverty ReductionProgram
(SDPRP) and subsequentlyunder the policy umbrella o f the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
series (PRSC Iand PRSC I1in2004); through on-going operations such as the Food Security
Project (2003), the Pastoral Community Development Project (2003), and the Emergency
Drought Recovery Project (also 2003); and through a strong analytical work program such as the
Safety Net chapter o fthe PER (2004) andthe Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (2004). The
operation i s also an important element o f the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as
reflected inthe recent CAS progress report (September 2004). Second,the Bank's financial
contribution and support o fthe transition o f Ethiopia's PSNP i s seen as critical inleveraging
other donor partner financing and ensuringthat the Government's policy shift remains on track.
Third, the Bank i s well-placed to draw upon global experience and successful innovations in
safety net design andto advise the Government inadapting it to the Ethiopian context.




 This group is composedof CIDA, DCI, DFID, EU,USAID, WFP andthe World Bank.


                                                  2

3. Higherlevel objectivesto which the project contributes

The PSNP is a major instrument for achieving the Government's clearly stated goal o f reducing
vulnerability and attaining food security for approximately five million chronically food insecure
people by 2009. It i s a key element o f the Bank's and the donor groups' support to the
Government's goals. The Program i s expected to contribute to the reduction inthe number o f
Ethiopians suffering from extremehunger, malnutrition, and poverty (MDG l),       and to the
restoration and rehabilitation o f the environment by strengthening soil and water conservation
(MDG7). Itwill also buildandmaintainpublic and/or community infrastructure (e.g. rural
roads). The provision o f grants rather than food will enable small-holder farmers to purchase
inputs(e.g. fertilizer) and stimulatethe development ofrural markets.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrumentandprogramobjectiveandphases

The overall development objective o f the PSNP i s to contribute to improving the productivity
and efficiency o f transfers to food insecure households, reducing household vulnerability,
improving resilience to shocks and promoting sustainable community development. First, the
framework for assisting the chronically food insecure population will shift from being based on
an annual emergency appeal systemto one that i s predictable and multi-annual. The
predictability provides better insurance to beneficiaries, minimizes asset erosion and encourages
better integrated local development planning. Second, the community-based investmentsto be
financed by the Program will receive improved technical input and managerial support, which
are explicitly budgeted for inthe new financing framework. Finally, the PSNP i s designedas part
o f a larger FSP o f the Government. Therefore, the Program will address not only immediate
food insecurity, but also contribute to addressing the underlying causes o f food insecurity.

AnAdaptable ProgramLoan(APL) will beusedto finance the PSNP. The first phase will cover
approximately 24 months and the second phase, approximately 36 months. However, ifthe
Government completes the activities definedunder the triggers for phase I1o f the APL, then
phase I1can begin earlier. The APL has been chosen as the most appropriate instrument, because
it provides flexible support to on-going reforms ofthe Government's food security interventions,
and allows for adaptation o fthe project designand financing modalities over time. The
Government has adopted a "learning by doing" approach to program implementation, therefore,
it is importantthat as lessons emerge from implementation, they are incorporated into program
design. To support the Government's approach, the Bank's assistance will be dividedinto two
phases:

PhaseI:Transition(2005 to approximatelyend 20061
The first phase (US$70 million) will support the transition from the current annual emergency
appeal systembased on food transfers to a multi-annual predictable approach based
predominantly on grants as the form o f assistance. This first phase will finance reforms to
various aspects o f the current system o f providing support to the chronically food insecure,
including: (a) providing grants to households as well as resources for critical non-transfer costs
(capital inputs and program overheads) to ensure that the proposed public works sub-projects



                                                  3

create productive community assets; (b) improving transparent targeting o f beneficiaries, by
providing communities with clear guidelines and training; (c) usingparticipatory planning
approaches to promote community planning as the basis for prioritizing public works sub-
projects; (d) placing a strong emphasis on integrating public works sub-projects withina critical
watershed management framework; (e) guaranteeing the availability o f appropriate technical
support from local and regional governments to ensure that the assets created are properly
designed; and (f) ensuringthat the safety net i s scalable so that intimes of increased localized
need, the PSNP can expand to cover that need, without automatically resortingto an international
emergency appeal. Phase Io f the APL will support Government's efforts to strengthenthe
institutional foundations and deliverymechanisms o f the Program. Capacity building efforts will
focus on strengthening implementationcapacity at the local level, and providing support to a
financial management system based on the Government's ExpenditureManagement and Control
Program.

The first phase o f the APL financing will be part o f overall financing of the Government's
Program from several other donor partners including CIDA, DCI, DFID, EU, USAID and WFP.
The Government is considering advancing the program resources that would be necessary to
address any gap infinancing.

Phase 11: Consolidation (approximately 2007-end 20091
The second phase (around US$lSO million) aims to consolidate the ob-jectiveso f phase Iand
continue to strengthen technical capacity inall aspects o f program implementation. Moreover, it
will support efforts inachieving strong synergies with other interventions inorder to promote
graduationfrom chronic food insecurity. Specific improvements will dependon the institutional
and reform opportunities that arise inphase I,but they are expected to include; (a) further
improvements intargeting and community planning; (b) enhanced coordination with other parts
o f the FSP, and other relevant infrastructure, health, nutrition and educationprograms to ensure a
more comprehensive approach to addressing the underlyingcauses o f food insecurity; (c) further
assistance inmonitoring and evaluation, including the implementation o f recommendations from
the first detailedprocess evaluation andtechnical audit, and (d) further improvement inthe
financial management system's capacity.

                        TABLE1:TRIGGERSFORTHE SECONDPHASEOFTHE APL

Capacity       .Full implementation of a capacitybuilding program to deliver ongoing training at regional, woreda, and
Building       kebele levels, includingmodules on technical, targeting and planning, andprocedural aspects of the PSNP.
Monitoring     .A studyto further develop the effectiveness of the direct support component is completed,
&              recommendations are formulated and, where appropriate, incorporated into the PSNP.
Evaluation     .A study onthe outcomes from using deferred payments i s undertaken, and recommendationsare
System         incorporated into the PSNP.
               .A beneficiary database i s establishedas part of the establishment ofthe ManagementInformation System.
               .A full process evaluation is undertaken, recommendationsformulated and incorporatedinto the PSNP.
Linkages       .A beneficiary assessment completedon the effectiveness of PSNP transfers and linkagesbetweenPSNP
               coverage and other food security interventions.
Financial      .The financial management systemofthe PSNP will be updatedregularly to be compatible with the
Management    reform directions underthe Government's Expenditure Management and Control Program.




                                                         4

Some o fthe key achievements of the first phase would also constitute triggers for moving to the
second phase. These are described inTable 1above.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The development objectives of phaseIof the Program are to assistthe Government to shift from
a relief-orientedto a productive and development-oriented safety net by (i)    providing
predictable, multi-annual resources, (ii)  replacing food with grants as the primary mediumo f
support, and (iii) making resources available for critical capital, technical assistance, and
administrative costs. Moreover, the project aims to significantly strengthen community
involvement by supporting community targeting and local-level participatory planning as core
principles o f the program. Furthermore, emphasis will be placed on relating public works
activities to the underlyingcauses o f food insecurity, especially with respect to soil and water
conservation measures. The proposed measures are expected to leadto significant improvements
inthe productivity ofthe safety net over the current humanitariansystem.

Progress by end of phase Io f the program will rely on the Government's M&E system. As such
the M&E system will report targets and actual accomplishments. Progress will be measured by
the following key results indicators.
    (a) at least 95 percent o f eligible beneficiaries are confirmed as chronically food insecure;
    (b) at least 50 percent of eligible beneficiaries participatinginpublic works or indirect
        support have received grantsrather than food;
    (c) at least 95 percent o f disbursements to eligible beneficiaries for public works subprojects
        have been made according to identified needs;
    (d) at least 95 percent o f disbursementsto eligible beneficiaries for direct support have been
        made according to identifiedneeds;
    (e) at least 75 percent o f capital and administrative budget used by woredas;
    (f) at least 75 percent o f kebeles have developed and approved safety net plans, taking into
        account community preferences;
    (g) at least 60 percent o fpublic works sub-projects are assessedas technically sound;
    (h) at least 50 percent ofworedas are presentingaccurate andcomplete financial reports;
    (i)atleast60percentofallparticipatingworedasarereportingfullyonphysicalprogress;
        and
    ('j)amanagementinformationsystemthatprovidessufficientandtimelyinformationforuse
        by management has beenestablished and is operational.

3. Project components

The proposedAPL will finance the following two key components, details o fwhich are provided
inAnnex 4:

Component 1:Safety Net Activities

a) Labor-intensive public work will provide grants to households whose adults participate in
public works sub-projects. Sub-projects to be undertaken as part o f public works will be
determinedlocally by the beneficiary communities through an annual, participatory planning
process. With appropriate technical assistance being provided by woredas and regions, sub-


                                                    5

projects will focus on, but are not limitedto, environmentalrehabilitation. A specific budget for
administrative costs and equipment will be allocated. Furthermore, as the most appropriate time
for undertaking public works i s during the dry season, and the period o f most need for food
insecure households i s duringthe rainy season, a system o f deferred payment o f grants will be
established. Public works participants will receive 50 percent o fthe grant at the end o f the month
inwhichthey haveworked, and 50 percent willbe deferreduntillater inthe year. This will
ensure that households have the resources available whenthey are most needed, that works can
be undertaken at the most appropriate time, and that public works sub-projects do not compete
withthe intensive agricultural season.

b) Direct support will provide grants to households who are labor-poor and cannot undertake
public works. Beneficiaries will include, but are not limitedto, orphans, pregnant and lactating
mothers, elderly households, other labor-poor, high risk households with sick individuals (such
as people living with HIVIAIDS),and the majority o f female-headed households with young
children.

Component 2: Institutional Support

This component will focus on strengthening all aspects o fprogram implementation, including (i)
capacity building at community level to strengthen beneficiary identification and local level
planning, financial management, procurement and technical training at woreda and regional level
to ensure that all sub-projects are appropriately designedand rapid response mechanisms are in
place to ensure smooth program implementation; (ii)       support to the development o f a monitoring
and evaluation framework and a program MIS.This includes the implementation o f a beneficiary
survey, and a detailed program "process" survey after the first 12months. It will also finance
several additional studies as part o f the shift to the second phase o f the APL; and (iii)
procurement o f essential goods and services.

4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

The Government's PSNP represents a substantial change from previous practices and has
incorporatedlessons from international and Ethiopian experience. The key issues that the
program design has addressed are the following:

a) An emergency relief system cannot address the underlying causes of food insecurity.

Issue: The annual emergency appeal system, used to provide assistance to chronically food
insecure households, has been relatively successful inensuring.minimum consumption and
guaranteeing survival for those households. However, as detailed inthe Risk and Vulnerability
Assessment (2004), chronically food insecure households need sustained, long-term
interventions to address the underlyingcauses o f their vulnerability. An annual appeal system i s
inconsistent with such an approach.

Program Response: The PSNP will provide a predictable multi-annual resource flow that will
maximize the productive elements of the safety net and will allow for sustained investments to
be made infood insecure communities. Recognizing that the food insecure population is not
static, however, the PSNP can be scaled up or down, dependingon emergingneed. The Program


                                                     6

will also be carefully coordinated withthe annual emergency appeal system, which will continue
to function for those (a muchreduced number) who remain outside the safety net.

b) Timely availability of resourcesis necessary in order to undertakeproductive activities.

Issue: The annual emergency systemhas built-indelays; once needs have beenidentified, it i s
still necessary to mobilize food aid from overseas. Given the time lags inherent in such a system
(which are only partially overcome by holding grain reserves in-country), food aid often does not
arrive at the appropriate time to undertake public works and arrives only once the lean period has
already set in.

Program Response: By providing resources ina predictable, multi-annual framework, the
Program will ensure resources are available ina timely fashion, allowing for the proper planning
and sequencing o f activities to maximize the returnsfrom public works.

c) The use of food as a transfer, while valuable as a means of ensuring survival, is not an
effective long-term development tool.

Issue: Assistance to food insecure households has previously been financed by donors with in-
kindtransfers. While food has been important for meetingimmediate consumption shortfalls,
experience inboth Ethiopia andthe rest o f world shows that it i s limitedinits ability to empower
households to decide how best to meet their needs. Moreover, research has shown that use o f
food aid can be disruptiveto local markets; by increasinglocal supply o f food grains, it
suppresses local prices and hence local production. Rather than stimulate markets and encourage
the flow o f food into food deficit areas, food aid canhave the opposite effect.

Program Response: The Program will shift from the use o f food as the single means o f transfer
to grants as the preferred means of assistance to chronically food insecure households. However,
this will not happen immediately, since significant program resources will still be available only
as food. Where a shift to grants i s implemented, assistance will be provided insuch a way as to
ensure that households can use the grants to meet their consumption needs. The Program will
also implement grain and livestock price monitoring to gauge the impact o f increased availability
o f cash on local prices.

d) Proper planning and identijkation of activities are essentialto ensuring the relevance and
ownership of the created assets.

Issue; Evaluations o f previous public works efforts inEthiopia highlightedthat the untimely
arrival o f resources preventedthe integration o f public works sub-projects into the broader
community or woreda development planning process. This has ledto several important short-
comings that have limitedthe effectiveness o f previous public works: (i)  communities have not
hadthe opportunity to define their priorities with respect to public works, which has meant that
the assets created were not always wanted, or considered apriority for local communities; (ii)
communities did not understand the importance of certain public works sub-projects since they
were not involved inthe planningprocess, resulting ina reluctance to maintain assets once
constructed, and in some cases, the removal o f certain structures; and (iii)
                                                                            an integrated approach



                                                   7

was not usedinthe selection o f public works activities, since sub-projects were often undertaken
on an ad-hoc basis. This was particularly important with respect to watershed management,
where individual interventions are only successful when combined effectively with others. Thus
the usefulness o fassets created through public works was often limited. More recent programs in
Ethiopia (such as the World Food Program's (WFP) MERETprogram) have achievedmuch
better results by focusing on strengtheningthe planning component of public works.

Program Response: Participatory community planning forms a cornerstone o f the Government's
newprogram. This will be strengthened on an on-going basis through capacity building at the
community level.

e) The availability of non-transfer resources is criticalfor ensuring the creation of productive
assets.

Issue: The emergency appeal system, up untilnow, has been fundedby donors almost entirely
usingfood aid, with a very small percentage beingavailable inthe form o f cash resources. While
the focus o f public works i s to ensure that food insecure households receive the required
transfer, the effectiveness o f previous public works, particularly inEthiopia, have beenlimited
by the fact that a minimal level o fresources for non-transfers costs were not available. This has
ledto an overemphasis on transfers, and too little attentionto ensuringthat the assets created
through public works are sustainable and o f use to local communities.

Program Response: Underthe PSNP, woredas have at least 20 percent o f their program budget
to spend on complementary inputs. Moreover, this percentage may vary for sub-projects that will
need higher technical input, as long as the global ceiling i s not exceeded. While 20 percent i s
very highby Ethiopian standards (where inthe past public works was implementedwith very
little or no non-transfer component), this i s still very low when compared with experiences from
other countries3. Recent experiences, such as with public works sub-projects runby CARE, have
found that 20 percent i s an appropriate amount inthe Ethiopian context. This issue will be
monitored closely and, as part of the program process evaluation, will be adjusted either up or
down depending on demonstrated need and capacity.




  See "Systemic shocks and social protection; the role and effectiveness o f public works", Subbarrao, K, 2001


                                                         8

Table 2: Difference between the previous Employment Generation Schemes (EGS) and the
                                      new Safety Net Public Works

               Previous EGS activities                           New Safe@ Net Public Works


Framework          Annual emergency                                 Longer-term productive vision
                   No certainty on the amount of resourcesfor       External resourceswill be provided on a multi-annual
                   woredas.                                         basisthrough the safety net budget line ofthe
                   Dueto the natureofthe annualappeal               Government budget. This ensures availability of
Resources          process, resources often arrive too latefor a    resources from the start ofthe year allowing public
                   public works program given the season.           works to be undertakenat the most appropriatetime.
                   Resources often inadequatefor the needs of       Budgeting will be based on an improved needs
                   the food insecure.                               assessmentto ensure that woredas have sufficient
                   Because ofthe natureofthe emergency              resources to meet the needs of the food insecure.
                   response, limited resourceswere available
                   for capital inputs and administration of         Woredas will be given an appropriatebudget for capital

                   program, greatly limiting program                inputs into public works and other supporting activities.

                   effectiveness.                                   This will improve the quality of public works assets
                                                                    createdand where appropriate allow for more technically
                                                                    complex projects.
                   Public works were not plannedas part of a        The Program will be based on community priorities
                   broaderdevelopment strategyfor the               outlined inthe woreda developmentplan. Itwill
Planning           woreda, and did not take into account            therefore be carefully coordinated with other
                   issues of maintenanceand coordination            development activities and programsto ensure maximum
                   with other activities.                           synergies, and place public works inthe context of long-
                   Often lacked appropriateconsultation of          term development strategy for the woreda.
                   the community to ensure relevanceand             It will ensure that maintenanceand sustainability issues
                   ownership of assets created.                      are directly addressedwithin the woreda budget.
                                                                     It will focus on the participation ofthe community in
                                                                     determining priorities and engagingthem inmaintenance
                                                                     of those assets where appropriate.


Institutional      No clear institutional responsibility for        Food security line offices at every level have oversight of
Arrangements       EGS activities.                                   public works component of the PSNP, eventhough
                                                                     multiple implementing agencies are involved.

                0  Limitedtraining andtechnical assistanceto         Training will be provided as neededat the woreda and
Training           ensure minimumstandards and                       kebele levels to ensurethat above outcomes are realized.
                   appropriatenessof assets created.                 Improvedtechnical assistance inthe planning, design,
                                                                     and implementation of public works will ensure
                                                                     relevance, minimize maintenancerequirements, and
                                                                     maximize sustainability.


5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

1.Phased roll-out of the Program

Alternatives: The PSNP represents a shift from using food to using grants as a mediumof
transfer, Inaddition, adequate andpredictable resourcesfor capital inputs, availability of
technical capacity, andthe involvement of communities intargeting and planning i s critical for
ensuring that public works are productive. Inaddition, inthe process of programdesign, the
Government proposed a new flow of funds which requires substantial additional capacity at
regional and woreda level interms of human resources as well as structures and procedures.
Given these important capacity considerations, development partners includingthe Bank initially


                                                           9

proposedthat only those woredas with a critical minimumlevel o f capacity should participate in
the program. Other woredas with chronically food insecure populations would first work to
strengthentheir capacity and only inlater years would these woredas join the program.

Decision: A phased roll-out o fthe programwas rejected by the Government infavour o f
simultaneous implementationinall program woredas from the start. While the Government
recognized that grants representeda new mediumo f transfer and that this could imply increased
capacity requirements interms o f financial management, it also noted that most woredas had
prior experience implementing public works. Inaddition, many continue to implementpublic
works. Furthermore, there was some benefitto be gained from moving as quickly as possible
away from the annual, emergency-based systemunder which construction o f community
infrastructure often could not be undertaken, to a new productive framework. While some
woredas might not reap the full gains from the new systemuntiltechnical and grant management
capacity has been strengthened, this i s still preferable to maintaining them under the old system
where they did not receive resources for capital and administrative costs as complements to the
grants for households. Simultaneous implementationis still expected to allow a demonstration
effect inhigher capacity woredas for those that still require strengthening. Furthermore, the
Government had already passeda decree indicating that all chronically food insecure households
were now the responsibility o fthe Food Security Coordination Bureau and no longer o f DPPC.
Recognising that capacity may be a concern, however, an initial training program i s being
implemented and i s expected to be completed before the program starts providing transfers in
January 2005. Several donors are providing technical and financial resources to the initial
capacity building and awareness creation activities associated with the PSNP. Inaddition, an
ongoing training program will be developed to assist woredas inaddressing identified capacity
gaps during program implementation. Regardless o f the perceivedbenefits from simultaneous
implementation inall woredas, lack o f capacity must still be recognizedas a critical risk factor in
achieving program objectives.

2. Reliance on the wage rate to allowfor self-targeting of theprogram

Alternatives: Internationalbest practice inthe design o f public works demonstrates that the
wage rate should be set at a level below the prevailing market wage to ensure that only the most
needy, with no alternative means o f employment, participate inand benefit from public works.
Giventhe extent o fneed inrural Ethiopia and the lack o f real employment opportunities, existing
donor andNGO projects have not been able to utilize this method o ftargeting largely because o f
the risk o fthe program beingheavily oversubscribed even at anunacceptably low wage. NGOs
involved inimplementing initial pilot programs using grants as the mediumo f transfer have
advised that at any realistic wage rate, demand for programparticipation would exceed the
available program budget.

Decision: Based on these experiences, the PSNP will not rely solely on this targeting
mechanism, but this approach will be enhanced with community and administrative targeting. An
initial wage rate has been chosen o f 6 Birr a day, which i s below the prevailing market wage for
unskilled labor (estimated at between 7-8 Birr a day), thereby avoiding any potential
distortionary effects on the local employment market. Inorder to then establish who may
participate inthe program at this wage rate, communities will be trained and empowered to



                                                   10

identify the most needyhouseholds. The success o fthis targeting approach will be closely
monitored and evaluated.

3. Use of grants to labor-poor households topromote productive behavior

Alternatives: The initial designo f the Program sought to promote productive behavior inall
program participants. For those with available labor, productive activity is encouraged through
participation inpublic works. For many households with no available labor, productive behavior
would still be promoted through grants conditional on a households' participation inhealth,
nutrition or education interventions. This approach i s particularly appropriate for households
with young children and/or pregnant and lactating mothers. This was seen as an effective way of
leveraging the grant (which would occur anyway) to promote productivity and address the inter-
generational causes o f food insecurity.

Decision: While there was much discussion betweendonor partners and the Government, this
approach was rejected for three reasons: (1) the supply o f health and education interventions
available to these households currently and inthe immediate future i s limited, which means that
inmany areas, this approach maynotbepractical; (2) the monitoring ofparticipationinthese
programs would, at an early stage o f transition o f the safety net, place excessive administrative
burdenson the Program; and (3) the Government was concerned that such activities would create
dependency inbeneficiaries and would lead them to expect payment for using government
services. It was therefore decided that the inclusion o f this type o f activity as part o f the Program
would be considered following the planned study. This would allow the results from ongoing
pilot programs o f such interventions, such as experiences inSNNPR, to first be evaluated.

4. Alternative schedulesfor payment of the grants

Alternatives: One o f the critical innovations o f the PSNP i s the use o f deferredpayment o f
grants to allow participation inpublic works before households face the most severe
consumption shortfalls ("the leanperiod" which commonly occurs between April and
September). Two possibilities were considered. Inthe first case, grants could be given infull at
the time o f work, maximizing the household's ability to manage its own resources. It was felt
that this approach placed a large burdenon households with regardto extended food storage, and
further, that itmight still leadto consumption shortfalls ifhouseholds provedto be less efficient
than thought at estimating their needs later inthe year. Inthe second case, it was felt that it was
important not to fully underminethe Program's credibility and households' confidence inits
intentions inits first year o f operation by deferringthe full amount o f the grant.

Decision: The Programhas opted to pay 50 percent o fthe grant at time o f work, and defer 50
percent o fthe payment untilthe leanperiod, as locally defined. Further, the option o f deciding
on a householdby household basis whether or not to defer payment o f the grant was rejected, as
the administrative requirements of such a system would stretch the limitedcapacity to implement
the Program at woreda level. The efficiency o f using deferredpayments inthe Program, and
potential alternatives are critical issues that will be addressed as part o f the ongoing program
evaluation.




                                                    11

5. Using coupons to implement the deferredpayment system

Alternatives; Inorder to implement the system o f deferredpayments, two possibilities were
considered; (i) the use o f a coupon system, where program participants would get 50 percent o f
their grants, and 50 percent incoupons to beredeemed later inthe "lean" season; and (ii) of ause
simplepayment register, where beneficiaries would receive 50 percent ofthe grant when they
participate inprogram activities and the other 50 percent later inthe lean seasonbased on the
amount o f unpaid wages noted on the register.

A coupon systemhas bothadvantages and disadvantages as a mechanism for implementing
deferredpayments. Onthe one hand, a coupon provides workers with a sense o f security and
greater certainty that future payments will be made. Further, it strengthens the system o f checks
and balances; coupons are heldby the beneficiary and the register o f coupons issued i s held by
the woreda. Coupons could also potentially be used for involving thirdparty suppliers inthe
provision o f a broader range o f goods and services for beneficiaries. Onthe other hand, coupons
are administratively complex to manage and costly to implement. Their use also inevitably
results inthe development o f a secondary market and potentially, fraudulent activity.

Decision: The Government felt that the benefits o f building beneficiary confidence inthe
Program's innovative approach to smoothing seasonal consumption through the use o f coupons
and sufficient existing government capacity to manage a coupon system outweigh the challenges
o fthe coupon system identified above. Therefore, it was decided that a coupon system will be
adopted. Since the system of deferred payment i s new, it was agreed that after the first year o f
implementation, a study to assess the outcomes of using such a system, including the specific use
o f coupons, will be undertaken.

6. Using the safety net to build household assets

Alternative; The focus o f the safety net i s on building assets through public works. While it was
clear that public works should be usedto create community assets, the use o f public works to
create household assets was considered controversial. Specifically, the Government voiced
concern that paying people to work on their own land would create the wrong incentives and
would promote dependency. Furthermore, the Government pointed out the larger FSP
interventions are focused on building households assets, and to avoid duplication, the PSNP's
focus should not be on household assets.

Decision; This approach was therefore rejected with two important caveats; (i)     communities can
work on household land when this i s critical to promoting the creation o f community assets.
Experience from other development projects, such as MERET and EGS, found this to be
particularly important inthe case o f integrated watershed management: without an integrated
approach across private and communal land, all potential benefits could be lost; and (ii)
communities can work on the land o f female-headed households who may not have enough
available labor to undertake critical rehabilitation efforts themselves, but once assisted, can
maintainthe assets created. The creation o f these vital assets can leadto improved productivity
for these households.




                                                  12

7. Incorporating safety netfinancing aspart of thePRSC

AZternatives: Incorporating safety net financing into the PRSC was seen as an alternative to
usingan APL as the financing instrument.This approach would represent reducedtransaction
costs for the Government.

Decision: It was decided that at this stage a two-phase APL would be preferable to integrating
program financing into the PRSC. The PSNP i s new, and there i s a need for intensive technical
engagement with implementing agencies over the first phase o f the project to ensure that the
necessary capacity and delivery mechanisms are inplace. It was felt that this can be best
achieved with the use o f an APL. Further, as lessons learned emerge from the project, these must
be incorporated into program design. An APL, with second phase triggers, will highlight any
issues that needto be addressedbefore movingto a second phase. The financing o f the Program
through direct budget support remains a goal for the Government as well as a number o f donors
and the initial transitional phase will provide an opportunity for basic requirements to be put in
place.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements(ifapplicable)

Context. Ethiopia has had several years o f experience with multi-donor collaboration on single-
sector support inHealth, Education, and Roads Development Programs. Inthe last three years
(the period of CAS implementation), substantial progress has been made, also, inharmonizing
the Bank's programmatic support through the PRSC series and the multi-donor budget support.
Moreover, the Government, the Bank and the donors have made significant progress in
harmonizing due diligence and review processes requiredby Ethiopia's external partners. To
align the standard due diligence processes with Government's planning and budget cycles, the
traditional annual series o f PERs, Country Financial Accountability Assessments (CFAAs), and
Country ProcurementAssessment Reports (CPARs), are being replaced by the Joint Budget and
Aid Review (JBAR) andAnnual Fiduciary Assessments (AFAs).

The PSNP was conceived withinthis country background. The Rural Development and
Vulnerability working group from the programmatidbudget support donors, together with major
donors inhumanitarianassistancejoined the Government to form the Coalition for Food
Security. The PSNP has enjoyed strong commitment and unifiedsupport from these donors
from the time it was identifiedas a pillar o f food security inEthiopia. Intheir recent summit,
the G-8 leaders endorsed Ethiopia's PSNP as a key instrument for reducing hunger and food
insecurity inEthiopia. They singled out the harmonized framework, spearheaded by the
Coalition for Food Security, as the entry point to their support.

Financing. The program will be financed by several donors, with strong representation from the
G-8 aid agencies. Currently, agencies that have stated their commitment include CIDA, DCI,
DFID,EU,USAID and WFP. At present, the EUand IDA are discussing modalities for co-
financing the Program. The common triggers for Phase I1o f the IDA APL may be used by the
EUto provide budget support inthe future.



                                                  13

Collaboration and movement towards a SWAP. The Government and donor commitment to the
common framework to date has involvedjoint missions during concept development and several
stages o f program design,joint appraisal and provision of, and sharing of, common technical
assistance. Both food and grant donors support and finance a PSNP that i s integrated into a
broader woreda development plan inorder to improve the development effectiveness o f the
Program activities, especially those involving the public works sub-projects. The goal o f donor
partners over the medium-term i s to provide budget support for the financing o f the program. To
move towards such a financing instrument,there i s a commitment to adopt common triggers. In
the short-term, even though donor partners do not have a formal Sector Wide Approach (SWAP),
they are adopting a SWAP-like arrangement. This extends to the provision o f technical
assistance, commitment to a common financial and procurement procedures withinthe
framework o f JBAR and AFAs, and a coordinated dialogue with the Government o f Ethiopia.
Finally, a common framework inmonitoring and evaluationi s being developed which will have
common sets o f actions and indicators.

Joint supervision. Within the donor group, there i s a strong commitment to establishing a
mechanism for ensuring effective and coordinated support to program implementation. This
mechanismwill be particularly critical duringthe transition phase where humanitarian risk i s
highandinstitutional capacity is beingdeveloped. Details ofthis arrangement are being
developed. Options include donors jointly recruiting regional representatives who will monitor
and support program implementation inrecognizedhigh-risk areas. These representatives would
report to ajoint Government-Donor team. The continued efforts towards coordination and
harmonizationwill be important to mitigate potential humanitarian risk associated with the start-
up o fthe PSNP.

There i s equally strong commitment to undertake joint missions inMarch and September o f each
year to reviewprogress inimplementation on areas o f training and awareness creation, capacity
building, financial management, rapidresponse mechanisms, etc. Coordination between
Government and donors i s expected to be guided by a Memorandum o f Understanding.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The PSNP i s a component o fthe larger FSP. To mainstream integration o f program activities
into the FSP interventions, no separate program management unit i s envisioned. Instead, the
existing institutional structure will be used, such that food security line agencies at every level o f
Government will be responsible for the oversight and coordination o f the PSNP, with
implementation o f program activities beingundertaken by woredas and kebeles, line
ministry/agencies and other partners.

The Federal level Food Security Coordination Bureau(FSCB) inthe Ministry o fAgriculture and
Rural Development i s responsible for overall strategic guidance including providing technical
support, training, coordination and monitoring and evaluation. The FSCB i s also responsible for
ensuring that the appropriate linkages between the PSNP and other FSP interventions are
realized.

The regionalBureaus o fAgriculture and Rural Development, through the regional food security
coordination offices, are responsible for technical content o f activities such as developing and



                                                  14

consolidating annual implementationplans, mobilizing technical assistance from other line
agencies, and reviewing progress reports and providing feedback to the implementation units.

The Woreda Agricultural andRural Development Offices are responsible for operationaltasks
such as planning, supervision, procurement and financial management. Details o f the roles o f
agencies at each level are provided inAnnex 6.

All programworedas will prepare an Annual Work Planand Budget (AWPB) for the coming
implementation year and submit it to the Regional Food Security Coordination Office (RFSCO)
who will consolidate and submit to the Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau (FSCB) by
the beginning o f December of eachpreceding year, for the durationo fthe Program. The AWPB
should include, at a minimum:a) list o f safety net activities (sub-projects); b) the number o f
beneficiaries for each activity; c) the budgetbreakdown for each activity (benefits to households
and non-transfer costs o f sub-projects); d) the administration cost for program implementation
with source o f financing; e) timeline for safety net activities by quarter; and f) evidence o f
community participation indevelopment o fthe plan.

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomeshesults

Monitoring will provide regular data on the number o f program beneficiaries as well as on the
nature o f the projects undertaken. The shift to distribution o f grants and the impact o f increased
cash resources on market functioning prices will also be monitored. Evaluation will include both
participatory assessments and quailtitative surveys to identify errors o f inclusion and exclusion.
Evaluation will also include engineering assessments o f the quality o f public works performed.
Furtherdetails are inAnnex 3.

4. Sustainability

Three key factors may affect the sustainability of the PSNP: (a) government commitment to the
program; (b) the quality of the program design; and (c) fiscal sustainability.

The PSNP is one o fthe Government's flagship reform programs and represents a significant
transformation of the Government's strategy for addressing food insecurity inEthiopia. Overall,
commitment to the PSNP i s extremely high, interms o f support from boththe highest levels o f
government and from the donor community, as evidenced by the harmonization o f seven donors
around the Government's program.

Although rapid implementation o f the program i s drivenby the need to shift away from reliance
on the annual emergency appeal system as soon as possible, investmentsinthe quality o f the
program are crucial for ensuring sustainability. This has been recognized by the Government,
which i s investing ina training and awareness creation program before program start-up.
Furthermore, on-going training will be incorporated into the program to try and ensure that any
gaps incapacity are identified and remedied.A strong monitoring and evaluation system, which
will be fully established duringthe first phase of program implementation, will serve to identify
any bottlenecks and recommend adjustments as needed.

To ensure that investmentsmade through the Program achieve sustainable results, it will be
critical that the PSNP i s effectively coordinated with other FSP interventions (Details on


                                                  15

linkages are contained inAnnex 9).Appropriate coordination and linkage with other programs i s
envisaged to form a core component of the second phase o f the APL. Looking forward, it i s
expected that the PSNP will be financed through a budget support instrument following the
second phase o f the APL.

Itshould benotedthat a key areaof focus for public works sub-projects will be environmental
rehabilitation and critical watershed management; these investments are seen as critical in
promoting sustainable livelihoods for food insecure households by helping them to increase their
productivity and reduce their exposure to risk.

The PSNP represents a substantial investment. The estimated cost for the first year o f
implementation i s US$170 million to cover approximately five million chronically food insecure
people. This represents slightly less than 50 percent o f all resources beingchanneled towards
addressing food insecurity inEthiopia. The Government's contribution to the overall food
security budget i s about US233 million for 2004105 (2 billion Ethiopian Birr for Ethiopian
FY97).The donor financing for the PSNP is complementaryto these Government resources.
While the size o f the program i s large, the resources being made available are not "additional"
but are proposedto be deducted from the emergency appeal that the DPPC launches each year
and finances from donor pledges for humanitarian relief. As a signo f longterm fiscal
commitment, all donors have initially committed to a multi-annual framework, and have pledged
development resources for up to five years.

Inthe long-run, the Governmentdoesnot perceivethe needfor a safety net as it is inits current
form. Progress inhousehold's ability to achieve food security and manage risks will be assessed
duringphase I1o fthe APL, and the long termplans modified accordingly.

5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects

The PSNP i s a key pillar of the Government's efforts to combat food insecurity. There i s
substantial political commitment and ownership o f the basic principles and structures to make it
work. Start-up activities encompassing training o f federal and regional staff on content o f the
PIM, procurement o f essential goods for public works, and design o f specifications for sub-
projects has already been completed. Preparations are underway to train the woreda and local
level staff before program implementation and to assess the capacity gaps at woreda level. These
and the on-going efforts to develop simplified financial management and procurement guidelines
are all efforts to minimize humanitarian risk. Despite these efforts, capacity constraints continue
to pose significant challenges. Therefore, the Government and donor partners have agreed that in
the event that during implementation a woreda's performance i s not inkeeping with the
objectives o f the program:


    0   A rapid responsesystem will be put into placewhich develops clear mechanismsto
        signal critical implementationproblems and has the capacity to respond to the needs o f
        the woredas.
    0   The federal andregional food security coordination offices and woreda council will put
        inplace an action planto assistthe non-performing woredato beginimplementationo f
        the program activities as soon as possible.




                                                  16

          Inany case, while mitigating measuresare beingtaken, the first prioritywill beto ensure
          that beneficiaries receive grants.

Since September 2004, the Government and donors have agreed on a bi-monthly meeting to
discuss progress towards program readiness and implementation. Discussions are underway to
institutionalizethis as a permanent feature o f the risk management structure o f the program. It i s
proposed that a Government-Donor team will meet once a month to identify any implementation
problems and to propose solutions.

The table below provides details o fpotential risksand mitigating measures.

                      Risks                                    RiskMitigationMeasures                      RiskRating
                                                                                                         wt/Mitigation
                                           To Pro
1.ImplementationCapacity constraints
The PSNP represents a substantial increase in       Inorder to address these concerns, the                Hinthe short-
the roles and responsibilities for lower levels o f Government is undertaking an initial training and     term, M as full
government to deliver assistance to the food        awareness creation program before core program       training program
insecure population. At kebele level, this          implementation starts to ensure that all             and MIS system
includes effectively mobilizing communities to      participating woredas are familiar with program         i s developed
identify beneficiaries and undertake                objectives and procedures. Training needs
participatory community planning. At woreda         assessment will be undertaken each year and
level, this involves providing timely and           training tailored to needs is provided such that as
appropriate technical assistance for undertaking    capacity shortfalls are identified, they can be met.
public works; obtaining and maintaining
adequate procurement and financial                  The MIS system will contain elements that will
management capacity; and logistical capacity to     monitor ongoing program implementation. In
ensure the timely delivery o ftransfers. Overall,   order to address problems as they emerge, the
the scale o f resources flowing to the woreda       Government will develop a rapid response
will, inmany cases, increase woreda budgets         capability at the regional and federal level. This
significantly. Limitations inthe capacity o f       will serve to identify early on any potential
government to effectively undertake all o f these   implementation bottlenecks and ensure that they
functions, at the scale necessary, represents a     are addressed in a timely fashion.
considerable risk to urogram imulementation.
2. Institutionalcoordination
Responsibility for program implementation is        The Government has recognized that                     Minthe short-
with the food security line agencies. At the        coordination between the DPPC and the FSCB i s         term, Nshould
same time, the DPPC will still maintain             critical, and has decided to merge these two          further efforts to
responsibility for food insecure households not     offices at the local level to ensure adequate               identify
intarget woredas, not covered by PSNP in            coordination. A clear definition o f                   responsibilities
program woredas, and for food distribution          responsibilities at woreda, regional, and federal     and assign roles
logistics. Therefore, close coordination will be    level is being developed to ensure that this         to be undertaken
critical for program success, as will a clear       approach will be fully successful
delineation o f responsibilities at the federal,
regional and woreda levels.




                                                           17

3. Impact of Grants
The use of grants rather than food will likely    The importance ofthis riskhas beenrecognized          M,thenNif
have a significant impact on local economies,     inprogramdesign.On-going grain and livestock        further work is
substantially increasing the money supply and     price monitoring will be undertakenat boththe        undertakento
potentially leading to localized inflation. While woreda and regional levels. Excessiveprice             determine
some increase inprices is to be expected, it is   movementscan therefore be identified, with          responsibilities
important that this does not underminethe local   corrective measuresbeing taken early. An            and parameters
economy and leadto erosionofthe value of the      annual review of wages will ensure that these are   for appropriate
grant.                                            adjustedas necessary so that householdscan         corrective action
                                                  meet their food requirementsthrough
                                                  participation inthe PSNP. The review of wages
                                                  can be brought forward at the requestof a
                                                  participating woreda.
4. Leakage
As with any program of this nature,there is a     Significant effort has beenput into the program    M, but not likely
concemthat program benefitswill be captured       to designguidelinesthat can be applied             to have a
by individuals who are not from food insecure     transparently by local community committees.       significant impact
households.While this concem is mitigated         These committees will receivetraining inthe        an the program.
somewhat by the pervasivenature of food           application ofthese criteria. Further, beneficiary
insecurity inany given locality inwhich the       names will be postedinapublic place to
PSNP will be operating, it neverthelessstill      maximize transparencyand a grievance and
exists.                                           appeals process will be established.All of these
                                                  measuresshould significantly mitigate the risk of
                                                  leakagebeing a significant problem
5. Donor commitment
While donor commitment is strong and all          Substantialupfront investments indonor                     M
donors are committed to a multi-year resource     harmonization and collaboration havebeen
framework, there exists the possibility that, (i) undertaken,underthe leadership ofthe
inthe short-run, delays insecuringfunding         Government, and will continue throughout the
approval and inachieving donor harmonization      life of the Government's Program.
will leadto delays indisbursementsof funds
andtherefore inimplementing public works and      High-levelcommitments have already been made
direct support, thereby substantially             to the PSNP as part ofthe G-8 summit's efforts
undermining the protective function ofthe         to endingthe cycle of famine inthe Hom of
Program; (ii) the long-run, donor
               in                                 Africa.
commitment to the program will wane and
resources will not be available to continueto     Further, if delays indonor financing emerge, the
fundthe Program, and(iii)theemergencycase         Governmenthas indicated its willingness to
load will be under-funded, which compelsthe       finance the Program, on an interimbasis, through
Governmentor communities to re-distribute the     funds allocatedto its FSP, thus avoiding delays
programresources and underminethe asset-          in implementation or an undermining ofthe
protection role ofthe PSNP. This is a critical    Program.
risk, especially ifthey happenbefore substantial
achievements infood security havebeen
achieved.




                                                          18

I6. Government Commitment
 While governmentcommitment is currently          Other food security interventionsare currently        N
 high, longterm graduationandreductionin          receivingsubstantialgovernment financing (Birr
 chronic food insecurity is dependent upon        2 billion or US$233 million for FY 2004105).
 coordinatingthe PSNPwith other government        The governmenthas publiclycommitted,
 interventionsenvisagedunderthe broaderFSP.       moreover,to sustainbudgetaryfinancing for
 It is criticalthat this commitment is maintained these activities over the medium-term.
 over the medium-termto maximizethe               Accordingly, MoFEDplacesthe FSP as a top
 probabilityofthe programmeetingits broader       priority for receivingbudgetaryfinancing inits
 development objective.                           Medium-TermExpenditureandFiscal
                                                  Framework.

 Overall RiskRating                                                                                     M

 6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants
 a) Conditionsfor Effectiveness: Ina form satisfactory to the Association, the Government o f
 Ethiopia must:

            adopt the Program Implementation Manual (PIM);
            (i) andadoptfinancialmanagementguidelinesandanactionplanforbuilding
                develop
            financial management capacity at the Federal, regional, and woreda levels on the basis o f
            the follow-up financial management capacity assessment, and (ii)           prepare and submit the
            terms o f reference for appointment o f an accounting firm to review financial statements
            at the woreda level;
       e    submit: (i)report detailing completion of an awarenesscreationandtraining program at
                          a
            the woreda andkebele levels, and (ii) actionplanfor woreda capacity buildingbased
                                                      an
            on the woreda capacity assessment;
       e    open the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit; and
       e    appoint key staff at the Federal, regional and woreda levels, including, at a minimum: (i)
            at the Federal level: the head o f department, safety net and other food security programs,
            two technical staff on safety net, and, at least one finance head and an accountant; (ii)     at
            the regionallevel: the head ofthe regional food security office, depending on the
            structure o f the region at least one accountant either inBOARDor at the Regional food
            security office with the primary responsibility for the Program, and, at least two technical
            staff inregional food security office; (iii)   at the woreda level: the head o f Woreda Rural
            Development Office ineach program woreda, at least one food security desk officer, one
            technical staff inthe woreda food security desk, or Woreda Rural Development Office,
            and at least one finance officer with the primary responsibility for food security, and at
            least two cashiers inthe woreda finance office; and (iv) at least one development agent in
            each participatingkebele, all with satisfactory qualifications and experience.

 The Government has developed atime-bound actionplan for the completion o fthe above
 conditions o f effectiveness. It has made substantial progress inmeeting these conditions: a
 financial management capacity assessment i s underway and the financial management guidelines
 are being developed; training at the woreda and kebele levels i s underway; the woreda capacity
 assessment has beencompleted and an action plani s beingdeveloped; many o f the key staff
 already inplace; and the P I M i s inthe process o f beingfinalized.




                                                          19

b) FinancialCovenants :


     0   The FSCB will submit the audited Program accounts to IDA nine months after the end o f
         each fiscal year. The fiscal year ends on 7 July o f each year. The audited financial
         statement will include all sources o f funds for the Program, including other donors and
         the government.


     0   The FSCB will submit quarterly FinancialManagement Reports (FMR)to IDA forty-five
         days after the end o f each calendar quarter.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

First and foremost, the PSNP will contribute to the reduction o f extreme hunger and
malnutrition. Second, and related to the first, the PSNP will help to reduce poverty traps infour
ways: a) by providing grants to these chronically food insecure households, consumption
shortfalls are met, malnutrition i s averted and the long term poverty-inducing consequences o f
malnutrition are mitigated; b) the consumption-smoothingeffect o f the grants means that
households need not deplete their productive assets to meet short-term needs; c) through public
works, the Program will create community assets which will complement the productivity o f
household assets; and d) the Program protects and builds the assets o f specific target groups
withinthe chronically food insecure, who are exceptionally vulnerable. Although the mainfocus
of the public works i s to build community assets, there i s an explicit provision for the community
to assist inenhancing the productivity o f lands owned by labor poor female-headed households
through the public works. Third, the PSNP will support the rehabilitation o f the environment,
and restoration o f soil fertility through comprehensive watershed management plans that
encompass terracing, bunding, gully control, area closures and multi-layered agro-forestry. It i s
expected that this, inturn, will lead to improved agricultural productivity. Fourth, the PSNP i s
expected to reduce isolation and improve access to public services through building rural feeder
roads, repair o f schools and health clinics, and making safe drinking water available. Finally, the
PSNP will contribute to market development. The introduction of grants instead o f food will
serve to increase purchasingpower and demand for food locally, which will serve to stimulate
different segments o fthe food marketing chain. Inthe long run, the various activities have
complementary effects.

The resource envelope projected for the PSNP is about US$170 million per year. This is
equivalent to approximately 2.5 percent o f the GDP o f Ethiopia. This i s a sizable investment, and
i s similar to the levels o f investmentinthe basic education sector inEthiopia. It should be
recognizedthat much o f the program financing does not represent "new" funds. Ethiopia already
receives a very large inflow o f resources for humanitarian purposes on an annual, emergency
basis. The PSNP will transform the use o f these resources from puretransfers, which they were
inthe past, to productive resources.




                                                   20

2. Technical
The Programreceived strong technical input from a multi-donor technical working group from
inception through the design. The Bank's technical input was also informed by several
economic and sectoral work activities, particularly the PER 2003/2004 and the Risk and
Vulnerability Assessment. Technical handbooks on targeting and public works activities have
beenprepared. Key to the Program's success will be the provision o f appropriate technical inputs
inthe selection, designandimplementation ofpublic works. The availability o fDevelopment
Agents (DAs) at kebele level inall implementingworedas is seen as critical inensuring that this
technical assistance i s available. The Government has recently completed an extendedtraining
program for a new cohort o f DAs and a retraining o f existing DAsto ensure that these technical
staff are trained inthe latest agricultural and environmental management techniques.

3. Fiduciary
Procurement: The Government i s making progress inbuildingcapacity in all woredas through
the decentralizationprocess. However, there is a recognitionthat not all woredas have adequate
capacity. There i s a capacity assessmentunderway as part o fthe start-up activities which will
identify the actual gaps inprocurement capacity.

Financial management: Financing for the PSNP takes the form o f specific federal government
grants to be implemented by the FSCB at the Ministryo f Agriculture and Rural Development
(MoARD) and Regional Food Security Coordination Offices (RFSCOs) at the regional level, and
food security desks at the woreda level. MoFED and WoFED are also involved inmanaging the
resources o f the Program. The government system o f accounting will be used for flow o f funds,
recording and reporting the financial transactions o f the Program. The major risks for the
implementation o f the Programare the highnumber o f agencies involved inthe implementation
and the low capacity at all levels. Inorder to mitigate these risks, all the implementing agencies
will assign additional staff to strengthentheir existing capacity and extensive training will be
provided by MoARD for all involved inthe implementationo f the Program.

The preparation and issuance of short and concise guidelineson recording andreporting o fthe
financial transactions o fthe Programby MoFED i s a crucial step inaccelerating the
implementation o f the Program. The guidelines will be used by the staff o f the implementing
agencies after MoARD conducts the necessary training prior to the start o f the Program. The
FSCB will take the responsibility inthe overall coordination o f the Program's implementation.
After receivingthe requiredfinancial reports from the regions, the FSCB will prepare and submit
regular financial monitoring reports to IDA.

MoFED will be responsible for the management o f the Special Account and the Project Birr
account. Each o f the implementing agencies will open separate bank account for the program.
Money will flow from MoFEDto FSCB, and from FSCB to RFSCOdBoARD, which inturn
transfer money to WoFEDs. The WoFEDs will effect all payments at the woreda level.

The FederalAuditor General will assign external auditors, acceptable to the Association, to
conduct the audit o f the project financial transactions.




                                                  21

The overall conclusion from the financial management assessment i s that the existing
government systemcould be used for the implementation o f the Program provided additional
staff are assigned at all levels and the requiredtraining i s provided by M o A R D on recording and
reporting o f the financial transactions o fthe Program to all staff o f the Implementing agencies.

4. Social
The approximately five million chronically food insecure individuals constitute some o f the
poorest and most vulnerable memberso f the population. The targeting methods make an explicit
effort to include the most needy, without creating or encouraging dependency. There i s also
explicit recognition o fthe constraints that face women ingeneral and female-headed households
inparticular. Gender considerations will beaddressedby: a) providing flexible work hours for
women inthe public works sub-projects; b) explicitly permittingcommunities to improve the
productivity o f female-headed households who have no labor; c) including crkhes and creche
management as eligible public works sub-projects; and d) providing grants to food insecure
women with no labor or other means o f support, who are pregnantor lactating mothers. Kebeles
will be encouraged to utilize fundingalready programmed at the local level for HIV/AIDS
information, education and communication campaigns to build awareness on these issues at
public works sites. A modified PIM, taking into account the characteristics o f pastoralist
communities will be utilized to ensure that their specific needs are adequately addressed through
the PSNP.

5. Environment
The PSNP includes a community-driven public works sub-projects aimed at developing
communal infrastructure and assets inareas o f chronic food insecurity. The Program will provide
food or grants for labor provided by community members inthe implementation o f the sub-
projects.

The selectiono fthe public works sub-projects will be drivenby the local planning process. They
may include, for example, hillside terracing, land reclamation, improvement o f roads or bridges,
improved access to water, or repair o f health facilities. Inthe case o f pastoralist areas, it i s to be
expected that projects may include development o f water points, rehabilitating pasture lands,
buildingaccess roads, buildmarket sites, agroforestry, or initiatives relatedto livestock.

The public works subprojects proposed under the PSNP include substantial micro-watershed
management activities. As such the Program can be viewed as contributing to the overall Nile
Basin Initiative (NBI) which i s coordinated by the Ministry o f Water Resources. Support for
more sustainable micro-watershedmanagement activities under the Program will be combined
with best practices and based on basin-wide technical analyses resulting from the NBI, thus
maximizing the environmental benefits o f bothprograms.

Giventhe nature and large number o fthese public works, it is important that their designand
implementation follow good practice inorder to manage any potentially adverse impacts. While
it is acknowledgedthat many ofthe public works will themselves be intendedto rehabilitate the
natural resource base, it i s equally important that such projects be well designed and executed to
ensure that undesirable impacts are avoided or mitigated.



                                                  22

Ethiopia's Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) proclamation, the World Bank's safeguard
policies and international standards subscribed to by other development partners are applicable to
the PSNP. Inkeeping with Ethiopia's EIA proclamation, the term `environment' inthis context
covers biophysical, social and cultural heritage impacts.

Inthe case ofthe PSNP, where individual projects are numerous, community-based, andnot
known inadvance, it i s not realistic to execute EIAs. The Government has produced a global
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the Program that sets out in
simple terms:
        1    Criteria for public works sub-project selection;
        1    A checklist for preliminary project assessment, to avoid a location or project design
        .    which might give rise to undesirable impacts; and
            A shortlist o fmitigating measuresto betaken duringproject implementation.

The project selection procedures excludes projects within or adjoining territories under
international dispute, projects requiring relocation o f residents, and dams inexcess o f 15 meters
inheight.

The public works subprojects will buildcommunity infrastructure on communal land or at the
request o f the beneficiary. The procedures will ensure that participation inthe projects i s entirely
voluntary; each community member will have the option to opt out o f a project, should he or she
desire to make no change intheir existing livelihood situation. Inthe event that a community
member desires to voluntarily relinquishassets, or accessto assets, inthe course ofproject
implementation, he or she may do so, and will be entitledto compensation from the project.
Wherever possible, such compensation will take the form o fthe asset loss beingtaken into
account inthe net benefits accruing to the member.The ESMF commits the PSNP to providing
guidelines for such compensation arrangements, and for the production o f medical waste
management plans and integrated pest management plans where required.

Preliminary project assessment will be conducted at woreda level, and compliance with the
recommended mitigating measures will be monitored by the concerned DA. Only inexceptional
cases would it be necessary for a project to be reviewedat a higher level, inwhich case under
Ethiopia's Environmental Management proclamation, the regional Environmental Bureau, or
equivalent office, would be the determining authority. It i s not intendedthat the PSNP will
include any public works activities necessitating a separate EIA under the Environmental Impact
Assessment proclamation. For the sake o f simplicity, the standard mitigating measures for each
type o f sub-project have beenincorporated inthe technical standards manual o f the Program.
The environmental management process and guidelines developedfor the Programhave been
reviewedby the Environmental ProtectionAuthority o f Ethiopia.

On the basis o f the above, the program i s rated"B" for environmental classification.

6. Safeguard policies
N o social policies are triggered as a result o f this project and thus this project i s rated as S3 for
safeguard classification.




                                                    23

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                            Yes                     N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                             [ X I                    [ I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [ I                   [ X I
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                              [ I                   [ X I
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP 4.11)                                 [ I                   [ X I
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                  [ I                   [ X I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                  [ I                   [ X I
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   [I                    [ X I
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            [ I                   [ X I
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              [ I                   [ X I
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                   [ X I                    [ I

RiparianIssues:
A component ofthe PSNP is publicworks sub-projects, inwhichwatershedmanagement
activities will feature prominently. Most o f the latter are soil and water conservation activities.
However, the list also includes activities such as small-scale irrigation (e.g. springdevelopment),
micro water channels, and water harvesting (communal micro-ponds). However, given that these
activities will be identifiedthrough a participatory community planningprocess, specific sub-
projects are yet to be identified. Further,they do not involve any capital-intensive works but
rather labor intensive small-scale works using simple technology.

Yet because the activities, such as small-scale irrigation, are not excluded,riparian issues
potentially arise. The Bank team has (a) identified which international waterways the project
activities may affect; (b) estimated the maximumquantities of water use abstraction, and (c)
notified the countries involved. Inthe Bank's assessment, the amounts o f water likely to be
extracted under the safety net are such that no appreciableharmto riparians i s expected.

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness
The proposedproject does not require any exceptions from the Bank policies.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice theJinal determination ofthe parties' claims on the
disputed areas



                                                            24

                        Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
                          Ethiopia: Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Project


Country Background: The last decade and a half have been a period o f broad recovery for
Ethiopia characterized by several important internal social developments; (a) the end o f a long
and bloody civil war, and uneasy peace with Eritrea following two years (1998-2000) o f the
border war; (b) broad economic reforms which included shifting the economy from central
planning to a market system, keeping inflation under control, and improving the management o f
public expenditures; and (c) on-going political decentralization, which has introduced a process
of empowerment o f sub-national governments and diluted one o f the sources o f past conflicts-
concentration o f power at the centre. One o f the first signs o f this recovery has been the overall
output response. Between 1991-2004, GDP per capita has risen from its lowest level to one o f
the highest inthe past 40 years (see Figure 2).

     FIGURE REALGROSS
              2:                   DOMESTIC       PRODUCT PER CAPITA, ETHIOPIA,1960 TO 2000




             3 0 0


             2 7 5


             2 5 0


             2 2 5


             2 0 0


              1 7 5


              1 5 0
                 1 9 6 0   1 9 6 5  1 9 7 0   1 9 7 5  1 9 8 0   1 9 8 5  1 9 9 0   1 9 9 5  2 0 0 0




Economic recovery was severely impacted inthe first two years o f this decade by a combination
of the worst drought intwenty years and large declines inthe terms o f trade for key
commodities, particularly coffee. Despite the highly variable growth experience, and numerous
exogenous shocks, the Ethiopian Government continued to maintain stable macroeconomic
policies. As a result, Ethiopia's GDP growth rebounded sharply in2003/044 by 11.6 percent,
primarily due to the substantial recovery o f the agriculture sector, which grew by 18.9 percent.
Evidence also points towards stronger private sector growth, with large increases incredit
extended to the private sector and an increase inprivate investmentas a share o f GDP. Other
positive development have followed: (a) drought-induced increases infood prices -the
Consumer Price Index rose by about 15 percent in2002/03 - i s expected to be reversed; (b)
exports grew strongly inthe most recent year despite further deterioration inEthiopia's terms o f
trade, drivenby a large increase inexports o f non-factor services and a rebound incoffee
earnings.


4The Ethiopianfiscal year runs from July 8 to July 7


                                                      25

Furthermore, since the adoption o f SDPRP pro-poor spending has continuedto increase (CAS
Progress Report, 2004). Most notable among the changes insectoral allocations i s the large
increase inrural spendinginthe last two years, reflecting the Government's rollout o f the Food
Security Program. Partly due to increased pro-poor spending and partly to economic growth,
poverty appears to have declined, faster inthe early 1990s period relative to the latter half.
National household survey data indicatethat the national poverty headcount decreased from 46
to 44 percent from 1995/96 to 1999/00, but urbanpoverty actually increased from 33 to 37
percent. Much faster progress i s reported innon-consumption measures o f welfare. According
to the forthcoming Poverty Assessment (2004), several key indicators o f household welfare and
service delivery have risen rapidly inthe past decade, albeit from a very low base. Extreme
stunting(height for age more thanthree standard deviations from the mean), declined from 44
percent to 31percent inthe 1995 to 2000 period. The gross primary enrollment rate nearly
doubled from 33 percent in 1990 to 62 percent in2000. Under-five mortality declined from 190
to 174 per 1,000 between 1990 and 2000, a rate o f decline that i s nonetheless far below that
requiredto reachthe MDG. Under-fivemortality rates vary widely, ranging from 148.6 per
1000 inurban areas to 192.5 per 1000 inrural areas. The average distance to an improved water
source dropped sharply from 2.4 kmin 1995 to 0.8 kmin 1999, while the distance to transport
services declined only marginally from 17.2 kmto 16.2 kmover the same period.

Sector Issues: While growth i s necessary, it i s not sufficient to reduce chronic food insecurity.
Even ifhigh levels o f rural growth are achieved inthe coming decade, Ethiopia will still have a
sizable number o f food insecure people inneed o f public assistance. Assuming a population
growth o f 3 percent, for example, Ethiopia needs to grow annually by 4-5 percent to keep the
absolute number o fthe poor and inequality at the levels o f today. Furthermore, even ifEthiopia's
growth exceeds 5 percent per year inthe future, several recent studies conclude that poverty and
householdvulnerability will continue to be o f serious concern. As for estimates o f vulnerability
inpresent-day Ethiopia, almost 50 percent ofthe population are considered poor, anadditional
27 percent move in and out o f poverty, and almost 14 percent who are not poor now have a high
probability o f falling into poverty inthe future with a single large shock (Risk and Vulnerability
Assessment, World Bank 2004).

Rapidpopulation growth and dependence on subsistence rain fed agriculture contribute to
poverty and vulnerability. Population density i s twice the average for Sub-Saharan Africa, and is
greatest inthe highlands-where      as a result, soil fertility i s rapidly declining, and average plot
sizes have decreased inmany cases below the minimumamount required for subsistence.
Dependence on subsistence rain fed agriculture leaves the population o f Ethiopia highly
vulnerable to weather-mostly      low or late rainfall-and     terms oftrade shocks, such as declining
coffee prices. Measures o f rainfall variability across time show that, inany given year, actual
rainfall can be above or below the long-term average (calculated over the 33 years between
1967-2000) by up to 35 percent. Measures o f rainfall inequality across space are also high, as
indicated by the coefficient o f variation. These ranged from a low o f 18 percent to a higho f 81
percent usingannual rainfall totals. These measures also suggest that even when the overall
average rainfall may appear "normal", many areas may experience significantly higher or lower
than expected rainfall.




                                                   26

The highly variable and unequal distribution o f rainfall implies that Ethiopia experiences
pervasive drought risk.Between1978 and 1994 alone, there were 15 droughts (and famines),
with large numbers ofhouseholds facing food andnon-food consumption shortfalls each year.
There i s broad consensus that on average there appear to be five to six million Ethiopians ina
"normal" rainfall year who are inneed o f some form o f public assistance to helpmeet their basic
caloric needs, although the deprivation i s undeniably exacerbated inyears when rainfall deviates
significantly below the trend. Furthermore, even small and localized shortage inrainfall can lead
to widespread hunger because o f poor infrastructure, low market integration, and very high
swingsinstaple food prices. And as a way to respond to hunger, households sometimes
undertake actions that endanger their own survival inthe long run-by        selling oxen, delaying
treatment o f a health problem, withdrawing children from school, and so on.

The FY04 Risk and Vulnerability Assessment argues that more effective management o f risk
will require enhanced rural growth through improvingthe functioning o f land, fertilizer and grain
markets, rural credit and saving, diversification o f income sources, increasingpublic investments
inroads, fighting disease, expanding the coverage ofthe food security programs, protecting
household assets, and increasing the productive element o f safety net transfers.

Ethiopia's current safety net i s large. Thus far, Ethiopia has largely relied on internationally
financed humanitarian assistanceto provide a safety net for its most vulnerable people. The size
o f this humanitarianrelief-oriented safety net i s very large. The PER 2003/2004 estimates that
the total spendingontransfers to the poor inEthiopia has amounted to about US$265 millionper
annumonaverage between 1997and2002. This amount fluctuates widely, from a low o f about
US$120 million in `good' years, to a higho f about US$500 million in `bad' (severe drought)
years. The figure o f US$265 million represents about 13 percent o f total public spendingor
about US$4 per capita. This i s equivalent to over US$40 per beneficiary, for the approximately
five to six millionpeople who are estimated to be chronically food insecure. The PER further
estimates that, on average, 93 percent o f these resources are financed from external aid sources,
the majority of which is inthe form o ffood aid via emergency appeals.

Butthe PSNP needs to be-and        has the potential to be-more   productive than at present. The
safety net can be designedto bothaddress immediate human needs while simultaneously
supporting the rural transformation process within roughly the same resource envelope as the
present humanitarianeffort:

(i> asanincentivetosmall-holderfarmers totakeonhigher-riskhigherproductivity
    Serving
production techniques by providing a cushion against downside climatic risk: e.g. the guaranteed
availability o fpublic workfare at low wages can perform an insurance function by allowing poor
farmers to adopt high-risk,highreturn activities because the workfare program i s available inthe
eventthat the rains fail.

(ii) Preventing householdsfiom engaging in self-injurious coping strategies whichpermanently
diminish their ability to engage inproductive, high-return economic activity: e.g. to the extent
that the food payment or grant to the household i s delivered during or before the period o f
greatest need ,distress sales o f livestock are avoided, children are not pulled out o f school, etc.
Inother words, households neednot part withtheir assets.



                                                   27

 (iii) Buildingpublic inpastructure and maintaining community assets with high economic rates
of return: e.g. approximately two-thirds o f the rural infrastructure inthe Indian state o f
Maharashtra was created under the Maharashtra Employment Guarantee Scheme (MEGS) public
works safety net over the course o f 25 years from 1973. The benefits from the safety net would
be not only the value of the grants to the household, but also the productivity increases as a result
o f the creation o f public infrastructure such as roads, ponds, watershed management etc.
Moreover, research has shown that sustained implementation o f MEGS has contributed to nearly
halving o fthe poverty gap ratio inthis extremely poor ecologically fragile region o f India.

(iv) Promoting market development by increasing householdpurchasing power: e.g. this i s more
likely to be the case ifparticipants inpublic works or direct support are paidthrough grants
rather than infood. Thus, if designed properly, the PSNP can increase effective demand and
improve market activity and emergence. A weak or ineffective safety net can lock people into
persistent poverty at the household level by failing to prevent the loss o f productive assets, and
can leadto slow growth at the macro-economic level as a consequence of permanent losses in
nutrition, productivity, and assets. As such, public expenditures (budgetary and aid) on
productive, well-designed PSNP should be regarded as growth-inducing investment, not relief.




                                                    28

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                      ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNet Project

The PRSC Series. The PRSC series providesthe focal point for the Bank's dialogue with
Government on broad economic reform issues. PRSC I(US$123 million Grant) was delivered in
FY04and focused on strengtheningpro-poor growth (urban and rural) through private sector
development, enhancing human development outcomes and reducing vulnerability. The PRSC I1
(US$130 million Grant, estimated) will be delivered inFY05, and builds on consolidating
reforms inprivate sector, human development and rural growth while advancing dialogue on
reforms in governance, financial sector and telecommunications.

EmergencyDrought andRecovery Project(US$60 million Grant). Around five millionpeople
inEthiopia are chronically food insecure, andthe recent drought put an estimated 10million
additional people at risk o f starvation. The transitory victims o f the drought risked falling
permanently into food insecure status as many sold their productive assets inorder to survive.
To respond, the Bank delivered an Emergency Drought Recovery project inFY03 to enable
Government to help affected families survive the emergency, retain productive assets, develop
sustainable livelihoods, and contribute to the stabilization o f the macro-economy.

The FoodSecurityProject(US$85 million Credit) i s a community-driven development project
to help vulnerable, food insecure communities increase their incomes and build assets. In
contrast to the Productive PSNP, the Food Security Project focuses on creating household assets.
The Food Security Project operates inaround 60 food insecure woredas inAmhara, Oromiya,
Tigray and SNNPR. The activities to be undertaken as part o f the project are income generating
activities employing a revolving fund, and other community investments such as feeder roads,
pond and spring development, small-scale irrigation, and market infrastructure upgrading. One o f
the objectives o fthe Food Security Project is to protect andpromote child growth and
development, by enhancing household and community information and decision making on
infant and child feeding and other caring practices.

The PastoralCommunityDevelopmentProject(US$30 million Grant), delivered inFY03,
aims to empower pastoral communities to better manage local development, improve
infrastructure, increase and diversify incomes, increase access to public services, and reduce the
risk from drought and other natural disasters.

The PublicSector CapacityBuildingProject(PSCAP, US$lOO million Credit) was approved
inMay 2004. PSCAP supports Government's efforts to improve state-society relations inthree
ways-improving      the scale, efficiency, and responsiveness o f public service delivery at the
federal, regional, and local level; empowering citizens to participate more effectively inshaping
their own development; andpromoting good governance and accountability. PSCAP
complements the largely equity-drivengeneral purpose "block' grants and food security transfers
to regions with a performance-orientedcapacity buildingtransfer to help sub-national authorities
achieve their institutional transformation goals.

The Nile BasinInitiative i s an attempt by the ten nations, including Ethiopia, that share the Nile
to exploit the river as a catalyst for growth, cooperation and integration, insteado f it remaining a



                                                  29

barrier to development andpeace inthe sub-region. Recent progress includes the utilization o f
the shared waterways along two tracks. The first track comprises a small but strategic set o f
sectoral projects which can be under implementation within two years, resulting intangible
regional benefits and demonstrating the benefits o f cooperation. This would include four
components: energy interconnections with Sudan and Djibouti; joint flood control management
with Sudan; rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, with a focus on private agriculture
environmental rehabilitation; and watershed management (to be undertaken under the PSNP).

A second paralleltrack would be large scale, multi-country, multi-purpose investmentsincluding
power and irrigation inEthiopia. With Ethiopia's involvement, IDA i s exploring the possibility
o f providing financing for the Sudan/Djibouti/Ethiopia electrical grid interconnection.
The public works subprojects proposed under the PSNP include substantial watershed
management activities. The Watershed Project under IDEN(WS-IDEN) covers almost one-third
o f the woredas inEthiopia, and there i s substantial overlap with woredas eligible for the PSNP.

The activities under the two projects will be harmonized.. This will be done inat least three
ways. First, inthose Nile Basinworedas where the PSNP i s operational, an additional watershed
project may not be needed. Second, the micro-watershedmanagement activities under the PSNP
will be integratedinto the larger watershed management plans prepared by the Ministry o f Water
Resources so that more effective watershed management can occur. Third, support for more
sustainable micro-watershedmanagement activities under the PSNP will be combined with best
practices and from basin-wide technical analyses resultingfrom the NBIledby the Ministry o f
Water Resources, thus maximizing the environmental benefits o f bothprograms.




                                                 30

                                Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring

                             ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNetProject

                PDO                          OutcomeIndicators                      1Use of OutcomeInformation

(2004-2009).

    Improved food security for at        Decrease inthe trend in chronic food             Y5: Indicateto what degree the
    least 5 million chronically food     insecurity (% change inaverage                  PSNP, as part o f the broader
    insecure people and stabilization    number inneed o f safety net                    FSP, i s leading to reduced food
    o f long term trend o f increasing   assistance, 3-year moving average).              insecurity for program
    numbers o f food insecure                                                            beneficiaries, and is leading to a
    people.                                                                              halt inthe trend o f increasing
                                                                                          numbers o f food insecure
                                                                                         people.

PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJEC [VESFORFIRST PHASE, A P L (2005-app                        ximately MID-2006).

    Transition from humanitarian         At least 75% o fprogramparticipants             Y1-Y2: Indicates the degree to
    assistance to PSNP leads to           report no distress sales o f assets to         which the system has been
    improved effectiveness and            meet food needs (via sample survey).           effectively implemented;
    productivity o f transfers for       At least 75% households inprogram               specifically, that the reformed
    food insecure households.             areas reporting satisfaction                   systemcan ensure timely
                                          withibenefit from infrastructure               delivery o f transfers to
                                          developed.                                     beneficiaries while also creating
                                                                                         productive infrastructure and
                                                                                         assets for communities.

     IntermediateResults                 ResultsIndicatorsfor Each                     Use of ResultsMonitoring
     One per Component                             ComDonent

Component One:                         Component One:                                ComponentOne:
    The public works and direct          At least 95% o feligible beneficiaries      Yl-Y2: Indicates the extent to which
    support components ensure            are confirmed as chronically food           the PSNP can effectively target
    transfers reach the identified       insecure.                                   chronically food insecure
    beneficiaries and significant        At least 50% o f eligible beneficiaries     households, and then provide
    productive assets are being          participating in public works or in         transfers to those identified
    created.                             direct support have received grants         beneficiaries either through direct
                                         rather than food.                           support or public works. This
                                         At least 95% o f disbursements to           information will be used to make
                                         eligible beneficiaries for public works     any required adjustments inthe
                                         sub-projects have been made                 targeting procedures.
                                         according to identifiedneeds.
                                         At least 95% o f disbursements to           T o assess whether key elements for
                                         eligible beneficiaries for direct           effective public works are present
                                         support have been made according to         (demand-driven, technically sound,
                                         identified needs.                           and sustainable activities).
                                         At least 75% o f capital and                Y1: To determine ifprocedures for
                                         administrative budget used by               program implementation have been
                                         woredas.                                    institutionalized and recommend
                                         At least 75% o f kebeles have               adjustments ifneeded.

                                         developed and approved safety net
                                         plans, taking into-account community



                                                        31

                                 preferences.
                               0 At least 60% ofpublic works sub-
                                 projectsare assessedas technically
                                 sound.


ComponentTwo:                 ComponentTwo :                         Component Two:
  Strengthenedinstitutional      At least 50% ofworedas usinggrants  To assess whether program
  structuresto maximize          are presentingaccurate andcomplete  proceduresare effectively
  productiveaspect ofprogram     financial reports.                  understoodandbeingfollowed, and
  andto effectivelymonitor     0 At least 60% of all participating   the extent to whichmonitoring
  progress.                      woredas are reportingfully on       information is collectedina timely
                                 physicalprogress.                   andusefulmanner to enhance

                               0 A management informationsystem      managementoversight.
                                 that provides sufficient andtimely
                                 informationhas beenestablishedand   YI-Y2: Indicatorswill serve to
                                 i s operational.                    highlightwere further trainingand
                                                                     capacity buildinginprogram
                                                                     proceduresis needed.




                                                32

     m
    z      zm  xm       a   m
                             53.
     LL    c4    14        L




                                    M
                                    M




N
2          s      3
           vi     vi
           r-     t-




    e
    0
    0
    N

a     Q     Q
53    53    $ 5 3a       53a    53a  a 53  a

L     LL   L      L L    LL     L    L       53c4



                x
                        a
                        x
      6         a,
                        L
                        >
      5                 5
      m        -$
               m      -m
      e,        a,      a
      a        9a       a
                        9
      m        m        m




                                                     d
                                                     M




s     sm    sm    sm     s      s      s
m
m                        0      0      0
      o\    P     P      W      m      W


      s     2     g      g
      0
      m     m     W      d

                                Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                       ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNet Project

The Government of Ethiopia's PSNP will be co-financed bythe World Bank and other donors.
The IDA Phase Io f the APL will support the program for an initial period o f 24 months.

PROGRAMCOVERAGEAND BENEFICIARIES

Since Ethiopia's PSNP i s part of its broader FSP, it i s targetedat those woredas identified as
being chronically food insecure. The beneficiaries o fthe Program are the food insecure
population living inthese chronically food insecure woredas. This figure is currently estimated
to be approximately five million people. The beneficiaries o f the program are resource-poor and
vulnerable to shocks, and often fail to produce enough food even at times o f normal rains inthe
country. The PSNP i s beingimplemented inrural areas only. While careful coordination with
other food security interventions i s a goal o f the program, woredas receiving settlers as part o f
the resettlement component o f the Government's FSP will not be eligible to participate inthe
program. The definition o f chronically food insecure woredas and households i s as follows:

(a) Chronicallyfood insecure woredas:
    For the purposes o f the PSNP, a woreda i s considered chronically food insecure ifit (1) i s in
    one o f 8 regions (Tigray, Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP, Afar, Somali, rural Harari and Dire
    Dawa), and (2) has been a recipient o f food aid ineach o f the last three years.
    According to the Disaster Preventionand Preparedness Commission's (DPPC) list o f
    woredas, 2625woredas currently satisfy the two conditions stated above. The list o f woredas
    i s provided inthe PIM.

(b) Chronicallyfood insecure households:
    For the purposes o f the PSNP, a household i s considered chronically food insecure ifit, (i)s   i
    located inone o fthe program woredas (as defined above); (ii) been assessedby a mix o f
                                                                           has
    administrative guidelines and community knowledge to have faced continuous food
    shortages (usually three months o f food gap or more) inthe last three years and received food
    assistance;
    This also includes households that suddenlybecome more vulnerable as a result o f a severe
    loss o f assets and are unable to support themselves (last one to two years);
    Any householdwithout family support and other means of social protection and support;

Inthe first year o fthe PSNP, the community establishes a baseline list o fchronically food
insecure households. This list will then be updated each year.

COMPONENTSOFAPL PHASE1

The APL Iwill finance two components: (i) Net Activities; and (ii)
                                                    Safety                       Institutional Support.
The first component comprises two sub components: a) public works and (b) direct support.
Some communities will spend nearly all of the program resources on public works. However,


 The Bank project will support certain woredas within the Government's Program.


                                                       35

communities with a highshare o f widows or female-headed households will inevitably use more
resources for direct support. For the purposes o f implementation there i s no strict criteria for the
division o f resources that go to public works or direct support. The Community Food Security
Task Force (CFSTF) will determine which households will participate inpublic works and in
direct support.

ProjectComponent1: SafetyNet Activities-EstimatedCost: US$64.7 millionequivalent

A.       PUBLIC WORKS

Public works are labor intensive community-basedactivities which are designed to provide
employment for chronically food insecure people who have "able-bodied" labor. Resources for
this component will include grants as wages for labor provided inpublic works projects as well
as capital inputs and administrative costs.

The selection o f sub-projects to be undertaken under the public works component will be driven
by the local planning process inorder to identify community needs and prioritize sub-projects
based on those needs. The planning process i s crucial to the success o fthe public works sub-
projects, allowing a pipeline o f public works sub-projects to be developed. This will permit the
appropriate planning o f public works according to seasonalrestrictions, and the rapid scalability
o f the public works should needs withina woreda increase due to shocks.

Planning starts by identifying the key outcomes the community wishes to achieve and then
developing an appropriate prioritized list o f sub-projects that will achieve these outcomes.
Although the principal level of decision-making for determining appropriate sub-projects will be
the community, sub-projects determinedto be priority by the woreda level should also be
included inthe pipelineo f plannedpublic works sub-projects.

The creation o f householdassets i s not the direct objective o f the public works sub-projects, and
households cannot be paid to work on their own plots or assets. However, certain sub-projects,
particularly those critical to watershed management, require work to be undertaken on both
household and community land ifoutcomes are to be achieved. Inthis situation public works that
take place on householdland are permitted.These activities mustbe endorsed through the
community planning process. Inaddition, public works sub-projects can be undertaken on
household landbelonging to female-headed households with no labor inorder to enhance their
productivity. These sub-projects mustbe endorsed through the community planning process. It
should be noted that other parts o f the Government's FSP do help to buildhousehold assets.

Certain sub-projects are not eligible under the public works. These include four main types o f
sub-projects:
   i. Sub-projectsdesignedtodevelop householdassets,unlessthespecificcriteriamentioned
        above are met.

 ...
  ii. Sub-projectsthatsolelybenefitprivate,for-profitorganizations.
 111.    Sub-projects to undertake regular, minimal maintenance activities and maintenance
        activities on assets that the community already undertakes as an in-kindcontribution to
        the protection o f those assets.



                                                 36

 iv.      Sub-projects for military or defense purposes.

Priorities, desirable outcomes and connected projects will vary based on location. Examples o f
outcomes and sub-projects are outlined inTable 4-1 below.

               TABLE4-1: EXAMPLESPUBLICWORKSOUTCOMESAND SUB-PROJECTS
                                                   OF


                      Outcomes                                             Community Level Sub-projects           *
     Improved land productivity and soil                      Area closureslwood lots
     fertility restoration                                    Multi-layeredlstoried agro-forestry
                                                              Physical conservation measures, e.g. hill side terracing.
                                                              Micro-niche development
                                                              Biological measures
                                                              Mulching o f degraded areas
     Increased land availability                              Gully control
                                                              Land reclamation o f extremely degraded land
     Improved market infrastructure                           Roads and bridges
                                                              market yards and storage
                                                              stock routes
     Improved access to drinking and                          Stream diversion
     irrigation water                                         Spring development
                                                              Shallow wells
                                                              Micro dams
                                                              Water ponds
                                                              Drainage and water canalslconduits
                                                              Infiltration pits
                                                              Seepage control measures
     Increasedavailability o f fodder                    0    Vegetative fencing and fodder belts

                                                         0    Conservation measures
                                                         0    Fodder seed collection
                                                         0    Paddock systems
                                                         0    Water logging control
                                                         0    Multi-purpose nurseries
     Improved school and health fac                           Repairing classrooms and health facilities
                                                         0    Buildlatrines

                                                         0    Buildclassrooms and health facilities.
     Improved child care-creches                         0    Buildchild care centre
                                                         0    Runchild care centre

* Note :public works sub-projects should be on community land at the community level. However, on an exceptional basis, works sub-projects
can be done on household land (i) that are criticalfor watershed management, (ii)for female-headed households that have no labor.


Public works inpastoralist areas
Inpastoral areas, emphasis is ona set of interventionsthat reduce riskandincrease the resilience
of communities to shocks. Major interventions include:
     Development o f water points (using traditional and innovative methods);
     Reclamation and rehabilitation of grazing areas and creation o f grazing reserves through
     improvedwater harvesting and conservation-based sub-projects (rainfall multiplier systems
     for improvedpastures, agro-pastoralist systems, irrigation, etc.);
     Agro-forestry systems ingrazing reserves to improve aerial pasture and multipurpose
     species, and access to fruits, dyes and gums;



                                                                     37

    Other initiatives related to livestock trade and livestock health;
    Development o f sustained agro-pastoral systemsthrough rehabilitation o f crusted and
    degraded areas (use o f runoff/run-on systems integrated with dry land conservation
    measures); and
    Windbreaks and fodder belts.

B.      ACTIVITIES FORDIRECTSUPPORT OFLABORPOOR HOUSEHOLDS

The direct support activity is a mechanism for providing grants to the most needy members o f
the community, thereby protecting the lives o f community members who cannot work and do not
have any other reliable support. The sub-projects underthe direct support activities are designed
to be sensitive to the labor constraints of the individual beneficiaries. Since the activities are
targetedat labor poor households, they should be light inlabor demand, but be useful at the
same time to the individuals and the community. These sub-projects include:
    community child care centers at public works sites;
    community-managed child care centers invillages to (i) adult able-bodied labor in
                                                                free
    households inthe community and (ii) girls o f school-going age from domestic chores to
                                             free
    enable them to attend school;
    participation inchild nutrition and growth promotion classes; and
    participation inadult literacy/numeracy classes.

c.      SELECTION OF HOUSEHOLDSFOR SAFETY NETDIRECT SUPPORT OR PUBLIC WORKS

Administrative and community targeting systemwill be applied inthe selection o f eligible
participants for the PSNP. Self-targeting based on the wage rate i s not applicable since
alternative employment opportunities are either non-existent or minimal especially inchronically
food insecure areas o f the country. The roles and responsibilities o f each body involved in
targeting are outlined inthe PIM.

The identification o f eligible households i s the responsibility o f each CFSTF. Beneficiary
household are identified on the basis o f the following criteria:

a) General criteriafor selection of households
The following general criteria (inaddition to the specific criteria outlined below) should be used
to select households for participation inthe PSNP:
    Those chronically food insecure households who have faced continuous food shortages
    (usually three months o f food gap or more) inthe last three years and who have received
    food assistance;
    This should also include households who suddenly become more food insecure as a result o f
    a severe loss o f assets and are unable to support themselves (last one to two years); and
    Any householdwithout family support and other means of social protection and support.

b) Specific criteriafor selection of households
The following conditions, and others where necessary, can be considered inthe selection o f
eligible households:
.
    Households should be memberso f the community;



                                                   38

1   Status o f householdassets: land holding, quality o f land, food stock, etc;
1   Status o f expected household food production compared with household monthly
.   consumptionrequirements;
    Income from non-agricultural activities and alternative employment;
1   Supporth-emittances from relatives or community;
1   Family size and number o f dependents inhousehold.

Once a household has been selected to participate inthe PSNP, the CFSTF determines whether it
participates inthe public works or direct support. Eligibilityfor public works will be based on
the following criteria:

    Public work i s intendedfor able-bodied adult men and women from households which are i)
    chronically food insecure rural households, and ii)facing severe food shortages and will not
    be able to meet their basic food needs while preservingessential productive assets.
    An individual is eligible to work inpublic works ifhe/she i s anable-bodied adult; accepted
    by the community as filling the established selection criteria; and a member o fthe
    community.
    This includes pregnant women up to six months and lactating women after six months and
    female heads o f households. It excludes sick or mentally challenged people unable to
    undertake even light work; pregnant women after the sixthmonth; and lactating women in
    the first six months after child birth.

The direct support targets two groups o f individuals under a strict criteria:


0   The first group o f individuals include those without labor to participate inpublic works;
    those who do not have sufficient and reliable support from sonddaughters, or remittances
    from relatives away from the village; and cannot participate or contribute to other
    community-based activitieshnitiatives. Such individuals include some disabled persons.
0   The second group eligible for direct support include those who do not have labor to
    participate inpublic works; those who do not have sufficient and reliable support from
    sonddaughters, or remittances from relatives away from the village, but can participate or
    contribute inother community activities (e.g. managing day-care facilities). Such individuals
    include lactating mothers (inthe first six months after birth), pregnant women and orphaned
    teenagers.

ProjectComponent2: InstitutionalSupport-- EstimatedCost: US$1.3 millionequivalent

This component focuses on strengtheningall aspects ofprogram implementation, with a focus on
three key areas :


(i)     Capacity building and training.This addresses three important areas o f capacity building
        inthe program: (a) at community level, to strengthenbeneficiaryidentification and local
        level planning, which will focus on the design and updating o f appropriate handbooks for
        use by communities to strengthencritical, local-level aspects o f program
        implementation. This will also include the design o f modular training programs to help
        buildcapacity incommunities where familiarity withthese types o f approaches is



                                                  39

        lacking, (b) technical training at the woreda and regional levels, which will focus on the
        production o f detailedtechnical handbooks for use by woreda line staff and DAs to
        ensure that best practice technical standards are used inproject designand construction,
        andthat staff are aware of new techniques and approaches inenvironmental management
        and rehabilitation, and (c) capacity buildingat the woreda and regional levels to ensure
        smooth program implementation, which will finance training and the production o f
        materials to ensure that staff are conversant inprogram procedures, particularly relating
        to financial management and procurement. Efforts will also be made to ensure that
        ongoing capacity buildinginitiatives, such as the PSCAP, are leveragedfor building
        capacity to implement the PSNP.

(ii)    Monitoring and evaluationframework and theprogram's MIS. These aspects o f the
        program are considered to be vital; they will ensure that problems can be identifiedand
        remedied as they emerge, that lessons learned can be incorporated into program design,
        and that ultimately program outcomes can be adequately assessed. With this aim, Bank
        support will focus on developing, (a) an MIS systemthat collects information on program
        participants, assets created through public works activities, and local prices, and (b) a
        monitoring and evaluation systembased on measurable input, process, output and
        outcome indicators. This will include the implementationo f a baseline beneficiary
        survey, anda detailed program "process" survey after the first year o f implementation. It
        will also finance several additional studies as part o f the shiftto Phase I1o fthe APL that
        will focus on further refinement o fthe direct support component o fthe project, and
        further development o f the deferredpayment system.

(iii)   Procurement of essentialgoods and services. This will finance procurement to facilitate
        support and supervision of the federal and regional governments to ensure smooth
        implementation o f the program. This includes procurement necessary for establishing and
        maintaining the MIS and it will finance bulkprocurement at the federal level such as
        purchase o f vehicles for support staff at the woreda level.

Size of Program Beneficiaries, Contingency Planning and Managing Emergencies

The list o f program participantsthat will beprepared in2004 by CFSTFs will form the form the
baseline. Each CFSTF will update and adjust the list o f eligible households twice a year (at the
beginningo fthe program cycle inSeptember/October, and inApril/May). InSeptember/October
o f each subsequent year, the community will update this list based on the following criteria.
.   To correct errors o f inclusion and exclusion, for example to remove a householdthat i s on
    the list but is not chronically food insecure and to include a householdwho is not on the list
    but is chronically food insecure;
    Ifinthe course ofthe year, ahouseholdbecomeschronically food insecure dueto badluck.
    This includes a householdthat loses a bread winner, for example, and does not have other
    means o f support.

These two criteria will increase or decrease the number o f chronically food insecure households
on the list. Inthe event that the updated number of chronically food insecure increases from the
previous year's number by more than five percent, the WFSTF will verify the list. Ifafter careful
verification, the list o f beneficiaries i s confirmed, the updated list will be accepted by the
woreda.


                                                     40

The annual assessment should also estimate the increase or decrease innumber o f months of
need for the listed households. An increase inneedmay occur for several reasons, including a
drought, crop damage, increased prices, animal disease outbreak, etc.

InApril/May of each year the community will undertake a mid-year needs assessment usingthe
above procedures, and for the same goals. At any time during the year, the list can be updated
based on a successful appeal process at the kebele or woreda levels.

Note that if,because o f a significant crop failure, many more households become food insecure,
they would not be automatically added onto the list ofthe chronically food insecure, because
they do not meet the criterion o f beingchronically food insecure. The additional number o f
households who have become food insecure will be supported by the contingency budget or by
the DPPC.

ContingencyPlanning

Program funds are made up o f an annual base program cost and a contingency. Duringthe
course o f the safety net planimplementation, the following situations may occur, during which
contingency funds would be used:
    The list o f chronically food insecure households increases above the baseline after correcting
    for inclusion and exclusion errors;
    Inthe course ofimplementationthe list ofchronically food insecure households increases
    above the baseline because some households encounter shocks that makes them food
    insecure for the rest o f the year;
    The need o f Programparticipants increases because o f shocks, e.g. a drought increases food
    gap from, say, six months to eight months;
    The price o f grain inthe woreda increases considerably during program implementation,
    substantially eroding the value o f grants to the chronically food insecure households;
    A localized andmodest shock that affects households that are not chronically food insecure
    inthe food insecure woredas.

The contingency funds are equal to 20 percent o fthe base program cost. The BOARDis
responsible for managing 15 percent o f the contingency fund while the WRDO i s responsible for
managing the other 5 percent. The procedures for the use o fthe contingency funds are outlined
inthe PIM. Contingency fundsfor the PSNP may be inadequate for two reasons:
    Ifthe increaseinthe overall numberofparticipantsidentifiedonthe basis ofthe mid-year
    review exceeds 20 percent, evenafter careful verification is done; and/or
    The number o f additional months for which households participating inthe Program need
    support exceeds the number of months that can be covered under contingency (an increase o f
    more than 20 percent).
Inthe event that the above situations above arise, the regionwill appeal to the MoARD/FSCB
for additional Program resources from the multi-annual budget.




                                                   41

At the endo fthe year, unusedcontingency fundswill berolledover as part o fthe contingency
fundingfor the following year. The contingency budget for that year will be replenished only up
to 20 percent o fthat year's program base cost.

Emergencies

Ina badyear (a large shock that is not localized) or successivebadyears, many households who
are not Program beneficiaries, but are inchronically food insecure woredas will become food
insecure; and other households outside the food insecure woredas will also become needy.

Inbothcases, this is considered anemergency and additional resources needto bemobilized.
The DPPO and DPPB shouldnotify the DPPC and appeal for more resources.

        TABLE :ROLES RESPONSIBILITIESDURING ANEMERGENCY
                4-2          AND                                              SITUATION


                      Mobilization   Responsibility    Managementand         Provision of capital
                      and Provision  for Distribution  Organizing Activities and Admin. costs
                      of Resources   of Grants or
                                     Food
Program               SafetyNet     IWoreda           IWRDO/FSO             IProgramResources        1
Beneficiaries         Food/Grants    cashiedfood
                                     storekeeper
                                     using Program
                                     resources
Additional            DPPC           Woreda food       WRDO/FSO in           GOE, Donors or
Beneficiaries due to  Food/Grants    storekeeper       conjunction with      Unnecessary
Emergency                            usingDPPC         DPPB
                                     resources




                                                42

-m              a               U
Y
3               0               a
                                U

m
L               C               a
2!                              (c
                 LT             0
                0               U
U J             n               (c




L               U
fcx
m               U               n
                                d
                d               U
                C               U
                C
                U               n
                                r

                U               a

z               n               C
f               IC
                U               U
                                U
5.              C
                :               a
                                d
                                b
                U               b




                U               r
                                a
                r
                d
                                r
                                C
m
e
f2              ::
                a               d
                                b
                U               b




fv
z               E               n
                r               C
                                n
                U               U
                r
                U               T
                                C
N               U               b


f2              b
                b               r     C
                U               0
                                b    a
                                      C

CI              b
In              f               2U  n
r               r                     f
                U               U     b



r               C               C
i               C
                C               C
                                C           M
%               0                           d
                U               C
                                C
2               r               (c
                n               r




                 c
                 E
                 E
                c




                2
                c
                E



    %08 %OZ%08 %Oi            ase,
                       3 %OZ 40 %!



     c      'c
     0      0
     s      -s
     co
     0      0
            N




                                      +
                                      u:

                                     cE
                                      fE
                                     ??
                                      LL

                               Annex 5: ProjectCosts, Cont'd.
                    ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNetProject


Project Cost By Component and/or Activity        Local         Foreign      Total
                                                US$million   U S $million US $million
Component 1: Safety Net Activities                  64.7                      64.7
 Sub component a) Public works                          51.8                       51.8
 Sub component b) Direct support                        12.9                       12.9
Component 2: Institutional Support                    0.7         0.6          1.3
Total Baseline Cost                                 65.4          0.6         66.0
Physical Contingencies                                4.0                      4.0
Price Contingencies
                          TotalProjectCosts         69.4          0.6         70.0
                   Interest during construction
                                 Front-end Fee
                   TotalFinancingRequired           69.4           0.6        70.0




                                              44

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                       ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafety Net Project

The PSNP i s a component o f the larger FSP. Food security line agencies at every level of
Government will be accountable for the oversight and coordination o f the Program, with
implementation o f program activities beingundertaken by woredas and kebeles, line
ministry/agencies and other partners.

I. INSTITUTIONALSET-UPANDRESPONSIBILITIES

The following roles and responsibilities are envisaged for key government agencies at each level.

FederalLevel

(i) TheMinistry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD)

The MoARDis responsible for oversight and coordination ofthe PSNP. Itwill liaise with other
ministries and development partners to ensure coordination and coherence o f the PSNP within
the FSP. Its roles also include:
     Provision o f technical support for planning and implementationo f PSNP activities, including
     the development o f technical guidelines, and training, including for specific public works and
     based on request from the Food Security Coordination Bureau andthe regions;
     Liaison with other line ministries (water, social affairs, etc) and development partners for
     technical assistance, for example, with respect to pastoral areas, joint integrated efforts,
     training and technical guidelines, as necessary and based upon request.

(ii) Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau (FSCB)

The FSCB is the operational bureauo fMoARDfor the implementationo fthe PSNP. As such it
reports directly to MoARD. Its duties and responsibilities cover the overall coordination o f the
program implementationmanagement process at all levels o f operations as well as all core
management functions. Its main responsibilities include:
(a) Strategic management:
     Coordinate and oversee the PSNP to ensure that the program meets food security objectives
     o f the country; and
     Ensure appropriate linkages o f the PSNP with other FSP interventions.

(b) Operations management:
e    Hold quarterly meetings with regional food security offices to review progress o f the PSNP
     and discuss related safety net issues; and
e    Review and provide feedback on reports submittedby regional food security offices on the
     implementationo f regional activities.

(c) Financial management:
0    Submitquarterly progress physical and financial reports on implementation ofthe PSNP to
     MoARD;and


                                                  45

     Submit quarterly financial report onutilization of safety net budgetto Ministry of Finance
     and Economic Development (MoFED).

(d) Technical support and assistance:
0    Provide technical support to regional food security offices on coordination and
     implementation o f sub-projects;
0    Mobilize technical assistance as neededfrom sectoral agencies; and
0    Facilitate information exchange and document experiences and lessons learned across
     regions.

(e) Monitoringand evaluation:
0    Monitor and evaluate effectiveness o f utilization o f resources and program impact;
0    Submit quarterly monitoring and evaluation reports to MoARD; and
0    Oversee the assessment o f the management process o fthe PSNP, and coordinate adjustments
     with the regions.

iii) Federal Food Security Steering Committee (FFSSC)

The FederalFood Security Steering Committee (FFSSC) provides overall advice to ensure the
proper implementation o f food security strategies and programs, including the PSNP. The
FFSSC i s made up o f representatives from MoARD (chair o f FFSSC), the FSCB (secretary o f
FFSSC), MoFED, the Ministryo f Federal Affairs, the Disaster Preparedness and Prevention
Commission (DPPC), the Ministry o f Water Resources Development, the Regional Food
Security Coordination Offices (RFSCO), and the representatives o fthe donor community
(currently at 4). Its duties and responsibilities include:

(a) Strategic management:
0    Offer overall advice to meet food security objectives; and
0    Provide periodic recommendations to MoARD.

(b) Operations management:
     Hold quarterly meetings, with a specific agenda for safety net issues.

(c) Financial management :
0    Assess the resource contribution o f the Government and donors.

(d) Technical support and assistance:
     Liaise closely with the agricultural and natural resources main divisions o f MoARD with
     regards to the provision o ftechnical support to regions (e.g. training, development o f
     technical manuals, and guidelines).

(e) Monitoring and evaluation:
     Perform annual review o f the FSP and forward recommendations for implementation.




                                                   46

iv) Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission(DPPC)

The DPPC's primary mandate has beennarrowed to responding to the food and other basic needs
o f people affected by acute, unpredictable disasters under emergency appeal circumstances.
However, givenits substantial logistic capacity and experience with management o f food aid, it
will still play a key role as partner as needed, including,

(a) Operations management:
    Operating and publicising information from the national EarlyWarning System;
    Participating inthe Combined Annual Food Security Needs Assessment to be conducted for
    the PSNP and any emergency;
    Assisting on logistic issues (movement, timely delivery, storage) for food resources, when
    needed. MoARD inconsultation with Regional Bureaus o f Agriculture and Rural
    Development will give instructions to the DPPC at all levels to fulfil this function;
    Participating inannual reviewsconducted by MoARD to identify areas where coordination
    needs to be improved; and
    Ensurea coordinateduse of emergency resources inaccordance with safety net planning
    guidelines and standards.

(b) Technical support and assistance:
    Assist local-level food security tasks forces inthe management o f emergency resources.

v) Ministry of Finance and Economic Development(MoFED)

Inthe context ofthe PSNP, MoFED is responsible for mobilizing and allocatingsafety net
resources to regions based on the size o f food insecure population and inline with requests from
regions.

Regional Level

i) Regional CounciVCabinet

The Regional Council/Cabinet i s the highestdecision-making body at the regional level. Its
major responsibilities related to the PSNP include reviewingand approving:

(a) Operations management
0   Food security and safety net annual plans and budgets submittedby woredas through the
    Regional Bureau o f Agriculture and Rural Development (BOARD)based on the size o f
    chronic food insecure population.

(b) Financialmanagement
0   Annual and quarterly progress reports on the utilization o f the regional PSNP budget.

(c) Monitoring and evaluation
0   Annual and quarterly progress reports on implementation o fthe regional PSNP, after review
    by the BoARD.



                                                   47

ii) Regional Food SecuritySteering Committee (RFFSC)

The RegionalFood Security Steering Committee (RFSSC) is madeup ofrepresentatives from
the Regional Bureauof Agriculture and RuralDevelopment (chair of RFSSC), the Regional
Food Security Coordination Bureau(secretary of FFSSC), the Bureau of Finance and Economic
Development (BoFED), the Bureauof Capacity Building, the Disaster Preparednessand
Prevention Bureau, the Bureau of Water Resources, the Bureau ofNatural Resources and Land
Administration, the Bureau of Cooperatives Promotion; andNGO representatives. Its main
responsibilities include:

(a) Strategic management
0    Providingadvice to ensure the proper implementationof food security strategies and
     programs at the regional level;
0    Ensuring effective integration of the regional PSNP into the regional development plan; and
0    Providing directives to woreda to facilitate joint planning for the FSP, and ensure that safety
     net plans are part of the existing and future FSP.

(b) Monitoring and evaluation
0    Preparing quarterly and annual synthesis reports which are submittedto the FSCB.

iii) RegionalBureau of Agriculture and Rural Development (BOARD)

Its duties include:

(a) Operations management
     Overseeing the integration of safety net activities into the FSP and the regional rural
     development strategy; and
     Providing overall guidanceto the Regional Food Security Coordination Office and line
     bureausto ensure coordination on planning and implementation of the regional PSNP.

(b) Financial management
0    Opening a bank account at the regional level;
0    Disbursing funds to the WoFED basedon approved safety net plan;
0    Receiving financial reports from WoFED, consolidating and sending to MoARD; and
0    Receiving procurement requests from woredas and undertaking procurement as appropriate.

(c) Technical support and assistance
0    Providingtechnical support to regional food security offices on implementation o f safety net
     and related activities.

(d) Monitoring and evaluation
0    Undertaking spot checks at woreda levelto ensure that selection guidelines for safety net
     planbeneficiaries have been followed; and
0    Reviewingand providing feedback on reports submittedby Regional Food Security
     Coordination Offices on implementation of safety net interventions.


                                                   48

iv) Regional Food Security Coordination Office (RFSCO)

The Regional Food Security Coordination Office (RFSCO) reports to BoARD. However, it is
also technically accountable to the FSCB within the PSNP framework. The RFSCO acts as
secretary o f the RFSSC. Its responsibilitiesalso include:

(a) Operations management
    Developing and consolidating annual implementation plans for regional PSNPs inline with
    proposals from woredas and line bureaus;
    Approving N G O plans o f safety net activities, budget and beneficiaries, and consolidating
    these into regional safety net plans; and
    Collecting and reviewing progress reports from woredas, line bureaus and other agencies
    engaged insafety net interventions, and providing feedback to those organizations.

(b) Financial management
    Preparing indicative woreda budgets, ifneeds are higher than indicative budgets, make
    adjustments and send to Regional Council for review and approval; and
    Giving instructions to WoFED to make payments to beneficiaries and to suppliers based on
    the annual allocation approved by the Regional Council.

(c)Technical support and assistance
0   Mobilizing technical assistance as neededfrom the regional line bureaus.

(d) Monitoringand evaluation
    Holding quarterly review meetingswith government and non-governmental agencies
    involved inimplementation o fthe PSNP inthe regions, to monitor and coordinate safety net
    interventions;
    Coordinating monitoring and evaluation o f PSNP activities (annual reviews and in-depth
    evaluations);
    Compiling the woreda reports and preparing quarterly and annual progress reports on
    physical and financial implementation o f the PSNP for submissionto the BoARD and FSCB.

v) Regional Line Bureaus

These agencies responsibilities include:

(a) Technical support and assistance
    Provide technical assistance to RFSCO and woreda line offices inplanning, implementation
    and monitoring o f safety net activities.

(b) Monitoringand evaluation
    Undertake annual reviewsof technical specifications and work norms o f Safety Net activities
    to assist inenhancing the safety net technical manual.




                                                 49

Woreda Level

The woreda is the key level o f government that determines needs, and undertakes planningand
implementation o f PSNP activities.

i) Woreda CounciUCabinet

The Woreda Council is the highest decision-makingbody at woreda level and is responsible for
the allocation o f safety net resources to kebeles inline with size o f vulnerable population and
based on the recommendations o fthe Woreda Food Security Task Force.

ii) WoredaFood Security TaskForce (WFSTF)

This committee will not duplicate existing similar structures, but will build upon previous
institutions such as the Woreda Development Committee or the Woreda Disaster Prevention
Committee, where relevant, and will be strengthened as necessary. Where such committees do
not exist, the WFSTF should be made up of the head o f the Woreda Rural Development Office
or the Woreda Administration (who acts as chairperson), and representatives from the Woreda
offices of: Food Security (who acts as secretary), Finance, Natural Resource Office, Capacity
Building, Agriculture and Rural Development, the DPPB, Women's Affairs, andNGOs.
Inclusion of women inthe committee i s encouraged. The WFSTF's duties withinthe PSNP
include:

(a) Operations management
    Review and recommend kebele annual safety net plans for approval, including the total
    number ofbeneficiaries ofthe PSNP;
    Consolidate annual woreda safety net plans and prepare proposals for resource allocation to
    be submittedto Woreda Council; and
    Ensureclose collaborationwith RegionalandWoreda Food Security Offices and Woreda
    Council.

(b) Financialmanagement
0   Develop a budget from kebele safety net plans, and prepare an implementation plan with a
    timetable; and
0   Submit the budget to the Woreda Council for approval. The budget i s then sent through the
    WRDO to the RFSCO.

(c) Technical support and assistance
0   Provide direction and assistance to kebeles inestablishing and training KFSTFs.

(d) Monitoring and evaluation
    Participate inmonitoring and evaluation o f PSNP activities; and
    Holdquarterly progress review meeting on safety net activities and provide implementing
    agencies with feedback.




                                                  50

iii) WoredaRural Development Office (WRDO)

The Heado f WRDO acts as chair ofthe WFSTF. Other functions o fthe WRDO include:

(a) Strategic management
0   Oversee integration o f safety net activities into the FSP and the woreda rural development
    strategy.

(b) Operations management
0   Coordinate implementationagencies involved inthe PSNP.

(c) Technical support and assistance
0   Ensure provision o f technical input from Woreda sectoral offices to the safety net
    implementingagencies.

(d) Monitoring and evaluation
    Receive and review monitoring reports from WFSTF, and forward to the WSFTF for review
     and approval, and transmissionto the Woreda Council;
    Participate (withWFSD and WFSO staff) inthe in-depth assessment under the coordination
     o f the RFFSC;
     Submitmonthly progress reports to the WFSTF; and
     Maintain accurate records o f kebele safety net activities and beneficiary lists.

iv) WoredaFood SecurityDesks (WFSD)

The WFSDs are responsible for coordinationof PSNP activities and are technically accountable
to the RFSCOs. Their duties include:

(a) Strategic management
     Act as Secretary for the WFSTF and for the Early Warning Committee, and as a focal point
     for all Program issues inthe woreda.

(b) Operations management
     Ensurethat a pipelineo fprojects is prepared (including those to be implemented duringthe
     annual program cycle and those to be implementedincase o f emergency) inconsultation
     with the Kebele Food Security Task Force; and
     Holdquarterly technical review meeting with implementingagencies.

(c) Technical support and assistance
     Mobilise technical assistance as needed from woreda sectoral offices; and
     Provide information on target areas and selected beneficiaries to sectoral offices and other
     agencies involved inplanning and implementing Program activities.

(d) Monitoring and evaluation
     Undertake regular monitoring and evaluation incoordination with woreda sectoral offices;
     Submit monthly progress reportsto the WRDO; and



                                                   51

    Maintain accurate records o f kebeleprogram activities and list o f beneficiaries.

v) WoredaSectoral Offices (Line Offices)

These include woreda offices and desks of Agriculture, Rural Roads, Water, Natural Resource
Management, Education, Health, Cooperative Promotion and Women's Affairs. The
responsibilities o f these agencies include:

(a) Operations management
    Consolidate and compiling the proposals o f the Kebele Food Security Task Force to
    incorporate into the woreda safety net plan; and
    Oversees the implementation o fprogram activities at kebele and community levels.

(b) Technical support and assistance
    Provide technical assistance to kebeles inplanning and implementation o f PSNP activities.

(c) Monitoring and evaluation
    Conduct monitoring and evaluation o f activities, incollaborationwith other relevant woreda
    level stakeholders; and
    Prepare and submit quarterly progress and financial reports to WRDO.

vi) Woreda Office of Finance and Economic Development (WoFED)

Responsibilities o f WoFED include:
    Making payments to beneficiaries and to suppliers based on instructions from the WRDO;
    Preparing financial reports and send them to BOARD;and
    Undertakingprocurement under instruction from WRDO.

Kebele Level

i) Kebele CounciUCabinet

This body is the highest political decision-making body inthe kebele. The kebele council/cabinet
will have the following responsibilities:

(a) Operations management
0   Review and approve the kebele safety net plan, including list o fbeneficiaries;
0   Submitthe final list o fparticipants at kebele levelto WFSTF for approval and further action;
0   Ensurethat the PSNP is linked, and consistent with, other FSP interventions;
0   Oversee food security activities inthe kebele, including those o f the PSNP; and
0   Hear and consider individuals' complaints or appeals regarding Program issues on the
    beneficiary selection process and take appropriate corrective measures inconsultation with
    the WFSTF.

(b) Monitoring and evaluation
    Prepare monthly reports for the woreda cabinet; and



                                                 52

    Participate as requiredinthe monitoring and evaluation systemfor the FSP.

ii) Kebele Food Security Task Force (KFSTF)

The KFSTF i s a decision-making body that oversees all planning and implementation o f safety
net activities. It i s formed ineach PeasantAssociation or kebele and builds upon previous
institutional structures such as Kebele Development Committee or Kebele Disaster Prevention
Committee. KFSTF membersincludethe Kebele Administration, Development Agents,
Community-based Health Workers, Teachers, Youth associations, etc. The minimum
composition o f the KFSTFincludes: a Chairperson o f the Kebele Council, a member from the
Kebele Council, one or more Development Agents (DAs) as available inthe Peasant
Association; three elected representatives o f women's groups; and two elected representatives
from elders and youth (one from each group). Inthe context o fthe PSNP, the KSFTF i s
responsible for:

(a) Operations management
    Agreeing with the woreda onthe general implementationprocedures and roles and
    responsibilities o f concerned individuals;
    Identifying people eligible for public works and direct support;
    Mobilizing the CFSTF and community membersto identify and prioritise community needs;
    Planning prioritized activities with community members;
    Targeting beneficiaries and participants for public works and direct support based on
    community targeting exercises;
    Preparing kebele safety net plans with the DAs inconsultation with woreda sectoral offices,
    including public works activities, list o f beneficiaries, and estimate o f resources needed;
    Submittingsafety net plans to WFSTF for consolidation and preparationof an
    implementation plan; and
    Ensuringthat each safety net beneficiary householdparticipates inother FSP interventions as
    appropriate.

(b) Technical support and assistance
0   Establishing and training o f Community Food Security Task Force.

(c) Monitoringand evaluation
    Maintaining records on the status o f beneficiary households and keepingthe community
    informed;
    Maintaining minuteso f KFSTFmeetings on Program issues and activities, list o f
    participants, and progress reports;
    Preparing a monthly monitoring report which includes cumulative totals for each category o f
    input, activity and output as well as observed constraints andresolutions;
    Updating asset / income information on food insecure households on an annual basis to
    identify households for graduation; and
    Reviewingo fthe results ofmonitoring and evaluation.




                                                  53

CommunityLevel

 Community Food Security Task Force (CFSTF)

The CFSTF's primary responsibility is identification of beneficiaries o fthe PSNP. Its functions
also include mobilisation o f the community for participatory planning exercises. It i s composed
o f a representative from the KFSTF; a Development Agent (ifavailable inthe village); two or
three women's representatives (elected); two or three men's representatives (elected); a youth
representative (elected); and an elder's representative (elected). The responsibilities o f the
CFSTF are to:

(a) Operations management
    Identify the names o f participants inthe PSNP intheir respective villages according to
    selection guidelines and local community knowledge;
    Undertakea needs assessment, and identify those households who canparticipate inpublic
    works and those without sufficient labour (particularly female-headed households), or other
    support who will need direct support;
    Comment on the proposed list o f participants and endorse the list ina general meeting o f the
    village residents;
    Finalize the list o f participants and submit it to the KFSTF for verification and action;
    Prepare a pipeline o fprojects, including those to be implemented during the annual program
    cycle and those to be implemented incase o f emergency, with technical assistance from
    implementing agencies andNGOs; and
    Participate inidentification o f which households are ready for graduation inthe annual
    assessment (asset / income information), and submit the list to community members for
    validation.

(b) Monitoring and evaluation
    Monitor periodically the public works to ensure that they are undertaken as prioritized; and
    Participate inthe community annual asset / income information assessment with KSFTF.

Role of NGOs

Implementation o f the PSNP should utilize and benefit from the participation o f non-
governmental actors having relevant capacity, experience and expertise.
    The PSNP i s a social security intervention and typically the government has the primary
    responsibility for implementation o f such programs.
    Giventhat the nature o fthe Program is to guarantee transfers to chronically food insecure
    households, it i s important that Program capital and administrative cost i s kept to the
    program norm o f a maximum o f 20 percent.
    NGO resources should be additional to government safety net resources.
    NGOs should abide by the Government's PIM.

NGOs should consult the government to discuss potential options for their involvement inthe
Program, within the above guidelines.




                                                   54

Role of Donors

The Government's financing partners have several roles inthe PSNP, including:
e   Providing resources at the appropriate time;
    Supporting capacity building and providing technical assistance at all levels, when requested
    by the Government;
    Documenting and disseminating lessons learned and international experience;
    Organizingjoint reviewmeetings with Government to reviewprogress on implementation;
    Providing advice by participating inthe FFSSC; and
    Participating inannual reviewmissions, including site visits, monitoring and evaluation.

11.     ROLES RESPONSIBILITIESFORTHE PURPOSESOFGRANTMANAGEMENT
                AND


The responsibilities for the management o f grants are assigned to the following government
organizations at each level (federal, regional, woreda, kebele, and community). Grants are
provided to eligible beneficiaries o f the PSNP inaccordance with targeting and eligibility criteria
for participation to public works and direct support (see Annex 4).

Grants management i s structured around a two-way process : (i) upstream process for the
                                                                  an
identification and the formulation of the kebele safety net plan, starting at the community and
kebele levels and moving upwards to the woredas which consolidates the plans, and then sends
the woreda planto the regions for approval, and(ii)downstream/ upstream process from the
                                                     a
federal level down to the regions and to woredas for the allocation o f budgets for safety net
plans.

Preparation of Safetv Net Plans

i) The Community Level

Inthe first year o fprogram operation, eachparticipatingcommunity receives support from the
KSFTFto establish a CSFTF. The community reviews, and is invitedto endorse ina general
assembly, the membershipo f the CFSTF.

The CSFTF identifies and formulates the list of needs andpriorities for the preparation o fthe
safety net plan, including the names of participants intheir respective villages according to
selection guidelines and local community knowledge.

The CSFTF also prepares a pipeline o fprojects, including those to be implemented duringthe
annual program cycle and those to be implementedincase o f emergency, with technical
assistance from kebele development agents, other sectoral implementing agencies and NGOs.

ii) TheKebele Level

The KSFTFconsolidates all lists o fneeds and priorities prepared by the CSFTF and prepares
two types o f aggregated information from the communities (i)   the number o fchronically food
insecure beneficiaries for public works and direct support, and (ii) the identified public works



                                                 55

sub-projects which should be included inthe existing kebele plan, as well as potential technical
needs to implement the public works.

On this basis, the KSFTF prepares the kebele safety net plan, which include public works sub-
projects to be undertaken, the list o f beneficiaries, and estimates o f the resources needed. Ifthe
kebele has already prepared a kebele development plan, the KSFTF adapts the plan to integrate
new needs and priorities identifiedby the CFSTF, and specifies which activities withinthe
development plan will be undertaken under the PSNP.

Once the kebele safety net plan has been established, it i s presentedto a general meeting o f
community members inthe kebele for review and endorsement.

The Kebele Council reviews the kebele safety net plan, includingthe list o f beneficiaries. It
submitsthe final list ofparticipants at kebele level to the woreda level for approval and further
action, and ensures that the PSNP i s linked, and consistent with, other FSP interventions. The
Kebele Council also receives and considers individuals' complaints or appeals regarding the
beneficiary selection process and the Council takes appropriate corrective measures when
necessary.

iii) The WoredaLevel

The WRDO receives the kebele safety net plans. It aggregates these plans into three categories:
(i) listofbeneficiariesforpublicworks,andthelistofbeneficiariesfordirectsupport,and
    the
the estimate o fresources required ingrants and food, (ii) public works sub-projects to be
                                                             the
implemented, and their capital costs, and (iii) administrative costs andtechnical assistance
                                                 the
support required from woreda staffto kebeledcommunitiesto implementthe public works. It
thenprepares an annual safety netplanincluding the total number ofbeneficiaries ofthe PSNP,
as well as an implementationplanand a timetable.

The WRDO sends the safety net planto WFSTF for reviewandtransmissionto Woreda Council,
which reviews and approves the plan.

iv) TheRegional Level

The RFSCO develops and consolidates annual implementationplans for regional PSNPs inline
with proposals from woredas and line bureaus. BoARDoversees the integration o fProgram
activities into the FSP andthe regional rural development strategy. The Regional Council
reviews and approves safety net annual plans submittedby woredas through BoARD.

BudgetaryProcess

The approval o f kebele safety net plans i s dependent as well as an integral part o f the budgetary
process which starts at the federal level.




                                                   56

i) The Federal Level

MoARD prepares an annual budget completed inJune for implementation on July lSt.        Itis
established on the basis o f an estimate of the number o f chronically food insecure beneficiaries
multiplied by the average estimated transfer amount per beneficiary plus capital and
administrative costs and contingency. MoARD divides the available federal budgetbetweenthe
regions inproportion to the estimated number o f beneficiaries ineach region.

Eachregion will then, ina similar manner, establish the budget for each woreda, based on the
resources available for the year. This budgetwill cover both transfer and capital/administration
costs.

Each year, the Federal safety net budget i s updated based upon the lists preparedby the CFSTF
inSeptember/October, as well as on informationandtrendsfrom the mid-year needs assessment
(April/May).

ii) The WoredaLevel

Inthe eventthat the total number ofbeneficiaries receivedfrom the kebeles is significantly
different from the indicative woreda budget, the woreda carries out spot checks to verify the
validity and soundness o f the information, and depending on the results, adapts the budget
accordingly. The total budgetincludes a preliminary implementation plan which specifies a
timetable for the use o f each types of resources. The budgeti s submittedfor approval by WFSTF
to the Woreda Council/Cabinet, and upon approval sent through the WRDO, which forwards to
the RFSCO.

The actual budgetreceivedby the woreda duringthe course o fthe year depends on further
disbursements,which will be made based on reporting o f actual expenditures incurred.

iii) TheRegional Level

The RFSCO aggregates and consolidates the information from each woreda and establishes a
proposed regional budget. Ifthe total needs are higher than the indicative regional budget
established by the FSCB, and after verification of the budgetsthrough spot checks inthe
woredas, the region will request a budgetary adjustment from the federal level to complement
these needs. The regional budgets are approved by each Regional Council.

The actual budgetreceivedby the regions duringthe course ofthe year depends on further
disbursements, which will be made based on reporting o f actual expenditures incurred.

iv) The Federal level

After receiving the regional budgets approved by the Regional Councils, the FSCB prepares a
revisedbudgetfor each region, based on the total estimated demand for assistance plus capital
and administrative costs, adjusted by the resources actually available for the year.




                                                  57

Implementationof SafetyNet Plans

Once.the safety net plan i s approved by the Regional Council, implementation o f Program
activities can begin. Grants or food transfers are made on the basis o f the beneficiary selection
list in accordance with type o f activity (public works or director support) following
implementation or on the basis o f eligibility criteria (see Annex 4). These grants will be provided
by the woreda administrationdirectly to the selected beneficiaryhouseholds following a set o f
procedures outlined inthe P I M and its technical annexes.

i) TheRegional Level

BOARDprovides overall guidance to the RFSCO and line bureaus to ensure coordination on
planning and implementation o f the regional PSNP. The RFSCO collects and reviewsprogress
reports from woredas, line bureaus and other agencies engaged in safety net interventions, and
provides feedback to those organizations.

ii) The WoredaLevel

WoFED i s responsible for making payments to beneficiaries and to suppliers based on
instruction from the WRDO. WRDO i s responsible for the coordination implementation agencies
involved inthe PSNP. Woreda staff from the woreda sectoral offices provide technical
assistance and support to kebeles and communities to implementthe public works.

iii) TheKebele and Communi@Levels

The KSFTF and the CFSTF have no direct role inthe implementationprocess o f Program
activities (public works and direct support) other than ensuringcontinued mobilization o fthe
community beneficiaries, especially inthe public works, and, for the KSFTF, providing support
and assistance to the CFSTF to manage community support and participation.

The KSFTFandthe CSFTF have a crucial role inthe monitoring and evaluation o fthe grants
management process. The CFSTF provides the kebele DAswith information on the
implementation o f Program activities on a weekly basis. It periodically monitors the public
works to ensure that they are undertaken as prioritised. It also contributes to the annual
assessment o f the Program activities by participating inthe updating o f asset / income
information on food insecure households. At the kebele level, the DAs are responsible for
keepinga log which is recordedon a weekly basis. The information i s collected, incooperation
with the CFSTF, with agencies, groups or individuals implementingProgram activities inthe
community. The DA prepares a monthly monitoring report which includes cumulative totals for
each category o f input, activity and output as well as observed constraints and resolutions. The
report i s sent to the Kebele Council for review and validation, and forwarded to the WRDO.




                                                   58

               Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                      ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNet Project

Introduction

The financial management assessmentwas done inline with the guidelines issuedby the
Financial Management (FM) Board on June 30,2001 and revised on October 1,2003. The
objective o f the assessment was to determine whether the implementing entities have acceptable
financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (i)   the funds are used only for the
intendedpurposes inan efficient and economical way, (ii) preparation o f accurate, reliable
                                                           the
and timely periodic financial reports, and (iii)
                                               safeguard the entities' assets. The FM assessment
was done during the month o f September 2004. The team visited the Ministry o f Finance and
Economic Development (MoFED), the Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau (FSCB) at
the Ministryo f Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD), Tigray and Amhra Regional
Food Security Coordination Offices (RFSCOs) and one Woreda office o f Finance and Economic
Development (WoFED) ineach o fthe Tigray and Amhara Regions.

CountryIssues

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out jointly by the
Government, Bank and donors indicated that although considerable progress has been made in
the budgetingprocess, more needsto be done inthe areas ofbudgeting,accounting, reporting
and auditing and the CFAA report highlighted development action plan that should be
implementedinorder to improve the public financial management systems. Most o f the action
plan will be covered inthe existing financial reforms under way through the financial supports o f
donors.

According to the recently completed World Bank-IMF Assessment and Action Plan on tracking
poverty-reducing spending, Ethiopia now meets eight public expenditure management
benchmarks, compared with six in2001,and i s close to meetingtwo additional ones.
Improvements intwo areas are of special note. First, the comprehensiveness of budget
formulation and fiscal reporting has improved through the incorporation o f extra-budgetary
funds into consolidated general government fiscal reports. Second, the classification of
expenditures has beenstrengthened through the development and dissemination o f a new and
improved chart o f accounts. The Assessment and Action Plan indicates, however, that the lack o f
timely fiscal reporting is a key concern.

Currently, the Bank i s financing the Food Security Project and the Emergency Drought Recovery
Project which are managed by the FSCB. Money flows through the RFSCOs and WoFEDs. For
the two Projects, there were delays inobtaining regular reports from the regions so as to
replenish the Special Accounts on time. Obtaining reports from the lower levels is a serious
problem inthe country. As a result o fthis problem, it takes sometime to revolve the Special
Account advances.




                                                59

    RiskAnalysis

    The Program will be implementedby many agencies, which have varying levels of capacity. The
   major risk as far as financial management i s concernedis that the FSCB may not receive timely
    reports to process replenishments of the SpecialAccount and closing of the annual accounts of
    the Program. The FSCB, RFSCOs and WoFED, which are involvedinimplementingthe
    Program, will recruit additional staff to strengthentheir capacities. Inaddition, MoARD will
   prepare short and concise guidelines on recording and reporting of program transactions, and will
   provide extensive training on the guidelines.

    Summary RiskAssessment

   Program: PSNP

    Date: October 2004

                            Table 7.1: CountryFinancialRiskAssessment

                                     1 RiskAssessment
                                       H S M N RiskMitigatingMeasures
 InherentRisk
 Inadequacy of trained manpower                             Inthe short run,assignadequate staffto the
 inthe areaof accounting and                                priority areas. Inthe long run,the ongoing
 auditing                                                   Civil Service ReformProgramwill
                                                            strengthenthe accounting and auditing
                                                            profession and improve the salary scale for
                                                            civil servants.
 There is no national professional                4         This area i s covered underthe Civil Services
 association and accounting and                             Reform Program.
 auditing standards
 Program activities spread over all          4              The FSCB, RFSCOs and WoFED should
 the regions and in262 woredas                              have adequate and trained staff before
                                                            effectiveness.
I              Overall Inherent Risk 1      I 4 I      1
 ControlRisk
 1. ImplementingEntities                          4         Government has designated FSCB as an
 PSNP implementing agencies are                             overall coordinator of the Programreporting
 many and spread inall program                              to MoFED on the utilization of funds on
 woredas                                                    regular basis.
 2. Funds Flow                                4             Regular field visits by FSCB and the
 Funds flow down to the woreda                              RFSCOs, andjoint Government-Donor
 levels                                                     reviewmissions.
 3. Staffing                                  4              There i s on-going Civil Service Reform
 Inadequacy of trained manpower                             Program to strengthen skills and encourage
 and low salary scale                                       performance-basedmanagement.




                                                      60

                                      RiskAs essment
                                      H     S         N RiskMitigatingMeasures
4. AccountingPoliciesand                        4M
Procedures                                                 The guidelines to be designed will be concise
The financial management                                   and clear to accommodate the needs o f the
guidelines have not yet been                               Program.
finalized
5. InternalAudit                            4
There is a duplication o f work                            The Government has taken the initiative to
between the internal audit                                 consolidate the work o f internal audit and
department o f each implementing                           inspection.
agencies and the inspection
deDartment o f MoFED.
6. ExternalAudit                            4              Terms o freference for the audit and the
Low capacity inthe auditing                                appointment o f auditors will take place
profession                                                 immediately after effectiveness. Inaddition,
                                                           an accounting firm will visit 20 percent o f
                                                           woredas, randomly selected, each year to
                                                           assess the utilization o f funds.
7. ReportingandMonitoring                   4              A good reporting andmonitoring mechanism
Non-regular reporting from lower                           will be developed.
levels, which are not complete
and relevant.
             OverallControlRisk             4   1
   H=High, S =Substantial, M= [oderate,

   Implementingentities

   At the Federallevel, MoFEDwill be responsible for the overall financialmanagement ofthe
   program. MoFED will be responsible for the management o fthe special accounts (donors
   financing), and the pooledBirr account. FSCB will be responsible for regular disbursement,
   financial reports andthe annual audit o fthe PSNP account.

   At the regional level, the RFSCOswill beresponsible to ensure that a suitable accounting system
   covering both regional and woreda levels i s established. The regions will collect and aggregate
   all financial data and information from the woredas on the PSNP disbursements. They will also
   reviewthe effective use o f accounting procedures by the woredas andprovide technical support
   and assistance to woreda financial personnel to help them develop the neededskills and
   competences to carry out their functions. Eachregion will prepare quarterly and annual reports,
   which will be sent to the Federal level.

   At the woreda level, a suitable accounting system will be established for the disbursement o f
   funds for activities financed under the safety net plan. The records of funds utilized will be
   maintained inaccordance with sound accounting practices, which i s capable o f generating
   accurate and timely information for verification. Woreda accounting personnel will be trained
   about maintaining accurate accounts for the funds utilized. This will take place duringthe first



                                                   61

phase of PSNP implementation. Incase the woreda faces difficulties inaccounting or handling
financial records, the region will provide timely assistanceand training to help solve such
difficulties.

Strengths and Weaknesses

The country's discipline inexecuting budget and compliance with the existing government
regulations is the major strength inimplementing this Program. The FSCB and five larger
regions are using the new chart of accountsbased on modifiedcashbasis of accounting. All the
implementing agencies involved inprocessingmost of the program financial transactions are
strictly following-up the budgetary discipline and regular government reportingmechanism.
Despite all the strengths, there are some weaknesses inimplementing the Program. These are as
follows:

          Table 7.2: Strengths and Weaknesses in FMand Recommended Solutions

Significant Weaknesses                             Resolutions

Inadequacy of trained manpower infinancial         There is on-going Civil Service Reform
managementand highturnover of staff                Programto strengthenskills and encourage
                                                   performance basedmanagement.

The Program i s implementedby various              Strengthenthe monitoringcapacity at the
agencies.                                          federal and regional level and regular
                                                   supervisionby the Bank.

Auditing the Program financial statements may      Agree with the selected auditors on the
take time to complete as there are many            timetable to complete the audit well inadvance
program woredas dispersedall over the country      andthe FSCB should close the accounts
                                                   immediately after the end of the fiscal year.

Regular financial reports may not be received      Design a good systemof monitoring the flow of
on time from regions                               funds. Training on the preparation of financial
                                                   monitoring reports should be conducted on an
                                                   on-going basis and arapidresponseteam
                                                   dispatchedto assist a woreda whose reports are
                                                   not receivedby end of a quarter.




                                                62

      Flow of funds



                                     GOE




~



 Special Account              MOFED
 inUSDat NBE           Pooled Local Currency
 For each donor        at NBE/ Central Bank   <




                    n<        BoFED




                              WoFED          1

      Request   .->


      Report        >


                                             63

The movement o f resources from the Federal Government to the implementing agencies at the
woreda level i s as follows:

The MoFED opens a US$special account at the National Bank o fEthiopia for each financing
partner. Inaddition, MoFED opens a Birr account into which funds from the donor's special
accounts will be pooled and deposited. The Birr account serves as a consolidatedfund for all
donors and government. MoFED will be responsible for the day-to-day management o f the
Special Accounts and the pooled Birr account.

Although there are no formal pooling arrangements, all donors and the Government have agreed
to harmonize due diligence requirements infinancial management. The EUand IDA are
discussing the modalities o f co-financing and there i s a strong interest inmoving towards a
SWAP-like arrangement inthe future. Ifdonors decide to pool their funds with IDA, these
financing partners andthe Government will sign a memorandum o f understandingon
harmonized procedures for the release o f funds from the Special Accounts to the pooled Birr
account.

The FSCB requests MoFED to transfer funds to the FSCB based on approved PSNP annual work
plans and budgets.Each RFSCOthen transfers funds to WoFED based on approved woreda
PSNP annual work plans and budgets.

The WoFED, based on request from the woreda food security desk or the Woreda Development
Committee, effects payments to program beneficiaries, those participating inpublic works or
those who participate inactivities for direct support grants. To deliver these services to the
beneficiaries, the WoFED needs a number o f cashiers to go around from kebele to kebele.

Fundswill be deposited at regional andworeda level into a dedicated bank account for program
financing. Woredas will be encouraged to report the utilization o f funds to RFSCO on a monthly
basis, who will prepare consolidated expenditurereports and forward them to the FSCB.
Frequent submission o f reports on fund utilizationwill ensure smoother reporting and fulfil due
diligence requirements. The reporting format for the utilization o f funds will developed inthe
FMguidelines. The RFSCOswill also make copies ofregular reports and send to BoFEDs. The
consolidated expenditure reports by the FSCB will be submittedto MoFED for approval and
onward transmission to IDA.

Staffing

The staffing level at each o fthe implementing agencies varies innumber and quality. For
example, the accounts unit at MoFED has 29 staff, out o f which seven are degree holders and the
others have diplomas from various colleges. The Tigray RFSCO has eight finance staff (four
degree holders and four diploma holders). The Amhara RFSCO has nine staff (three degree
holders and six diploma holders) serving ina pool.

The Staffing level varies from woreda to woreda. The WoFEDs serve all the sector offices inthe
woreda and inmost cases they have limited number o f staff. Inaddition, WoFEDs manage other
donor-financed projects.



                                                 64

Ingeneral, MoFED, the FSCB, the RFSCOs andthe WoFEDs have inadequate finance staffto
handle boththe government and donor financial transactions. The Government needs to develop
an action planto buildthe capacity o fthe implementing agencies interms o f increasingthe
numbero f staff andthe quality as well. The CFAA confirmed lack oftrained staff at all levels.

Budgetingand planning

According to the Government's chart o f accounts, the PSNP will be proclaimed annually as a
Program under MoARD, which i s designated as apublic body. Each region should prepare
consolidated PSNP work plans and budgets for each budget year and submit them to the FSCB.
Based on the approved annual budget, the FSCB will transfer money to the RFSCOs, which in
turnwill transfer money to woredas basedonthe approved budget.Finally, woredas will
disbursemoney to beneficiaries based on the approval o fthe WDC.

AccountingPoliciesand Procedures

Starting from July 2002, the Government has introduced a double entry modifiedcash basis o f
accounting. The new accounting reform has been introduced at the Federal level and infive
regions, namely, Amhara, Oromiya, Addis Ababa, Tigray and SNNPR. These regions and
Federal line ministriesare using a computerizedBudget Disbursementand Accounting System
(BDA) to some extent.The other regions are usinga manual systemof accounting based on
single entry accounting system.

The main elements o f the accountingreform are the adoption o f (i)revised and comprehensive
                                                                     a
chart o f accounts consistent with the reformed budget classification, (ii)a system o f ledgers
accommodating all types o f accounts (including transfers, assets, liabilities and fund balance in
addition to revenues and expenditures), (iii) entry book-keeping (self-balancing set o f
                                               double
accounts), (iv) a system o f control o f budgetary commitments (recording commitments as well as
actual payments), (v) modified cash basis transaction accounting, and (vi) revisedmonthly report
formats to accommodate double-entry book-keeping and commitment control and permit better
cash control.

The computerized BDA systemenables public bodies to produce financial reports much more
easily. Inthe meantime, accounting and financial reporting are performed manually inmost
jurisdictions. Massive capacity building would be required inorder to accelerate the rollout o f
the BDA system, this would need to include support to clearing accounts backlog, equipment and
customization o f software, training o f staff etc.).

As it stands now, the new chart of accounts is capable ofrecordingthe financial transactions of
the Programandthenproducing the requiredregular reports. However, the FSCB needs to
prepare short and concise guidelines on how to code transactions and report the results because
(1) all o fthe regions are not usingthe same chart o f accounts and accounting system, (2) the
chart o f accounts do not include account numbersfor Program activities, but this will be
developed inthe financial manual guidelines, and (3), the specific reporting formats for the
Program needto be clearly mentioned.



                                                    65

All the source documents will be kept at the RFSCOs and Woreda Finance Offices, i.e. where
the transactions took place. The FSCB will develop the reporting formats before effectiveness of
the Program.

Internal Audit

The MoFED has an inspection department performing post audit activities on assessingwhether
the budgetutilization i s inline with the intendedpurposes. The staff o f the inspectiondepartment
are not adequate enough to conduct audits for all line ministries. The department does the audit
on a sample basis by assessingthe risks in sector ministries. Each o fthe implementing agencies
have an internal audit department, which performs post audit activities on all the financial
transactions o f the agencies. The staffing level o f the internal audit section at each o f the
implementingagencies vary. The recent CFAA report for Ethiopia recommendedthat the
government should consolidate the organizational structure, redefine the work and duties o f the
internal audit functions to better address the needs o f the government. The Expenditure
Management and Control Sub-program o f the Civil Services Reform Program i s currently
working inimproving the internal audit function; for example, recently MoFED issued an
internal audit manual and conducted a training on the use o f manual for internal auditors.

External Audit

According to the Ethiopian Constitution, the Office o f Federal Auditor General i s responsible for
carrying out the audit o f all the financial transactions o f the Federal Government and subsidiesto
the regions. Each o f the regions have regional Auditor General responsible for auditing financial
transactions inthe region. The Office o f Federal Auditor General usually delegates its
responsibility mostly to the Audit Services Corporations, the government-owned audit firm, and
insome casesto private audit firms to carry out the audit..

According to the new audit policy o f IDA, the FSCB will prepare consolidated program
accounts, which include all the sources from donors and the government and related program
expenditures, and the auditors will express a single opinion on the consolidatedprogram
accounts. Considering the nature o f the Program, the audit reports should be submittedto IDA
ninemonths after the end ofeach fiscal year, which ends on July 7 of each year.

An independentevaluation ofthe performance of the PSNP will be carried out based on the
advice o f the Federal Food Security Steering Committee at periodic intervals. The evaluation
reports will be submittedto the Government o f Ethiopia and to the Financing partners for review
and comments.

Reporting and Monitoring

The RFSCOs and WoFEDs are responsible for reporting the uses o f funds transferred to them.
The FSCB requires monthly reports from all entities participating inthe implementation o f the
Program, but from the practical point o f view, quarterly reports are highly recommended. The
FSCB, incollaboration with MoFED, as mentioned above, will develop short guidelines on



                                                   66

reporting. It will be the responsibility of the FSCB to consolidate quarterly and annual reports
and submitthe same to MoFED. The FSCB will also be responsible for submitting consolidated
annual accounts for external auditors and working with the external auditors.

The Bank requires quarterlyFinancialMonitoring Reports (FMRs) to be submitted45 days after
the end o feach quarter. These include financial, procurementand physical reports. Considering
the nature ofthe Program, the FSCB will send IDAFMRson a semi-annual basis, to be received
45 days after the end of each six months.

Action Plan

      Table 7.3: Action Planfor StrengtheningFinancialManagementand Reporting

                                                                             Responsible

   -     Action to be taken                     Expected completion date     body
    1    Preparationo f a short financial
         management guideline on                                             Joint FSCB and
         recording and reporting o fthe         Before effectiveness         MOFED
         Program financial transactions.
   2     Organize a launchworkshop for
         finance staff at all levels to         Before release o f money to  FSCB and
         familiarize them with the flow o f regions                          donors
         funds. recording and rePortina
         Submission o f an action plan by
         the government on strengthening
         the public financial management        Before effectiveness         FSCB and
         o f the implementing agencies at                                    MOFED
         all levels following the
         recommendations o f the follow-
         up financial management
         capacity assessment.
    4     Opening o f bank accounts at the
         national and regional levels           Before effectiveness         FSCBIMOFED

Supervisionplan

This Programis beingimplementedin262 woredas across the country. It is a highly
decentralized program of US$170 million a year. There will bejoint Government-Donor review
and supervision missions twice a year. Thejoint review missions will be undertaken around
March and September o f each year. Ineach supervision mission, regions will be visited to see if
the funds are beingused for the intendedpurposes.




                                                  67

Allocationof grant and credit proceeds

                         Table 7.4: Allocation of Grant and Credit proceeds

ExpenditureCategory           Credit Amount       Grant Amount Financingpercentage
                              (US$ million)       (US$ million)
Goods                                                    0.3         100% of foreign expendituresand

Consultant Services, audits  I                           1.o        I100% of foreign expendituresand
andtraining                                                          85% of local expenditures
SafetyNet Grants                     12.3               52.4         100% of the amount disbursed
Operating costs                 Governmentwill                       90%
                                 cover the costs
Unallocated                           2.0                2.0
Total                                14.3               55.7

DisbursementArrangements

The closing date of the proposed credit will be approximately June 30,2006. The proposed IDA
credit would be disbursedagainst the categories shown inTable 7.4. There are two ways to
disbursefunds from the Bank. The first one is the traditional disbursement method, which uses
Special Account, Statement o f Expenditure procedures and direct payment procedures. The
second one i s the report-based method, inwhich regular FMRsplus additional statements will be
the basis for disbursement.

The capacities at all levels seems very low interms o f producing regular financial and other
reports so as to use the report-based disbursementmethod from the start o f the Program. It i s
agreed with the Government that disbursement from IDA will follow a traditional disbursement
method at the start o f the Program. Ifthe Borrower i s interested infollowing the second method,
it is possible to switchto areport-method o fdisbursementafter the Bank has made a full
assessment.

For the purposes o f disbursementsheplenishmentsthe following has been agreed.

Disbursementand replenishmentprocedures:


a) Annual woreda work plans and budgets will be prepared.


b) Disbursement will be made from the Special Account to the Federallevel, from Federal to the
regions and from the regions to the woredas based on the annual woreda work plans and budgets.


c) For disbursementand replenishment purposes, IDA will accept consolidated reports o f signed
woreda confirmation that they have received the program funds. Once the regions receive
confirmation o f receipt o f funds from woredas, the RFSCO will consolidate receipts from the
woredas and submit a request for replenishment to the FSCB, for onward transmission to IDA
for replenishment.




                                                  68

d) A firm o f accountants will be employedby Government for the duration o fthe Program using
proceeds under the Project to review the financial management systemo f woredas to ensure that
the grants have beentransferred to eligible beneficiaries o fthe Program.


e) As part o f the M&E system, woredas will report on program fund utilization to the regions on
a monthly basis, andthe regions to the Federal level on a quarterly basis usingreports the format
and content o f which will be agreed upon by IDA. Regions shall not transfer money unless they
receive utilization reports at least withinthe last three months for previous advances.


f) The terms o f reference o f the accounting firm will be agreed upon by the Government and the
Association as a condition for disbursemento f the grants under Component 1o f the Project.

These disbursementarrangements are authorized by IDA on an exceptional basis giventhe
requirements imposedby the needto avoid disruption inthe flow o f funds to extremely
vulnerable beneficiaries and the delays inavailability o f sufficient funds from the other financing
partners for the program.

The recognition o f disbursement on confirmation from woredas o freceipt o f program funds
transferred from the regions i s made only for replenishment purposes. Reporting and auditing
requirements specified inthe P I M and the PAD are also applicable. Inparticular, the FMRs and
audit reports on the annual accounts o f the Program must be submittedwithin the required time.
Woredas will submit regular reports to the regions, who inturn submitthem to the FSCB.

To ensure accountability at the woreda level, the accounting firm will visit a random sample o f
woredas to reviewwhether the households receive the grants and the money was spent on the
intendedactivities. The firm will visit at least 20 percent o fthe participating woredas per year,
and report its findings to the FSCB and IDA.However, every woreda will have to be visited at
least once duringthe duration o f the program. Inaddition, should the accounting firm report
improprieties, the usual Bank remedies will apply. The Government will investigate and apply
the existing law. The terms ofreference for the firmwill be agreed uponbetweenthe
Government and the Association.

Use of Statementof Expenditures(SOEs)

Disbursements made on the basis o f SOEs will be as follows: (a) goods costing less than
US$200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services o f consulting firms under contracts costing less
than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract; (c) services o f individual consultants costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) safety net grants, all under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. The Borrower will retain all the
supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates. The
supporting documents will be made available to IDA during program supervision and will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements for
expendituresabove these thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation
relating to those expenditures. Duringthe program launch workshop, there will be a session on
proper preparation o f withdrawal applications, including the preparation and submission o f
requiredsupporting documents.


                                                  69

Itwill be the responsibility ofthe FSCB to prepare regular withdrawal applications and send
them to MoFED for approval and onward transmission to IDA.The FSCB will sendrequests for
replenishment based on SOEs. The FSCB will obtain SOEs from each o f the WSCOs (i.e.,
consolidatedreports o fthe confirmed receipt o f funds by woredas) on a regular basis and prepare
withdrawal applications. Onreceipt o f the withdrawal applications from the FSCB, MoFED will
send an Application for Withdrawal to IDA/donors for the replenishment o f the US$special
account. The Special Accounts inforeign currency are replenished by an amount equivalent to
the total o f SOEs that have been deemedeligible.

SpecialAccount

To facilitate disbursements against eligible expendituresunder the Credit and the Grant, MoFED
will establish a Special Account inthe National Bank o fEthiopia. Uponeffectiveness, IDA will
deposit an initial deposit o f US$20 million into the Special Account. MoFED will submit
replenishment applications at least once a month.

Counterpartfunds

The Government o f Ethiopiawill open a local currency account ina commercial bank acceptable
to IDA andwill deposit Birr 500,000 for the first Program year and subsequent deposits at the
beginning o f each Program year based on the annual budget o f the Program.




                                                  70

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                       Ethiopia: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNet Project


Introduction

1.      Public procurement inEthiopia i s regulated by (a) the Financial ProclamationNo.
57/1996 which constitutes the Procurement Law, (b) the Financial Regulations No. 17/1997
issued by the Council o f Ministers and (c) the Ministry o f Finance Directives procurement and
contracts, issued in 1997 and revisedin 1999, at the federal level. The Bank carried out two
Country Procurement Assessment Reviews (CPARs) in 1998 and 2002 jointly with the
Government. The reviews included detailed diagnosis o f the current procurement system, its
strengths, weaknesses and development o f an Action Planto address the weaknesses. The main
weakness identified were (i) o f an oversight body for policy andmonitoring; (ii)
                              lack                                                      weak
procurement procedures, (iii)  lack o f a legal and regulatory framework; and (iv) lack o f adequate
procurement capacity.

2.      The mainrecommendations ofthe CPAR include: (i)          enactment o f a procurement law;
(ii)establishment o f a regulatory body; (iii) development o f procurement directives; (iv)
preparationo f standard biddingdocuments, manuals and guidelines; and (v) implementation o f a
comprehensive capacity building(including training) strategy. The Government has accepted the
recommendations o f the CPAR and has established a taskforce to leadthe procurement reform
process. A procurement code has beendrafted and the new draft code which provides for the
establishment o f an independentRegulatory body has been approved by the Council o f Ministers
and i s expected to be submitted to Parliament inOctober 2004 for approval. The Government has
signed a contract for the development o f new standard biddingdocuments for the procurement o f
goods, works and services, to be used under the new procurement code. The National Bidding
documents, when developed, can be used for national competition. Inaddition, the Government
has fully decentralized procurement functions to civil service institutions at the federal level
starting from July 2004. Untilthe code i s enacted and the standardbiddingdocuments
completed, Bank financed projects will continue to use Banks Biddingdocuments with
appropriate modifications.

Use of Bank Guidelines

3.      Contracts for goods and consulting services to be financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with the WorldBank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
                  I'
by WorldBank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and theprovisions stipulated in the Legal
Agreement.

4.      The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), and with appropriate amendments, for all National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
for goods. For NCB, the Bank's standard biddingdocuments will be replaced once the
Government's standard biddingdocuments are inplace. The Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals would be used for all consulting assignments. Less competitive biddingand selection
procedures should not be used as an expedient to by-pass more competitive methods. Fractioning


                                                  71

o f large procurements into smaller ones should not be done to allow use o f less competitive
methods. Packaging o f procurements will be done ina manner that ensures a balance between
economy and efficiency. The detailed procedures to be followed will be described inthe
procurement guidance note o fthe PIM. Domestic preference will be allowed for ICB contracts,
provided that there are qualified domestic manufacturers/suppliers and contractors to benefit
from domestic preference for items to be procuredunder the project.

Advertising

5.       A GeneralProcurement Notice for ICBwill bepublishedinthe UNDevelopment
Business as provided under the Guidelines. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required
for contracts to be procured under ICB and N C B procedures and for consultant contracts with an
estimated cost o f US$lOO,OOO or more to obtain Expressions O f Interest (EOI) prior to the
preparation o f the shortlist. SPNs will (as a minimum) be publishedina newspaper o f wide
national circulation. Inaddition, consultant contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more will
be advertised inDevelopment Business. Sufficient time would be allowed (not less than 30 days
for N C B and EOI) to allow candidates adequate time to obtain documents and respond
appropriately. The exact procedures to be followed for other methods o f procurement, i.e.
selective tendering inlieu o fN C B or ICB, shopping and direct contracting will be described in
the procurement guidance note to the PIM.

Scope of Procurement

6.       PublicWorks: Public works, comprising a broad spectrum o f subprojects to be
undertaken at the kebele level, with direct participation o fthe beneficiaries will form the major
part o f the PSNP. The selection o f works at the community level will be drivenby the local
planning process. They will include small scale, labor intensive interventions such as hillside
terracing, land reclamation, improvement of roads or bridges, improved access to water, or repair
of health facilities. Inthe case o f pastoralist areas, it i s to be expected that projects may include
development o f water points, rehabilitating pasture lands, building access roads, building market
sites, agro forestry, or initiatives related to livestock. These works will be carried out under direct
supervision o f the woreda technical teams as described inthe PIM. Any raw materials for these
public works will be procured by the woreda technical teams following NCB, selective bidding,
shopping or direct contracting procedures, as the case may be.

7.       Goods: Inorder to perform works at community level, various tools and equipmentwill
be required.A list o fthese items(estimated cost US$4,295,000) required for the start-upo fthe
public works was preparedas well as a procurement plan for these items to be procured and
financed by other donors. These items will be available to ensure timely start-up o f the Program.

Ingeneral, to the extentpossible andpracticable, goods will be combinedinto packages and any
packages estimated to cost more than US$200,000 will be procured by ICB. ICB procedures
will: a) follow the Bank's ICB guidelines; (b) include international advertising; (c) allow use o f
at least three international currencies; and (d) be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive and
qualified bidder. Packages less than US$200,000 will be procured usingNCB. N C B procedures
will: (a) incorporate an explicit statement to bidderso fthe evaluation and award criteria; (b)



                                                     72

include national advertising with public bid opening; (c) be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive and qualified bidder and (d) would not preclude foreign bidders from participation in
NCB. For packages less than US$50,000, procurement can be done following shopping
procedures. Under shopping procedures, (a) invitation for quotations will be issued inwriting to
at least three reputable suppliers, and must include specifications, (b) quotations must be in
writing andmust bereturnedandopened at the same time for evaluation, and (c) the contract
mustbe awarded to the bidderwho offers the best price for the requireditems. Alternatively
such goods may also be procured from UNAgencies (Inter-Agency Procurement Services
Office) provided each individual contract does not exceed US$100,000.

8. Procurement o f Food: The Food Security Coordination Bureauwill delegate the
procurement o f food to the DPPC on its behalf. The food procurement procedures may follow
commercial practices for purchasing food locally and internationally. The detailed procedures to
be followed are described inthe procurement guidance note o f the PIM. The PSNP will feature
distribution o f both food and grants to targeted beneficiaries. However, since the Program i s
beingco-financed by various partners, including a number o f large food donors, it is highly
unlikelythat Bank financing will beusedto purchase food. Inany event, the financing of food
underthis APL isjustifiable for the following reasons:

(a) The PSNP i s a key component o f the Government's FSP whose long-term objective is to
    eliminate food insecurity inEthiopia. The PSNP is designed to protect and create productive
    assets to sustain the livelihoods o f the food insecure households, as the FSP interventions
    mature. The project aims to achieve this objective through provision o f grants. Grants will
    be provided to food insecure households; as a wage payment for those households that have
    labor and can participate inpublic works, and as direct support for those households who are
    labor poor and have no other source o f support. While inmany cases these transfers can be
    undertakenwith grants, insome woredas, grants will not allow households to meet their
    needs, as the lack o f local markets will not allow households to exchange grants for food. In
    these cases, ifthe protective nature o f the safety net i s to function, it i s essential that
    households receive their grants inkind, so that their immediate food needs can be met. A
    failure to do so would seriously undermine the objectives o fthe project.

(b) Inadditionto grants, the most feasible and cost-effective method of meeting the primary
    objective o f food security o f program beneficiaries i s food. Ethiopia has a long history o f
    receiving food aid and surprisinglyeffective channels for food aid distribution across the
    program coverage areas. This will allow any food purchasedto be efficiently and quickly
    distributedto those areas that most need it. While inthe long-run, the possibility o f
    developing local markets to allow grants to be used inall areas i s being considered, the
    feasibility o f this will take some time to evaluate, and implementation will also have to be
    gradual to avoid causing excessive inflation or risking the possibility that markets do not
    respond as expected and people's ability to meet their consumption shortfall i s jeopardized.
    Inthe meantime, useoffood as transfer is considered the most feasible and cost-effective
    alternative.

(c) The program beneficiaries are effectively targeted; they live in specific woredas known to be
    food insecure. Within woredas, household identification i s undertaken following strict



                                                   73

    administrative and community relatedcriteria, and the identifiedbeneficiary list i s posted ina
    public place for scrutiny. Because the degree o f food insecurity i s so widespread inEthiopia,
    particularly withinthe specific woredas that this program i s targeting, the possibility for
    errors o f inclusion, as has beenknownto happen inprograms o fthis sort inother countries,
    i s not perceivedto be a major risk. Further careful training for community members who will
    undertake the beneficiary targeting exercise will ensure that only those who are most needy
    are selected for the program.

(d) There is a monitoring process inplaceto minimize distribution o f food to populations outside
    the target group. The M&E systemincludes a tracking o f the resource flows to the intended
    beneficiaries. M&E forms a key component o fthe Bank's support to the Government
    Program and i s seen as critical ina number o f areas to ensure successful program
    implementation. A key element o f the MIS system i s the beneficiary database that will allow
    regular evaluations o f the list to ensure that only households who are confirmed food
    insecure are included inthe program. The MIS will allow rapid evaluation o f the targeting
    process and the incorporation o f any corrective measures should problems be identified.

9.       Consultantservices: Consultant services will beusedfor the baseline survey,
automation o f the MIS, impact assessment and training. All contracts for consultant firms
estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO will be selected on Quality and Cost Based Selection
method. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants. Services for audit and other
similar services may be procured under contracts awarded usingleast-cost selection method.
Consulting assignments costing less than US$lOO,OOO may be procured by using Selection Based
on Consultants Qualifications by comparing the qualification o f consultants who have expressed
an interest inthejob or who have been identified. Individual consultants will be selected in
accordance with Section V o f the Guidelines.

10.      Procurementprocessingarrangements:The procurementunit of MoARD will have
primary responsibility for ICB for goods and international consultant services. Regions will have
the primary responsibility for procurement via N C B for goods. Boththe Federal and regional
levels can procure national consultant services as required. Woredas will have primary
responsibility for shopping for goods. Woredas who have qualified procurement staff can also
undertake N C B for goods following the established procedures. Regions can, ifnecessary,
delegate N C B and national consultancy services to MoARD, as appropriate. Award o f contracts
will follow the established governmentprocedures regarding composition and mandates o f
tender committees.

Assessment of ProcurementCapacity

11.      A preliminary assessment ofthe procurement capacity ofthe ProcurementUnitof
MoARD was done inApril 2004. This capacity has been strengthened and found adequate. The
capacity assessment at the woreda level i s being carried out by Government and measures are
being put inplace to address any shortfalls.




                                                    74

  12.      Training on shopping and community-based procurement procedures inaccordance with
 the PIMwill be providedto relevant keyworeda technical staffbeforethe start ofthe program
 implementation and on a continuous basis as needed. Training on procurement principles and
 procedures focusing on ICB, N C B and selection o f consultants will be provided to key Federal
 and regional procurement staff before the start o f the program.

 The overall project riskfor procurement is high at woreda level but average at Federal level.

 ProcurementPlan

  13.      The Ministry has prepared a Procurement Plan for goods and consultant services to be
 procured within the first 18 months in addition to those needed for the startup o f the program.
 This plan will be available in the Project's database and in the Bank's external website. The
 Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the Project Team annually or as required to
 reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.
 A more detailed procurementplan is not available at this stage since the largest part o fthe PSNP
 i s the public work program and sub-projects, which are demand-driven. The Government will
 develop a procurement plan each year after the community planningprocess has identified the
 prioritized subprojects to be implemented.

 Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

  14.      Dueto the highrisk at the woreda level, supervisionmissionsfor the post review of
 procurement actions will be done quarterly, for the first two years and semi-annually thereafter.

 Detailsof the ProcurementArrangements InvolvingInternationalCompetition

  1. Goods,Works, andNonConsultingServices

 (a) List o f contract packages to be procured following NCB:

1      2               3          4              5       6          7             8         9

Ref.       Contract     Estimated  Procurement    P-Q     Domestic    Review      Expected  Comments
No.     (Description)     cost       Method              Preference   by Bank      Bid-
                                                          (yedno)   (Prior /Post) Opening
                                                                                   Date
1.     Computer and     115,000       NCB         Post      No          Post      Feb 2005
       printers with
       accessories for
       eight regions
       and federal
       office.
2.     Photocopiers      80,000       NCB         Post      No          Post      Feb 2005
       for eight
       regions and
       federal office.
                         195,000




                                                   75

   (b) All contracts estimated to cost above US$200,000 per contract, all direct contracting (without
   a competitive process), andthe first two contracts procuredunder NCB above US$150,000 from
   each Region, will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

   2. ConsultingServices

   (a) List o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

1     2                                        3          1         I s          h            17         I

Ref.  Description of Assignment                Estimated  Selection    Review   Expected       Comments
No.                                            cost (US$) Method       by Bank  Proposals
                                                                       (Prior/  Submission
                                                          .+           Post)
1.    Consultantto undertaketwo rounds of       60,000
      atracking survey of a small sample of
                                                                               -
      householdsincluding supplies and
      enumeratorsto collect data.
2.    Development and automationof              40,000        IC          Post     Feb 2005
      beneficiary databaseand MIS System
      at woreda level.
3.    Consultantto undertake impact             60,000        IC          Post    April 2006
      assessment at the end of APLl.
4.    Consultant for training ofworeda staff     30,000       IC          Post    April 2005
      indatabaseandMISsvstem.                                                  I
5.    Consultant for training of woreda staff    30,000       IC          Post                I           I
      on quantitative and qualitative data                                         Sep2005
      collection and analysis.
6.    Consultants to undertakestud), on the      40,000                            Sept 2005
       extent to which localprocurementof
       food can be usedto develop local
      grain markets.
7.    Consultantto undertakea study ofthe        40,000                           Nov 2005
       outcomesof usingthe system of
       deferredpayments and making
      recommendationsfor any
      modifications to the program.
8.     Consultantto undertake study on how       40,000               I            Nov 2005
      to further develop the direct support                   IC Post
       componentto increase its
       effectiveness                                                           +
       Consultantto undertake a full process     40,000                           August 2005
       evaluation.
       Consultantto undertakethe                 60.000                           April 2006
       beneficiary assessment to evaluate the               &
       effectiveness of PSNP transfers and
       linkages betweenPSNP coverage and
       other food security interventions.
       An accounting firm to undertake an      200,000                 Prior     February 2005
       audit of transfers to beneficiaries ina
       random 20 percent of woredas.
L                                              640,000




                                                         76

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals and all single source selection of consultants will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely o f
national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                 77

                               Annex 9: LinkagesandGraduation
                       ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNet Project

The GovernmentFoodSecurityProgram

The PSNP is a component o fthe Government's FSP, andis an integralpart o fthe overall
strategy to achieve food security for chronically food insecure woredas o f the country. The
Government o f Ethiopia i s committed to achieving its foodsecurity objectives within a short
period o ftime. This ambitious goal can only be achieved ifthe PSNP i s coherently linkedto
ongoing and future food security interventions inthese areas.

The framework o f the national FSP emphasizes three interrelatedpillars; food availability, access
to food, and utilization. Inorder to meet these goals, the Government has designed a series o f
complementary interventions. The Program, administered and coordinated at Federal level by the
FSCB under the MoARD, i s inthe form o f a federal purpose-specific grant, supplieddirectly to
regions to be spent on the regionalresettlement program and other interventions as they deem
appropriate. The resource allocation for resettlement i s managed by the region, which disburses
to `sending' and `receiving' woredas as necessary for program execution. The remainder i s
disbursedto designated food insecure woredas for the implementation of activities inthe form of
a block grant. These include, but are not restricted to; (i)    household income generating packages
(ii) harvesting;(iii)
    water                  irrigation; and (iv) feeder roads. The PSNP will comprise a third major
component o f the program, as illustrated below.




                                    Federal Food Security Program
                                             Goal: Graduation
                                  Instrument:FederalBudgetLine


                                   Regional Food Security Program
                                             Goal: Graduation
                                Instrument:BlockGrantto Woredas


      ~



       Resettlement                 Other FSP Interventions and              Productive Safety Net
         Goal: Access to             broader rural development                      Program
           new land&                          investments                  Goal:Reduce
            sustainable          (includes water harvesting,               household vulnerability
          livelihoods in         packages, support under IDA Food          &buildcommunity
        resettlement areas       Security Project, extension,               assets
       Instrument: Block         fertilizer packages, rural roads, etc..)  Instrument: Earmarked
       grants to sending         Goal: Buildinghousehold assets             line item within Food
       and receiving             Instrument:Block grants and                Security Budget line
       woredas                   specific donor financed projects




                                                     78

A numberof donors support the Government FSP. These include the Food Security Project
(financed by IDA and other bilateral donors), the Emergency Drought Recovery Project,
generalised budgetary support to the FSP by the European Commission, and specific projects
financed by DCI, GTZ, Italian Cooperation and others. Inaddition, there i s support to food
insecure woredas inpastoral areas, financed by IDA, USAID, GTZ, and the European
Commission (planned).

IDA investmentsinthe area of food security

The Food Security Project financed by IDA/CIDA/Italian Cooperation i s a specializedproject
inside the Federal Food Security Program. The Project's main focus i s on creating private,
household assets, using a Community DrivenDevelopment (CDD) model. This contrasts with
the PSNP, which focuses onthe creationof community assets. The Food Security Project aims to
help food insecure households graduate out o f food insecurity, through financing income-
generating activities on a revolving fund basis, and capacity building for micro-enterprise
development.

The Emergency Drought Recovery Project was a rapidresponse by IDAto the 2002 emergency
inEthiopia. Its objectives are to fillthe foreign exchange gap created bythe 2002 collapse in
coffee prices, and rehabilitatethe worst affected communities by enabling them to restore
community assets on a grants-for-work basis. The community rehabilitation component provided
early lessons which have been fed into the design o fthe PSNP, and will eventually supplement
program resources inthese key woredas.

The PSNP requires a different approach inpastoral areas, since sources o fvulnerability and food
insecurity inpastoral areas are so different from highland areas. The Pastoral Community
Development Project, beingimplemented by the Ministryo f Federal Affairs, i s a CDD operation
which seeks to buildhouseholdand community assets inpastoral and agro-pastoral areas, and
strengthencommunity early warning and response mechanisms. The Program will provide a
mechanism for further strengthening the community disaster response mechanism. However, the
linkages between asset creation functions o f the Pastoral Community Development Project and
the Program inpastoral areas will need to be clarified before program implementation begins.

Graduation and linkageswithin the FSP

Itis envisagedthat eachhouseholdthat benefits fromthe Programwill also be entitledto
assistance under other parts o fthe food security program. The PSNP will meet the basic
consumption needs o fparticipating households, while also contributing to the economic and
social development o fthe community as a whole. Other interventions, such as the Food Security
Project, will focus on directly assisting the food insecure households to increase their incomes in
sustainable ways by buildingprivate household assets and allowing individuals to become more
productive actors inthe economy. Thus, the two interventions are mutually reinforcing; the
safety net provides the `breathing space' for households to engage inmore productive activities,
while also reducinghouseholdvulnerability to future shocks; the other investments provide the
startupcapital for a householdto better manage moisture, grow more productive crops, re-stock




                                                  79

herds, etc. The combination o f interventionsi s critical to eventually enabling households to
graduate out o f food insecurity.

Graduation occurs when the household has demonstrated that they have attained a necessary
level of income and assets to be food secure and be able to handleperiodic risks and shocks,
sustained over a period o f time. Once graduated, the household will no longer be eligible for any
assistance under the FSP. It is expected that a household will exit from support under the
Program before graduating from the FSP as a whole. Exit from the FSP occurs when the
household has demonstrated ability to meet 100 percent o f food needs from own resources. They
can continue to receive householdasset-creating support under the FSP (or indeed, participate in
the resettlement program) once exited from the Program. However, re-entry into support under
the PSNP is also possible, ifthere is a crisis.

Decisions on exit/entry from the PSNP will be made by the community, inconjunction with the
woreda. Each year, there will be an assessmentby the Community Food Security Task Force to
verify whether a household should remain inthe Program on the basis o f its food security
situation. Inany given year the needs o f a household as well as its eligibility for public works or
direct support will be affectedby births and deaths as well as aging o f individuals. This will
require adjustments in eligibility for both components. These decisions will be discussed
thoroughly at community level, providing scope for an appeal mechanism, before final decisions
are made. Inaddition, the community will use the annual assessment to ascertain progress
towards the overall food security goal andthe woreda will prepare a report on trends in
community level food insecurity to be included as an element o f monitoring and evaluation.

Other linkages between the PSNP and Food Security Interventions

The PSNP will not support activities onhousehold land. There are two exceptions to this; a) land
owned by female-headed households with no labor and any other reliable source o f support, b)
household landthat i s part o f critical watershed management. As stated above, other
interventions under the FSP will support activities to create household assets such as single
household water harvesting structures, extension packages, rural income generation, etc. This
will allow householdlevel investmentsto be coordinated with community level investments,
across programs, inorder to promote food security.

The FSP also includes a Resettlement Program. When a food insecure householdhead chooses to
participate inresettlement, remaining members o f the householdresiding inthe chronically food
insecure woredas will continue to be assisted through the PSNP. Woredas that receive resettlers
underthe resettlement program will not be eligible to participate inthe PSNP, unless the woreda
i s classified as food insecure and already participating inthe program.

A numberof investmentsinthe area o f childnutrition will have important linkages with the
PSNP. The Food Security Project has a Community-Based Child Growth Promotion component,
the success ofwhich will, inlargepart, depend on the targeting anduse o f instruments under the
Program. Also, the Ministry o f Health, inconjunction with UNICEF and WFP, are implementing
an Enhanced Outreach program, which identifies and provides basic vaccination and healthcare




                                                  80

services, as well as supplementary feeding for severely malnourished children inthe community
on a regularized basis.

To achieve maximum impact, the Woreda Food Security Task Forces will integrate PSNP
support with other food security interventions and broader woreda development activities.
Integrationwill be maximized betweenprograms inseveral areas: (i)        inthe kebele/woreda
development planningprocess, an integrated approach leveraging all available investmentsand
activities, (ii)
               inthe development ofintegratedtraining programs, (iii) definingand applying
                                                                          in
appropriate and consistent targeting methodologies, and (iv) inthe use o f a single monitoring and
evaluation system for all food security interventions.

Opportunities to improve synergies betweenprograms will progressively grow over time.
Mechanisms such as ongoing supervision activities and project reviewswill offer important
opportunities for further coordination betweenfood security interventions.


WatershedDevelopmentSub-projectUnderthe IntegratedDevelopmentof EasternNile
(IDEN) program

The Nile BasinInitiative(NBI): Underthis initiative, the Nile riparianshave agreed on a
broad-based basin-wide program (the Shared Vision Program) o f collaborative action, exchange
o f experience, and capacity building and inparallel, the preparation o f sub-basin action
programs geared towards physical investments under the Nile Equatorial Lakes (NELSAP) and
EasternNile Subsidiary Action Programs (ENSAP).

EasternNile SubsidiaryActionPrograms(ENSAP):ENSAP currently includes the countries
o fEgypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan. The goal o fthe Eastern Nile cooperation is to develop the water
resources o f the Eastern Nile Basin ina sustainable and equitable way to ensure prosperity,
security, and peace for all its peoples. The first project o f the ENSAP i s the Integrated
Development o f the Eastern Nile (IDEN). The initial set o f seven proposed sub-projects within
the IDENincludes a Watershed Management Sub-project.

Two ParallelTrackApproach : Recognizing the need to achieve results on the ground the Nile
riparians have agreed to follow a two track approach for actions. This includes (i)    a Fast Track
comprising a selection o f a small, but strategic sub-set o f already identified sectoral projects for
accelerated preparation and appraisal through to implementation launch within the next 24
months with the purpose to show results on the ground and tangible benefits from cooperation;
and (ii) a Multipurpose Track that will launchthe preparation o f a multi-country, multi-purpose
program o f investment. The Fast Track will ensure the implementation, as quickly as possible, o f
a few tangible investment projects that will demonstrate the benefits o f cooperation. Watershed
Management sub-project i s one o f he four projects identified for fast track operations, as it will
bringdirect benefitsto poor people.

WatershedManagementProject: The development objective ofthe EasternNile Watershed
Management sub-project i s to improve standards o f living o f the population living within
selected watersheds inthe EasternNile region, decrease population pressures, and increase land
productivity so that sustainable livelihoods and land use practices can be secured for the target



                                                  81

populations. The immediate objective o f the Eastern Nile Watershed Management sub-project i s
to establish a sustainable framework for the management o f selected watersheds on the Tekeze,
Atbara, Mereb, Abbay/Blue Nile and Bar0Akobo/Sobat rivers (Ethiopia and Sudan) inorder to
improve the living conditions o fthe people, enhance agricultural productivity, protect the
environment, reduce sedimenttransport and siltation o f infrastructure, and prepare for
sustainable development oriented investments.

The ExpectedSub-projectComponents will include: (A) WatershedManagement
InvestmentProgramwhichwill focus on measures to address integrated soil and water
conservation efforts. This could include activities to support catchment conservation through
reforestationand agro-forestry and protection o f existing forest stands; water harvesting and
improvement o f rainfed agriculture production inproject areas (including crop diversification
and sustainable farming techniques); and improved grazing practices. Based on a review o f
experience with energy related to community-based energy alternatives, an energy program
would also be developed. (B) InstitutionalStrengthening:This could include capacity building
and institutional strengthening o f agricultural and forestry sectors at national and regional levels;
research and development incollaboration with on-going activities and collaboration with
existing institutions. This component could also address issues relatedto increased collaboration
between institutions and national agencies and local governmental and non-governmental
organizations. (C) SpecificStudies: This could include (a) Erosion and Sedimentation Study to
assess and project sedimentation reduction impacts as a result o f measures to control soil erosion
inthe project areas; and (b) Assessment of Morphological Changes in the Eastern Nile as
manifested inriver meandering, sediment deposition, river bed degradation, and bank erosion,
seriously impacting the MainNile.

Linkagesbetweenthe PSNPandthe Nile BasinInitiative(NBI):

The proposedpublic works sub-projects under the PSNP include substantial watershed
management activities. As such, there are clear opportunities to harmonize with similar
proposals under the NBI.The NBIi s a program o f action by the countries withinthe Nile basin
to use the waters o f the Nile to promote sustainable and equitable development within member
countries. Under the NBI, the proposed watershed management sub-project under Integrated
Development o fthe Eastern Nile (WS-IDEN) i s one o f four projects identified for fast-track
operations. These are projects that are small yet strategic and needto be developed quickly to
demonstrate the benefits o f cooperation. Since the WS-IDENcovers almost one-third o f the
woredas inEthiopia, many o f which are also covered by the PSNP, the need for harmonization i s
self-evident The harmonizationprocess will include: (i) interactioninterms o f information
                                                           closer
exchange betweenthe PSNP and WS-IDENunder the Ministryo f Water Resources, with the
possibility o f creating ajoint coordinationmechanisms within the Government structures; (ii)
drawing on a common design andtechnical analysis o f watersheds to improve the technical
quality o f subprojects proposed under the WS-IDENandthe PSNP; and (iii)          undertakingjoint
watershed subprojects within a woreda.




                                                  82

                           Annex 10: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                         Ethiopia: EthiopiaProductiveSafety Net Project


EconomicAnalysis

The poverty profile for Ethiopiaprovides some important quantitative dimensions to the situation
of the poor. In 1999/00,42.2 percent o fthe population lived below the national poverty line
(calculated on minimumcalorie requiremento f 2200 kcal, or 40 cents per adult per day). The
profile also provides the proportions o f persons in"extreme poverty", Le., those below the food
poverty line based on 1650 kcal. For the country as a whole, 22.5 percent o f households belong
to this category o f extremely poor households. These are households on the verge o f starvation
or destitution. For most o fthe year, these ultra-poor households have little or no cash to
purchase food from the market, nor do they have any assets to sell to smooth consumption. They
typically have very small landholdings and very few livestock - perhaps a few hens and a couple
o f goats - or none at all.

The recently completed Riskand Vulnerability Assessment (2004) estimated that about 50
percent o f the population are considered poor, an additional 27 percent move inand out o f
poverty, and 14 percent who are not poor now have a highprobability o f falling into poverty in
the futurewith a single large shock. Nearly five to sevenmillionpeople or 10percent o fthe
population are considered to be chronically food insecure, inthe sense they cannot feed
themselves throughout the year from their own incomes even in good years. Inaddition, at least
another six million people suffer from extremely low and highly variable incomes depending on
the vagaries o f the annual rains.


The above analysis, coupled with findings from other available literature, underpinsthe
following broad conclusions:

    Approximately a fifth o f households inthe country are extremelyvulnerable to serious
    shortfalls infood consumption. These households, due to extremely low and highly variable
    incomes, are unable to feed themselves even ingood years, and even inregions where the
    agricultural sector has beenregisteringpositive growth rates.

There i s also substantial seasonality associated with food deprivation. Inresponse to a question
as to how many months they could live from their own harvest, most subsistence farmers
throughout the country responded that they could live on up to seven months on average; insome
regions this period i s less than six months. Data from Catholic Relief Services indicates that in
2003, chronically food insecure households did not have sufficient food for an average o f 5.6
months. This figure varies greatly by region and rises to 10.9 months for Somali region.

    Chronic food insecurity and poverty are closely linked. Despite some improvements inrecent
    years due to increased fertilizer use, low and unevenagricultural trends, coupled with high
    population growth rates, have resulted ina long-term secular decline inper capita food
    availability (Figure 10-1).




                                                  83

                        Figure 10-1: Per Capita Food Production 1970-2000




                                ! . ~
                           00   .............  ........ . . . . . . . . . .       .................   . . . . . . . . . . .

                                                                                   . ,
                           T f l             ~I     .   .   /  ,                           , .    ( ,  . , . . ~ , )
                                                                      j    l  (  ~

                                             814 1Yib isle I%$J 1 Y t l '1384 $364 IW IYYU ' Y d l 18% 'I'd'tB 1398




0    Improvements infarm productivity could help extend the number o f months o f survival for
     some; yet the probability o f drought occurring remains very highinEthiopia, largely due to
     excessive climatic variability. Measures o f variability o f annual rainfall across Ethiopia
     between 1967 and 2000 provide evidence for this claim: for annual rainfall, variability
     ranged from a low o f 18 percent to a high o f 81percent -- among the highest inthe world.
     (RiskandVulnerability Assessment, 2004). Inaddition to the failure ofthe rains, health risks
     (including bothmalaria and HIV/AIDS) exacerbate the vulnerability o f the poor, driving
     millions into poverty traps. Thus, notwithstanding some improvements infarm productivity,
     food insecurity i s bound to remainboth widespread and chronic inEthiopia in the near-term.

These characteristics o f the country justify the needfor a well-designed Programthat aims to
reduce the vicious cycle induced by the interplay o f weather-shocks, asset depletion and poverty
traps.

Economic Benefits of the Program

Protective benefits: The PSNP has protective and productive benefits. The core elements o f
protection include reduction o f (a) extremehunger, (b) malnutrition, and (c) asset depletion and
poverty traps.

a) Extreme hunger: By receiving grants (to buy food), or food directly, the households will be
able to smooth consumption and stave off hunger duringthe lean season. Table 10-1 estimates
the direct transfer benefits that food insecure households participating inthe program will
receive. The average transfer benefits from the program are substantial, reaching US$146 per
food insecure household per annum. Because the program beneficiaries are drawn from the
bottom three deciles o f consumption distribution inprogram woredas, the transfers amount to a
gain o f 48 percent o f consumption expenditures6. It i s estimated that up to 734,286 households


  The average consumption for the three bottom consumption deciles is about US$lOO per adult equivalent (Poverty
Assessment, 2004). The household data shows that these households have, on average, 3 adults. Therefore average
total consumption is about US$300 per year. The US$146 annual transfer per household is therefore equivalent to
about 48% o f consumption.


                                                                               84

will receive these transfers eachyear, providing a total of around US$107 millionoftransfers a
year.

              Table 10-1: Direct benefits generated for participants through the PSNP
       Total number o f program beneficiaries                                                                                5,140,000
       Total number of households             *                                                                                734,286


       Number o fhouseholds participatinginpublic works                                                                        587,429
       Average number o f participation days per household per year                                                                 210
       Average value o f wages eamed per household (US$)                                                                            146
       Total number o f days o f public works generated per year                                                         123,360,000
       Value o f wage transfer through public works (US$)                                                                  85,567,630

       Number o f households benefiting from direct support                                                                    146,857
       Value of average annual transfer per household (US$)                                                                         146
       Total value o f transfers through direct support                                                                    21,391,908

       Total value o f transfers (US$)                                                                                   106,959,53 8

       1.Number ofprogram beneficiaries is basedon estimated averagenumber of recipients of food aid, between 1994-2004, in the 262
      program woredas. Actual number of benejciaries will be conjrmed through communi@targeting in thejrst year of theprogram,

       2. Estimated number of households is based on average household size of 7, equivalent size of the bottom rural decilefrom the
       HouseholdIncome, Consumption& Expenditure Survey, 1999,CSA.
       3. It is estimated that 80% of households willparticipate inpublic works; 20% in direct support.
       4. Maximumparticipation inpublic works is set at Spersondaysfor each householdmember, quota to be met by eligible
       individuals in the household.
       5. Wagerate is set at 6 birr per day.
       6. Transfers under direct support are set at 30 Birrperperson per month


b) Long-term malnutrition:This increase inincome i s also expected to lead to a reduction in
malnutrition. A recent study on Ethiopia indicates that a 1percent increase inconsumption per
adult equivalent will leadto 0.2 percentage point change inchild malnutrition -- measured as
weight-for-age score7. Globally, the elasticity of malnutrition with respect to income i s
estimated at -0.5'.        Since the Programwill provide about 48 percent increase inconsumption per
adult equivalent, this would imply a 24 percent decrease inmalnutrition among program
beneficiaries. Additionally, giventhat long-term malnutrition i s known to lead to irreversible
losses inlong term productivity9, the transfer provided i s expected to reduce the potential for
these losses among beneficiary households.

e) Asset depletion andpoverty traps: InEthiopia, there are several paths to impoverishment and
poverty traps. The most direct way i s through asset depletion, which often happens as a response
to shocks which result inhouseholds having unmet consumption needs. This would mean selling
an oxen, other livestock, farm implements, and other assets as a way to smooth consumption.



 See Christiaensen, Luc and Alderman, Harold. ChildMalnutrition in Ethiopia: Can Maternal Knowledge
Augment the Role of Income? Economic Development and Cultural Change .52(2) 287-312. 2004.
8Haddad, Lawrenceand Alderman, World Bank Economic Review, 2003.
 Copenhagen Consensus,2004


                                                                    85

Evidence o f poverty traps i s emerging, albeit slowly. Village studies inEthiopia point to a
growing level o f destitution over time" inplaces where frequent drought, population growth and
environmental degradation leadto small plots o f poor quality, and which do not sustain
livelihoods. Inthe northernhighlands o fthe Amhara region, 20 percent o f households which
were not destitute in 1992/93became so 10 years later. Furthermore, the studies notedthat the
villagers hadthe widespread feeling that (a) the proportion o f the poor had increased, and (b) the
current poor were ina more precarious situationthana decade ago. These same studies also
show that the likelihood of becoming destitutewas higher for female-headed households. Such
households who were not destitutein 1992/93 were 2.5 times more likely to become destitute by
2001/2002 than male-headed households.

A study o f rural households dispersedover several agro-ecological zones and regions found that
the damaging effects of shocks, whennot addressedadequately, are long lasting. The findings
show that households that suffered substantially during the 1984-5 drought, which resulted ina
nationwide famine, continued to experience 2 to 3 percent less annual per capita growth during
the 1990sthanthose who were not hit as hard".

Another source o f poverty trap i s to delay investmentinhuman capital by reducing consumption,
through rationing or "tightening one's belt". While this i s an important risk coping mechanism,
there are costly long runimplications interms o f the future productivity o f the individual,
household and the nation. It i s especially risky when it i s extended to children. InEthiopia,
children between 6 and 24 months, who lived incommunities where halfthe crop area was
damaged, and who didnot receive food assistance, experienced 0.9 cm less growth, inthe six
months following the harvest, than children who lived incommunities without crop damage12.

The PSNP will contribute to the reduction o f poverty traps inthree ways. One, by ensuring
transfers to chronically food insecure households, consumption shortfalls are met, risk o f
malnutrition i s reduced and the longtermpoverty-inducing consequences o f malnutrition are
avoided. Two, the consumption-smoothing effect o f transfers means that households need not
depletetheir productive assets. Inaddition, the Program will, through public works activities,
create community assets which will complement the productivity o f householdassets. Three,
the Programprotects and builds the assets o f specific target groups within the chronically food
insecure population, who are exceptionally vulnerable. Although the main focus o f the public
works activities i s to buildproductive community assets, there i s an explicit provision for the
community to assist inenhancing the productivity o f lands owned by labor-poor, female-headed
households through the public works activities.

Strictly speaking, these benefits are not new and represent the protective elements o f the
humanitarian assistance system. The main difference will be to make the past targeting
procedures more efficient, so that more poor households can benefit from the newProgram. The
newProgram is expected to achieve, at a minimum,these protective benefits o fthe previous
program.




loIDSiSave the Children-UK
l1Dercon and Krishnan, 2000
l2Yamano, Alderman, and Christiaensen, 2003


                                                  86

These benefits are non-quantifiable: for example, the Program aims to save the lives o f the
chronically food insecure-a                benefit that is difficult to quantify. Therefore, it is worth stressing
that the quantification o f the measurable direct and indirect benefitsbelow will remain an under-
estimate.

ProductiveBenefits: Inaddition, the new Program i s expected to improve the productive nature
of the safety net activities. The main avenues for this are through the leveraging o f the non-
transfer component o f the program and more efficient use o f labor. The program will generate
over 120 million person days o f employment a year, providing the opportunity for substantial
investmentinproductive community assets.

The potential o fthe programto be an important boost to the creationo f community assets is
highlighted by the proposed scale o fthe program. For an average participating woreda, program
financing will represent a 125 percent increase inresources as compared with the Woreda Block
Grantreceived from the federal government. This figure varies greatly depending onthe number
o f chronically-food insecure households ineach woreda. Insome cases, where the number o f
chronically food insecure population i s high, safety net resources can represent many multiples
of the resources currently receivedfrom the federal government.

                Table 10-2: Ratioof Woreda PSNPResourcesto WoredaBlockGrant]

                                  PSNP Grants/                 PSNP Resources: Admin & Capital/                   Total PSNP Resources/
                                  Woreda Block                           Woreda Block Grant                         Woreda Block Grant
                                       Grant
Average Ratio                         104%                                         21 Yo                                      125 Yo
Maximum Ratio                         612 %                                        122 Yo                                     734 Yo
I Basedonan indicative safe@ net budgetfor asample ofl02participating woredasfor whlch information wasavailable in Amhara, Oromin,
andSNNPR. FY 2OO2/2OO3 Block Grant budnets It should be noted that the ratio of a woreda's total safety net resources to the total resources of
the woreda will be significantly lowerfor FYO.5, due to the sizable increase in the Government'sFSP budgets at the disposal of a woreda


Environmentalbenefits. A combinationof intensive farming practices, overgrazing and
demographic pressure, have ledto substantial land degradation and growing numbers o f rural
households with inadequate landholdings. About 50 percent o f the highlands are believed to be
eroded, and 25 percent o f them severely so. This has constrained agricultural productivity and
rural income growth. It i s increasingly seen as a major cause o f vulnerability.

Seeminglyrational actions from the point o fview o f individual households have large negative
social consequences. Inthis case, time-tested household strategies to cut and burntrees either to
meet their own energy needs or to earn income as a coping mechanism, along with traditional
"tragedy o f the commons'' outcomes from overgrazing on communal land, have lead to ruinous
effects on the environment and the natural resource base for current and future generations.
Moreover, preliminary estimates suggest that the practice o f removing dung for fuel wood leads
to a nationwide loss o f phosphorous and nitrogen equivalent to that obtained from the total
amount of commercial fertilizer applied annually.

The PSNP will contribute to reducing and reversing environmental degradationthrough
comprehensive integrated watershed management plans that encompass terracing, bunding, gully
control, area closures and multi-layered agro-forestry. Evidence from ongoing projects in



                                                                        87

Ethiopia funded by WFP shows that sustained integrated investmentsfollowing this approach
can rehabilitate degraded watersheds and leadto increased agricultural productivity.

Agriculturalproductivity. The PSNP will contribute to improvedagricultural productivity.
At present, cereal yields inEthiopiaare only around 1.1to 1.2tons per hectare. There is scope
for much improvement. Inthe food insecure areas, fertilizer i s applied inonly 13 percent o f
cultivated areas. Inthe long run, environmental rehabilitation includes controlling soil erosion,
betterwater retention and improved plot quality. This will leadto improved yields. By some
estimates, stone terracing appears to increase yields substantially (by 40 to 50 percent insome
cases) and enhances yield stability. The benefits, however, are not immediate and it may take up
to four years before a substantial yield increase i s realized (Poverty Assessment 2004). Underthe
PSNP, community-based small scale irrigation sub-projects will enable vulnerable households to
supplementtheir traditional production with additional crops of grain or high-value vegetables.
Based on MoARD's alternative farm models, the Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and
Development Fundestimated that the most viable small-scale irrigation schemes, which are
those where 50 percent o f the irrigated land i s devoted to vegetables, had a median economic rate
o f return of 14 percent. Inpractice, the range o f projects chosen will determine the rate o f return.

Itis also expectedthat householdsthat receive transfers will bewilling to take more risks; adopt
higher yielding seeds, and apply more fertilizer. Subbbarao (2003) indicatesthat the risk-coping
benefits o f a public works program can be as important as the transfer benefit to poor households
who lack options or who cannot afford to insure themselves. Improvement inthe household's
ability to reduce risk leads to higher risk-taking activities; that ultimately lead to higher
productivity. Suchrisk benefits o f safety net programs-the      benefits o f reduced risks due to
consumption smoothing-are        rarely factored into the calculations o f program cost-effectiveness.

Reducedisolationandimprovedmarketintegration. The PSNP will contribute towards
reducing isolation and improve access to public services. Although distances to most services
(such as health, education, food markets, and water supply) have declined, remoteness still
defines the lives o f many Ethiopians. Distance to food markets, water, health and transport
services are all highly significant determinants o f poverty13 and improved access to infrastructure
i s a critical factor for promoting economic growth. Specific work on Ethiopia, (Dercon, 2002),
finds that access to roadinfrastructure is a highly significant variable inexplaining differing
growth experiences across villages. Through the public works activities, communities will build
rural feeder roads, construct and repair schools andhealth clinics, and improve the availability o f
drinkingwater. An overview o fpublic workfare programs invarious countries has highlighted
the potential o f public workfare programs inthis regard. Inparticular, the Maharasthra
Employment Guarantee Scheme inIndiahas contributed significantly to the growth o f irrigation
infrastructure and rural roadsI4.

Market development. The PSNP will encourage market development. Inthe short run,the
increasinguse o f grants insteado f food as a mediumo f transfer will induce increased demand for
cereals and a supply response from the surplus producers. Inthe long run, this effect, coupled
with increases inagriculturalproductivity, will leadto higher incomes and generate sizeable


l3 Ethiopia PovertyAssessment 2004
14 Subbarao, 2003, and Dev, 1994


                                                   88

 multipliereffects, especially ifthe income elasticity for locally producednon-food non-tradables
 i s large, and local supply i s elastic and labor intensive. Improved accessibility and increased
 agricultural productivity will lead to increased cereal productionwhich leads to lower prices,
 effectively increasing consumers' real incomes. There will be important direct gains through
 decreased food prices for all net cereal buyerswhich make up 60 percent o f the Ethiopian
 population.

 Fiscal sustainability of the program:

 The resource envelope projectedfor the PSNP i s about US$170 millionper year. This is
 equivalent to approximately 2.5 percent o f the GDP o f Ethiopia. From the perspective o f
 domestic public investment priorities, it i s slightly lower than the country's expenditure on
 education, but considerably higherthan public expenditure on health (Table 10-3). This i s
 therefore not a small program and questions arise as to the affordability and sustainability o f
 such a program for a country with Ethiopia's level o f income. Moreover, there are concerns
 regarding what impact the size o f the program will have on the macro-economy and inlocal
 economies among the woredas that will benefit from the program.

         Table 10-3: PublicExpenditures("/o of GDP): PSNP comparedto Social Sectors

 Sector                                                                 Public Spending as YOo f GDP
 Education(all levels)                                                                 3.8
IHealth                                                                                0.9
 PSNP                                                                                  2.5
 Note: Health and Education data represent budget allocationsfor theyear 2004/05.

 On sustainability and program size, it i s important to keep inmindthat much o f the program
 financing does not represent "new" funds. Ethiopia already receives a very large inflow o f
 resources for humanitarianpurposes on an annual, emergency basis. The PSNP will transform
 the use o fthese resources from puretransfers, whichthey were inthe past, to productive
 resources. Furthermore, ifprogram objectives are achieved, the program itself should lead to
 reduced need and scale. Inother words, the Program envisages a reduction inscale as the
 combined investment from the program resources and other food security interventions improve
 households' food security status. The nature o f this support i s that it i s vital: without such
 support there i s a risk o f humanitarian crisis. When estimating the opportunity costs o f such an
 investmentthe widespread morbidity and mortality that would result from not maintainingthis
 level o f resource investmentthrough the PSNP must be recognized.

 On the issues o f the macro-economic impact o f the program, a point o f difference betweenpast
 humanitarian assistance and the PSNP i s that the majority o f resources for the PSNP will be in
 grants, while the former was mostly inthe form o f food. Significant volumes o f food aid inthe
 past were blamed for bad incentives for agricultural producers. Itwas believed to have lowered
 food prices duringpoor harvests and ledto collapses infood prices during bumper harvests.
 Thusthe PSNP, by shifting from food to grants, will greatly reduce the negative effect o f
 humanitarian assistance on food markets and prices.




                                                       89

At the same time, the PSNPwill inject a large amount o fresources into the economy and could
potentially lead to both localized and generalized price inflation and appreciation o f the
exchange rate. There i s a possibility that the increased effective demand that will result from
transfers to poor households will increase food prices, especially duringpoor harvests. The losers
will most likely bepoor urbannet food buyers. However, net food producers are likely to gain
and ina dynamic context, the increased supply response and the possibility o f higher imports in
response to increased prices could off-set the pressure o f increasingprices.




                                                   90

                                  Annex 11: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                       ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafety Net Project

The PSNP includes a community `public works' component aimed at developing communal
infrastructure and assets inareas o f chronic food shortage. The program will provide food or
grants for labor provided by community membersinthe implementation o f the projects. The
Government's full Program i s expected to serve around 262 woredas, inwhich public works will
be conducted over a five-year period inapproximately 3,600 kebeles, involving some 21,600
communitie~.'~    The Bank's support will finance a part ofthe overall program.

The selection o fthe public works activities will be drivenby the local planning process. They
may include, for example, hillside terracing, land reclamation, improvement o f roads or bridges,
improved access to water, or repair o f health facilities. Inthe case o fpastoralist areas, it i s to be
expected that projects may include development o f water points, agroforestry, or initiatives
relatedto livestock. Giventhe nature and large number o f these public works, it i s important that
their designand implementationfollow goodpractice inorder to manage any potentially adverse
impacts. While it i s acknowledged that many o f the public works will themselves be intendedto
rehabilitate the natural resource base, it i s equally important that such projects be well-designed
and executed to ensure that undesirable impacts are avoided or mitigated.

Ethiopia's Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) proclamation, the World Bank's safeguard
policies and international standards subscribed to by the other donor partners are applicable to
the PSNP. Inkeepingwith Ethiopia's Environmental Impact Assessment proclamation, the term
`environment' inthis context covers biophysical, social and cultural heritage impacts.

Inthe case of the PSNP, where individual sub-projects arenumerous, community-based, andnot
known inadvance, it i s not realistic to execute separate project EIAs.Thus the Government has
produced a global Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the PSNP
that sets out simple procedures to be followed for the assessment and mitigation o f
environmental and social impacts. The ESMF also provides criteria for sub-proj ect selection,
checklists for preliminary project assessment (to avoid a location or project designwhich might
give rise to undesirable impacts), and a shortlist o f mitigating measures to be taken during
project implementation. For the sake o f convenience, the standard mitigating measures for
specific types o f sub-project will also be incorporated inthe technical standards manual to be
provided by the PSNP.

The project selection procedures excludes projects within or adjoining territories under
international dispute, projects requiring relocation o f residents, and dams inexcess o f 15 meters
inheight.

The procedures will ensure that participation inthe projects is entirelyvoluntary; each
community memberwill have the option to opt out o f a project, should he or she desire to make
no change intheir existing livelihood situation. Inthe event that a community member desires to
voluntarily relinquishassets, or access to assets, inthe course o f project implementation, he or


  Based on an average of 15 chronically food insecure kebeles per woreda, and 6 communities per kebele.


                                                       91

she may do so, andwill be entitledto compensation from the project. Wherever possible, such
compensation will take the form o fthe asset loss being taken into account inthe net benefits
accruing to the member. The ESMF commits the PSNP to providing guidelines for such
compensation arrangements, and for the production of medical waste management plans and
integrated pest management plans where required.

Preliminary project assessment will be conducted at woreda level, and compliance with the
recommended mitigating measures will be monitored by the concerned Development Agent
(DA).Only inexceptional cases will itbenecessaryfor aproject to bereviewedat ahigher level,
inwhich caseunderEthiopia's Environmental Management proclamation, the regional
Environmental Bureau, or equivalent office, would be the determiningauthority.

Training requiredat the various levels for implementingthe ESMFprocedures will be provided
withinthe framework o fthe PSNP awareness-creation andtraining program. Monitoringof the
implementation o f the ESMFprocedures will take place within the integratedM&E system
designedfor the Government's FSP.

The environmental management process and guidelines developed for the.PSNP have been
approved by the Environmental ProtectionAuthority o f Ethiopia.




                                                92

                         Annex 12: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                       ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafetyNet Project

                                                       Planned                     Actual
PCN review                                            0411212004                  0412112004
InitialPID to PIC                                     0412112004                  04/29/2004
InitialISDS to PIC                                    04/21/2004                  04/29/2004
Appraisal                                             09/13/2004                  0911312004
Negotiations                                          1011812004                   10125104
BoardIRVP approval                                    11I3012004
Planned date of effectiveness                         1213012004
Planned date of mid-termreview                        01I1512005
Planned closing date                                  0513012006

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project: inGovernment, MoARD, MoFED; Donor
partners include CIDA, DCI, DFIF, EU, USAID and WFP.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                                         Title                           Unit
Trina Haque                         Lead Economist, TTL                                     AFTH3
Andrew Dabalen                      Sr. Economist                                           AFTH3
Will Wiseman                        Young Professional                                      AFTH3
Maryanne Sharp                      Operations Officer                                      AFTH3
HaroldAlderman                      Lead HDEconomist                                        AFTHD
Kalanidhi Subbarao                  Consultant, Safety Net Specialist                       AFTHD
Endeshaw Tadesse                    Operations Officer                                      AFTH3
Michelle Phillips                   Rural Livelihoods Officer                               AFTS2
EshetuYimer                         Sr. Financial Management Specialist                     AFTFM
Samuel Haile Selassie               Procurement Specialist                                  AFTPC
Madhur Gautum                       Sr. Economist                                           AFTS2
DinaN.Abu-Ghaida                    Sr. Economist                                           HDNED
Ian Campbell                        Consultant, Environmentaland Social Specialist          AFTH3
Rob Geddes                          Consultant, Engineer                                    AFTH3
Jean Paul Peresson                  Consultant, Implementation Specialist                   AFTH3
EdithRuguruMwenda                   Sr. Counsel                                             LEGAF
Steve Gaginis                       Finance Officer                                         LOAG2
Nina Chee                           Environmental Specialist                                AFTS3
Southsavy V. Nakhavanit             Program Assistant                                       AFTH3
EleniAlbejo                         Team Assistant                                          AFC06


Bank funds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bank resources:          $270,O00
    2. Trust funds:              _-
     3. Total:                   $270,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval:             --
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:         US$150,000



                                                    93

                        Annex 13: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                  ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafety Net Project


1   World Bank Paperpresentedat GenevaFamine PreventionMeeting. September2003
    "Securing Consumption While Promoting Growth: The role of a productivesocial safety
    net inEthiopia"
2.  Project Concept Note April 15,2004
3.  Aide-memoire: Joint Government-Multidonor Identificationmission, January 29-
    February 13,2004
4.  Donor Comments on Draft Program Implementation Manual to H.E.Ato Addisu
    Legesse, Minister of Agriculture and RuralDevelopment, Ethiopia,July 21, 2004
5.  FieldTest Manual, Ministry of Agriculture, July 22, 2004;
6.  Kebele FieldTest Notes and Woreda FieldTest Notes;
7.  Woreda Capacity Assessment and GrainMarket Survey Questionnaires;
8.  EthiopiaPER -2003 Chapter: Food Security and Safety Net -Public spending on
    transfers to the poor
9.  Quality EnhancementReport, August 11,2004
10. Aide-memoire: Joint Government-Multidonor Appraisal mission, September 13-20,2004
11. Program ImplementationManual, Draft September 2004




                                          94

                               8
                         3
                          .EL




o o w l n o l n r - o b

                                             Annex 15: Country at a Glance

                            ETHIOPIA: EthiopiaProductiveSafety Net Project


                                                                                                                                                       8/16/04


                                                                        Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                   Saharan         LOW-
                                                         Ethlopia      Africa      income        Developmentdiamond`
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                                  67.2       688        2,495                                    Lifeexpectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             100        450         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                6.5       306        1,072                                           T


Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                                   2.4        2.4         1.9
Labor force (%)                                                 2.2        2.5         2.3       GNi                                                   Gross
                                                                                               ~


                                                                                                 per                                      -primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                            capita                                             enrollment
Poverty (Yhof populationbelownationalpovertyline)               44
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                           16         33           30     '
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                42         46           59
infantmortality(per 1,000live births)                          114        105           81
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                        47                             1       Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (?A ofpopulation)              24         58           76
illiteracy(Yhofpopulationage T5+)                               58         37           37
Gross primaryenrollment ("Aof school-agepopulation)             62         86           95              -+--Ethiopia
    Male                                                        72         92          103     I        -                       Low-income group
    Female                                                      51         80           87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1982        1992      2001          2002
                                                                                                 Economic ratios`
GDP (US$ billions)                                  5.4        10.0        6.5          6.1
Gross domesticinvestmenVGDP                        13.4         9.2      17.8         20.5                                         Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                   9.5         4.5      15.1         16.2
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                           5.6         3.0        3.1          2.5
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                           6.8         9.6      13.0         12.6                                           T

Current account balance/GDP                        -6.8         0.4       -4.0         -7.9
Interest paymentslGDP                               0.4         0.4        0.9          0.7
Total debVGDP                                      60.2        93.0      87.5        107.6
Total debt service/exports                         13.8        23.1       17.8        10.4
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                                  44.8
Present value of debttexports                                           284.6
                                                                                                I                                Indebtedness
                                      1982-92  1992-02        2001      2002       2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                          '
GDP                                       1.0       5.5         8.8        2.7          5.4                          --Ethiopia
GDP per capita                           -2.1       3.1         6.4        0.5          3.1                                       Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                                        ~

Exports of goods and services             0.0      11.3         7.0       13.1          7.4



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1982       1992      2001          2002       Growthof investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        54.4        63.8      47.1         42.3       20T


Industry                                           12.4         7.9        9.9         11.1
   Manufacturing                                    7.6         4.7
Services                                           33.2        28.3      43.0         46.5

Privateconsumption                                 79.4        86.9       80.1        78.1
Generalgovernment consumption                      15.0        10.1       16.8         19.3
                                                                                                                            --GDI           - O ' G D P
importsof goods and services                       17.4        10.7      29.8         34.2


                                                1982-92   1992.02       2001          2002       Growthof exports and imports (Oh)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                          1.4        2.4       11.5         -2.3    IbT
Industry                                           -1.8         6.0        5.0          5.8
   Manufacturing                                   -2.8         6.4        3.9          4.1
Services                                            2.1         8.3        4.7          4.6

Privateconsumption                                   1.6        3.0       14.3         -3.1
Generalgovernment COnSUmptiOn                      -1.1        16.5     .19.6          19.5
Gross domestic investment                           0.2         7.8       15.8         13.3    I                         -izxports         -+-Imports
Imports of goods and services                        1.6        7.3       -0.4         10.0


Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates.

*The diamonds showfour key indicators in the Country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamond will
    be incomplete.



                                                                      96

                                                                                                                     Ethiopia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                     1
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002       Inflation (O h )
Domesticprices
("Achange)                                                             115 -

Consumer prices                             7.3  21.o    -5.2    -7.2      10

Implicit GDP deflator                       4.2  15.8    -6.3    -7.0       5

Government finance                                                          0

(% of GDP, includes currenf grants)                                         5

Current revenue                           17.8   12.6    22.4   22.6     -10

Current budget balance                      0.8   -3.1    3.2     2.3               -'--GDP       deflator    ' O I C P I       I
Overall surplus/deficit                    -5.5   -7.6   -6.6   -11.3


TRADE
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                              Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)                 I
Total exports (fob)                        376    154    463     452
  Coffee                                   232     81     182    163
  Leather and leather products              24       0    41      66
  Manufactures                              79     38     86      67
Total imports (ci9                         848    875   1,557  1,696
  Food                                            131     110    209
  Fuel and energy                                 120    292     268
  Capital goods                                   322    487     523
                                                                                  96       97   98     99       00    01
Export price index (1995=100)               81     77     61      53
Import price index (1995=100)              107     94     115     113    I                   r@Exports            Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   76     82     53      47


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002     1
(US$ millions)                                                             Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

Exports of goods and services              512    453     979    983       Z T

imports of goods and services              946   1,074  1,936   2,073
Resource balance                          -435   -621    -957  -1,091

Net income                                   -9    -86    -51     -40
Net current transfers                        73   747     694     653

Current account balance                   -371      40   -314    -478     -5 -
Financing items (net)                      431      39    293     762
Changes in net reserves                     -60    -79     22    -285

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     277     172    337     664
Conversion rate (DEC, iocai/US$)            2.1    2.1    8.3     8.5


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002      1
(US$ millions)                                                             Composition of 2002 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      3,280  9,341  5,697   6,523
  IBRD                                       48     12      0       0
  IDA                                       302    964  2,151   2,756                          F 98G 66


Total debt service                           76    109    182     108
   IBRD                                       8      8      0       0
   IDA                                        3     13     36      17

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                           107    886    413
  Official creditors                      1,345    184    434     548
   Private creditors                         98     80    -10      -4
   Foreign direct investment                  2      0     20
   Portfolio equity                           0      0      0       0

World Bank program
   Commitments                               30    150    202     343       A- IBRD                               E - Bilateral
   Disbursements                             28    112    455     465       B .IDA         D Other multilateral
                                                                                            -                     F Private
                                                                                                                    -
   Principal repayments                       5     13     22       5                                             G - Short-term
   Net flows                                 23     99    433     460
   Interest payments                          6      8     14      12
   Net transfers                             17     92    419     447


Development Economics                                                                                                     8/16/04




                                                       97


