Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  30875 
Project Name 
Ethiopia Productive Safety Nets Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P087707 
Borrower(s) 
GOVT OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 1, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 24, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
November 30, 2004 
1. C
OUNTRY AND 
S
ECTOR 
B
ACKGROUND
 
Despite a period of good macro-economic outcomes, supported by significant economic and governance 
reforms, coupled with public investment throughout the 1990s and early 2000s, many Ethiopians remain 
poor and vulnerable. The per capita income is estimated at US$100 and roughly 50 percent of the 
population are poor.  Many more are vulnerable because a single large shock can overwhelm their self-
protection mechanisms, resulting in hunger and destitution, as has repeatedly happened, and most recently 
in 2002.  Impoverishment persists in many areas due to the cumulative effects of repeated droughts, 
deforestation, soil erosion and degradation.    
As a result, each year Ethiopia appeals for emergency food aid to meet the consumption needs of at least 
five million people who are chronically food insecure.  Although this internationally financed 
humanitarian assistance is substantial (estimated at about US$265 million a year in the past six years) and 
has saved many lives, recent evaluations, including the Public Expenditure Review 2004 (PER) and the 
Risk and Vulnerability Assessment 2004 show that this assistance did not manage to protect livelihoods, 
generate community assets, or preserve household assets to the extent that could have been expected.   
 
Poverty is widespread in both rural and urban areas, and food insecurity is one of the defining features of 
rural poverty in Ethiopia.  The magnitude of food insecurity is much greater in drought prone rural areas 
than in urban areas.  The problem of food insecurity has become worse in recent years. The average 
population in need of food aid in the past three years (2001-2004) has been higher than the historical 
average seven years prior  (1994-2000, See Figure 1).  However, these recent trends do not completely 
capture the severity of food insecurity in exceptional years such as 2003, when around 13 million people 
required emergency food aid. 
 
The major causes of food insecurity in Ethiopia include land degradation, recurrent drought, poor and 
inadequate management of risk, population pressure and subsistence agricultural practices, dominated by 
rain-fed farming, and characterized by low inputs and low outputs. 
 
The Government of Ethiopia has decided that there is an urgent need to address the basic food needs of 
food insecure households via a productive safety net system financed through multi-year, predictable 
resources, rather than through a system dominated by emergency humanitarian aid. Moreover, the 
Page  2
Government seeks to shift the financing of the program from food aid to cash. On this basis, within the 
framework of the national Food Security Program (FSP), which emphasizes the three interrelated pillars 
of food availability, access to food, and utilization, the Government has decided to develop a new 
Productive Safety Net Program.   
 
2. O
BJECTIVES
 
The Productive Safety Net Program is a key element of the Bank’s support to the implementation of the 
Government’s poverty reduction strategies outlined in the SDPRP.  The Program is a major instrument 
for achieving the Government’s clearly stated goal of reducing vulnerability and attaining food security 
for between 5-6 million chronically food insecure people by 2009.  The Productive Safety Net will reduce 
the number of Ethiopians suffering from extreme hunger, malnutrition, and poverty (MDG 1),  and restore 
and rehabilitate the environment through soil and water conservation activities (MDG 7). It will also build 
and maintain public infrastructure (e.g. rural roads) and enable small-holder farmers to take on economic 
activities with higher-risk but higher-return (e.g. adoption of higher yielding seeds requiring costly 
inputs). 
 
The development objective of Phase one of the project is to move from a relief-oriented to a 
development-oriented safety net by (i) providing predictable, multi-annual resources, (ii) replacing food 
with cash as the primary medium of the grant, and (iii) making resources available for critical capital, 
technical assistance, and administrative costs. Moreover, the project aims to significantly strengthen 
community involvement by supporting community targeting and local-level participatory planning as core 
principles of the program. Further, emphasis will be placed on relating public works activities to 
addressing some of the underlying causes of food insecurity, especially with respect to soil and water 
Figure 1: Population in Need of Food Aid, by year (1994-2004), DPPC data 
 
7,150,144
2,180,6
13,215,514
0
2000000
4000000
6000000
8000000
10000000
12000000
14000000
1994
4
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
t
en y
e
ar average 
Source: DPPC
Page  3
conservation. The proposed measures are expected to lead to significant improvements in the productivity 
of the safety net over the current humanitarian system.    
The Program will provide grants to the food insecure population in chronically food insecure woredas so 
as to prevent asset depletion at the household level and create assets at the community level.   The 
Programme will thus address immediate human needs while simultaneously (i) supporting the rural 
growth process, (ii) preventing long-term consequences of short-term consumption shortages, (iii) 
encouraging households to engage in production and investment, and (iv) promoting market development 
by increasing household purchasing power.   
 
Progress by end of phase I of the program will rely on the Government’s M&E system.  As such the 
M&E system will report targets and actual accomplishments. Progress will be measured by the following 
key results indicators.  
(a)  at least 95 percent of eligible beneficiaries are confirmed as chronically food insecure;  
(b)  at least 50 percent of eligible beneficiaries participating in public works or in direct support have 
received grants rather than food; 
(c)  at least 95 percent of disbursements to eligible beneficiaries for public works subprojects have 
been made according to identified needs; 
(d)  at least 95 percent of disbursements to eligible beneficiaries for direct support have been made 
according to identified needs; 
(e)  at least 75 percent of capital and administrative budget used by woredas; 
(f)  at least 75 percent of kebeles have developed and approved safety net plans, taking into account 
community preferences; 
(g)  at least 60 percent of public works sub-projects are assessed as technically sound; 
(h)  at least 50 percent of woredas are presenting accurate and complete financial reports; 
(i)  at least 60 percent of all participating woredas are reporting fully on physical progress; and 
(j)   a management information system that provides sufficient and timely information for use by 
management has been established and is operational. 
 
3. R
ATIONALE FOR 
B
ANK 
I
NVOLVEMENT
 
There are three reasons for Bank involvement in the PSNP.  
First,
 the Government asked for the Bank’s 
technical assistance and contribution in substantially redesigning the existing relief-oriented and food-
financed system to a more productive and mostly grant-financed system.  Moreover, the Bank has been 
involved in policy dialogue on issues related to food security during the planning process for the 
Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP) and subsequently under the policy 
umbrella of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit series (PRSC I and PRSC II in 2004); through on-
going operations such as the Food Security Project (2003), the Pastoral Community Development Project 
(2003), and the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (also 2003); and through a strong analytical work 
program such as the Safety Net chapter of the PER (2004) and the Risk and Vulnerability Assessment 
(2004).  The operation is also an important element of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as 
reflected in the recent CAS progress report (September 2004).  
Second
,
the Bank’s financial contribution 
and support of the transition of Ethiopia’s PSNP is seen as critical in leveraging other donor partner 
financing and ensuring that the Government’s policy shift remains on track. 
Third,
 the Bank is well-
placed to draw upon global experience and successful innovations in safety net design and to advise the 
Government in adapting it to the Ethiopian context.   
 
4. D
ESCRIPTION
 
Page  4
The proposed APL will finance the following two key components:  
 
Component 1: Safety Net Activities 
a) 
Labor-intensive public work  
will provide grants to households whose adults participate in public 
works sub-projects. Sub-projects to be undertaken as part of public works will be determined locally by 
the beneficiary communities through an annual, participatory planning process.  With appropriate 
technical assistance being provided by woredas and regions, sub-projects will focus on, but are not 
limited to, environmental rehabilitation. A specific budget for administrative costs and equipment will be 
allocated.  Furthermore, as the most appropriate time for undertaking public works is during the dry 
season, and the period of most need for food insecure households is during the rainy season, a system of 
deferred payment of grants will be established. Public works participants will receive 50 percent of the 
grant at the end of the month in which they have worked, and 50 percent will be deferred until later in the 
year. This will ensure that households have the resources available when they are most needed, that works 
can be undertaken at the most appropriate time, and that public works sub-projects do not compete with 
the intensive agricultural season.  
b) 
Direct support
 will provide grants to households who are labor-poor and cannot undertake public 
works. Beneficiaries will include, but are not limited to, orphans, pregnant and lactating mothers, elderly 
households, other labor-poor, high risk households with sick individuals (such as people living with 
HIV/AIDS), and the majority of female-headed households with young children.  
Component 2:
 
Institutional Support
 
This component will focus on strengthening all aspects of program implementation, including (i) capacity 
building at community level to strengthen beneficiary identification and local level planning, financial 
management, procurement and technical training at woreda and regional level to ensure that all sub-
projects are appropriately designed and rapid response mechanisms are in place to ensure smooth program 
implementation; (ii) support to the development of a monitoring and evaluation framework and a program 
MIS. This includes the implementation of a beneficiary survey, and a detailed program “process” survey 
after the first 12 months. It will also finance several additional studies as part of the shift to the second 
phase of the APL; and (iii) procurement of essential goods and services.  
 
5. F
INANCING
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
70 
GRANT 55.7 
CREDIT 14.3 
Total 70 
6. I
MPLEMENTATION
 
The PSNP is a component of the larger FSP. To mainstream integration of program activities into the FSP 
interventions, no separate program management unit is envisioned. Instead, the existing institutional 
structure will be used, such that food security line agencies at every level of Government will be 
responsible for the oversight and coordination of the PSNP, with implementation of program activities 
being undertaken by woredas and kebeles, line ministry/agencies and other partners.   
Page  5
The Federal level Food Security Coordination Bureau (FSCB) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development is responsible for overall strategic guidance including providing technical support, training, 
coordination and monitoring and evaluation.  The FSCB is also responsible for ensuring that the 
appropriate linkages between the PSNP and other FSP interventions are realized.  
The regional Bureaus of Agriculture and Rural Development, through the regional food security 
coordination offices, are responsible for technical content of activities such as developing and 
consolidating annual implementation plans, mobilizing technical assistance from other line agencies, and 
reviewing progress reports and providing feedback to the implementation units. 
The Woreda Agricultural and Rural Development Offices are responsible for operational tasks such as 
planning, supervision, procurement and financial management. Details of the roles of agencies at each 
level are provided in Annex 6. 
All program woredas will prepare an Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWPB) for the coming 
implementation year and submit it to the Regional Food Security Coordination Office (RFSCO) who will 
consolidate and submit to the Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau (FSCB) by the beginning of 
December of each preceding year, for the duration of the Program.
 
The AWPB should include, at a 
minimum: a) list of safety net activities (sub-projects); b) the number of beneficiaries for each activity; c) 
the budget breakdown for each activity (benefits to households and non-transfer costs of sub-projects); d) 
the administration cost for program implementation with source of financing; e) timeline for safety net 
activities by quarter; and f) evidence of community participation in development of the plan.  
 
7. S
USTAINABILITY
 
Three key factors may affect the sustainability of the PSNP: (a) government commitment to the program; 
(b) the quality of the program design; and (c) fiscal sustainability.  
First,
 
the PSNP is one of the Government’s flagship reform programs and represents a significant 
transformation of the Government’s strategy for addressing food insecurity in Ethiopia. Overall, 
commitment to the PSNP is extremely high, in terms of support from both the highest levels of 
government and from the donor community, as evidenced by the harmonization of seven donors around 
the Government’s program. 
 
Second
,
although rapid implementation of the program is driven by the need to shift away from 
reliance on the annual emergency appeal system as soon as possible, investments in the quality 
of the program are crucial for ensuring sustainability. This has been recognized by the 
Government, which is investing in a training and awareness creation program before program 
start-up. Furthermore, on-going training will be incorporated into the program to try and ensure 
that any gaps in capacity are identified and remedied. A strong monitoring and evaluation 
system, which will be fully established during the first phase of program implementation, will 
serve to identify any bottlenecks and recommend adjustments as needed.   
 
T
o
ensure that investments made through the Program achieve sustainable results, it will be critical that 
the PSNP is effectively coordinated with other FSP interventions (Details on linkages are contained in 
Annex 9). Appropriate coordination and linkage with other programs is envisaged to form a core 
component of the second phase of the APL. Looking forward, it is expected that the PSNP will be 
financed through a budget support instrument following the second phase of the APL.    
Page  6
It should be noted that a key area of focus for public works sub-projects will be environmental 
rehabilitation and critical watershed management; these investments are seen as critical in promoting 
sustainable livelihoods for food insecure households by helping them to increase their productivity and 
reduce their exposure to risk.   
Third
,
the PSNP represents a substantial investment. The estimated cost for the first year of 
implementation is US$170 million to cover approximately five million chronically food insecure people. 
This represents slightly less than 50 percent of all resources being channeled towards addressing food 
insecurity in Ethiopia. The Government’s contribution to the overall food security budget is about 
US$233 million for 2004/05 (2 billion Ethiopian Birr for Ethiopian FY97). The donor financing for the 
PSNP is complementary to these Government resources. While the size of the program is large, the 
resources being made available are not “additional” but are proposed to be deducted from the emergency 
appeal that the DPPC launches each year and finances from donor pledges for humanitarian relief. As a 
sign of long term fiscal commitment, all donors have initially committed to a multi-annual framework, 
and have pledged development resources for up to five years.  
In the long-run, the Government does not perceive the need for a safety net as it is in its current form. 
Progress in household’s ability to achieve food security and manage risks will be assessed during phase II 
of the APL, and the long term plans modified accordingly.  
 
8. L
ESSONS 
L
EARNED FROM 
P
AST 
O
PERATIONS IN THE 
C
OUNTRY
/S
ECTOR
 
The Government’s proposed Safety Net Program represents a substantial change from previous practices 
and has incorporated into its design many lessons learned both internationally and within Ethiopia.  The 
key issues that the program design has addressed are the following: 
a) An emergency relief system cannot address the underlying causes of food insecurity. 
 
Issue:
 The annual emergency appeal system, used to provide assistance to chronically food insecure 
households, has been relatively successful in ensuring minimum consumption and guaranteeing survival 
for those households. However, as detailed in the Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (2004), chronically 
food insecure households need sustained, long-term interventions to address the underlying causes of their 
vulnerability. An annual appeal system is inconsistent with such an approach. 
 
Program Response:
 The PSNP will provide a predictable multi-annual resource flow that will maximize 
the productive elements of the safety net and will allow for sustained investments to be made in food 
insecure communities. Recognizing that the food insecure population is not static, however, the PSNP can 
be scaled up or down, depending on emerging need. The Program will also be carefully coordinated with 
the annual emergency appeal system, which will continue to function for those (a much reduced number) 
who remain outside the safety net. 
 
b) Timely availability of resources is necessary in order to undertake productive activities. 
 
Issue:
 The annual emergency system has built-in delays; once needs have been identified, it is still 
necessary to mobilize food aid from overseas. Given the time lags inherent in such a system (which are 
only partially overcome by holding grain reserves in-country), food aid often does not arrive at the 
appropriate time to undertake public works and arrives only once the lean period has already set in.  
 
Page  7
Program Response:
 By providing resources in a predictable, multi-annual framework, the Program will 
ensure resources are available in a timely fashion, allowing for the proper planning and sequencing of 
activities to maximize the returns from public works.  
 
c) The use of food as a transfer , while valuable as a means of  ensuring survival, is not an effective 
long-term development tool. 
 
Issue:
 Assistance to food insecure households has previously been financed by donors with in-kind 
transfers. While food has been important for meeting immediate consumption shortfalls, experience in 
both Ethiopia and the rest of world shows that it is limited in its ability to empower households to decide 
how best to meet their needs. Moreover, research has shown that use of food aid can be disruptive to local 
markets; by increasing local supply of food grains, it  suppresses local prices and hence local production. 
Rather than stimulate markets and encourage the flow of food into food deficit areas, food aid can have 
the opposite effect.  
 
Program Response:
 The Program will shift from the use of food as the single means of transfer to grants 
as the preferred means of assistance to chronically food insecure households. However, this will not 
happen immediately, since significant program resources will still be available only as food.  Where a 
shift to grants is implemented, assistance will be provided in such a way as to ensure that households can 
use the grants to meet their consumption needs. The Program will also implement grain and livestock 
price monitoring to gauge the impact of increased availability of cash on local prices.  
 
d) Proper planning and identification of activities are essential to ensuring the relevance and 
ownership of the created assets. 
 
Issue:
 Evaluations of previous public works efforts in Ethiopia highlighted that the untimely arrival of 
resources prevented the integration of public works sub-projects into the broader community or woreda 
development planning process. This has led to several important short-comings that have limited the 
effectiveness of previous public works: (i) communities have not had the opportunity to define their 
priorities with respect to public works, which has meant that the assets created were not always wanted, 
or considered a priority for local communities; (ii) communities did not understand the importance of 
certain public works sub-projects since they were not involved in the planning process, resulting in a 
reluctance to maintain assets once constructed, and in some cases, the removal of certain structures; and 
(iii) an integrated approach was not used in the selection of public works activities, since sub-projects 
were often undertaken on an ad-hoc basis. This was particularly important with respect to watershed 
management, where individual interventions are only successful when combined effectively with others. 
Thus the usefulness of assets created through public works was often limited. More recent programs in 
Ethiopia (such as the World Food Program’s (WFP) MERET program) have achieved much better results 
by focusing on strengthening the planning component of public works. 
 
Program Response:
 Participatory community planning forms a cornerstone of the Government’s new 
program. This will be strengthened on an on-going basis through capacity building at the community 
level.  
 
e) The availability of non-transfer resources is critical for ensuring the creation of productive assets. 
 
Issue:
 The emergency appeal system, up until now, has been funded by donors almost entirely using food 
aid, with a very small percentage being available in the form of cash resources. While the focus of  public 
works is to ensure that food insecure households receive the required transfer, the effectiveness of 
previous public works, particularly in Ethiopia, have been limited by the fact that a minimal level of 
resources for non-transfers costs were not available. This has led to an overemphasis on transfers, and too 
Page  8
little attention to ensuring that the assets created through public works are sustainable and of use to local 
communities.  
 
Program Response:
 Under the PSNP, woredas have at least 20 percent of their program budget to spend 
on complementary inputs. Moreover, this percentage may vary for sub-projects that will need higher 
technical input, as long as the global ceiling is not exceeded.  While 20 percent is very high by Ethiopian 
standards (where in the past public works was implemented with very little or no non-transfer 
component), this is still very low when compared with experiences from other countries
1
.
Recent 
experiences, such as with public works sub-projects run by CARE, have found that 20 percent is an 
appropriate amount in the Ethiopian context. This issue will be monitored closely and, as part of the 
program process evaluation, will be adjusted either up or down depending on demonstrated need and 
capacity.  
 
1
See “Systemic shocks and social protection; the role and effectiveness of public works”, Subbarrao, K, 2001  
Page  9
Table 2: Difference between the previous Employment Generation Schemes and the new Safety Net 
Public Works 
 
9. S
AFEGUARD 
P
OLICIES 
(
INCLUDING PUBLIC CONSULTATION
)
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
 
Previous EGS  activities
 
New Safety Nets Public Works 
Framework  
‰\03
Annual emergency 
‰\03
Longer-term productive vision 
Resources 
‰\03
No certainty on the amount of resources 
for woredas. 
‰
\03
Due to the nature of the annual appeal 
process, resources often arrive too late 
for a public works program given the 
season.  
‰
\03
Resources often inadequate for the needs 
of the food-insecure. 
‰\03
Because of nature of the emergency 
response, limited resources available for 
capital inputs and administration of 
program, greatly limiting program 
effectiveness 
‰\03
External resources will be provided on a multi-annual 
basis through the Safety Net Budget line of the 
Government budget. This ensures availability of 
resources from the start of the year allowing public 
works to be undertaken at the most appropriate time. 
‰\03
Budgeting will be based on an improved needs 
assessment to ensure that woredas have sufficient 
resources to meet the needs of the food insecure. 
‰\03
Woredas will be given an appropriate budget for capital 
inputs into public works and other supporting activities. 
This will improve the quality of public works assets 
created and where appropriate allow for more technically 
complex projects. 
Planning 
‰\03
Public works were not planned as part of 
a
broader development strategy for the 
woreda, and did not take into account 
issues of maintenance and coordination 
with other activities. 
‰\03
Often lacked appropriate consultation of 
the community to ensure relevance and 
ownership of assets created  
‰\03
The program will be based on community priorities taken 
into account the woreda development plan. It will 
therefore be carefully coordinated with other 
development activities and programs to ensure maximum 
synergies, and place public works in the context of long-
term development strategy for the woreda  
‰\03
It will ensure that maintenance and sustainability issues 
are directly addressed within the woreda budget.  
‰\03
It will focus on the participation of the community in 
determining priorities and engaging them in maintenance 
of those assets where appropriate.  
 
Institutional 
Arrangements 
‰\03
No clear institutional responsibility for 
EGS activities.  
‰\03
Food Security line offices at every level have oversight 
of public works component of the Safety Net 
Programme, even though multiple implementing 
agencies are involved.  
Training 
‰\03
Limited training and technical assistance 
to ensure minimum standards and 
appropriateness of assets created 
‰\03
Training  will be provided as needed at the woreda and 
kebele levels to ensure that above outcomes are realized. 
‰\03
Improved technical assistance in the planning, design, 
and implementation of public works will ensure 
relevance, minimize maintenance requirements, and 
maximize sustainability. 
Page  10
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X 
] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Riparian Issues: 
 
A
component of the PSNP is public works sub-projects, in which watershed management activities will 
feature prominently. Most of the latter are soil and water conservation activities. However, the list also 
includes activities such as small-scale irrigation (e.g. spring development), micro water channels, and 
water harvesting (communal micro-ponds). However, given that these activities will be identified through 
a
participatory community planning process, specific sub-projects are yet to be identified.  Further, they 
do not involve any capital-intensive works but rather labor intensive small-scale works using simple 
technology.   
 
Yet because the activities, such as small-scale irrigation, are not excluded, riparian issues potentially 
arise.  The Bank team has (a) identified which international waterways the project activities may affect; 
(b) estimated the maximum quantities of water use abstraction, and (c) notified the countries involved.  In 
the Bank’s assessment, the amounts of water likely to be extracted under the safety net are such that no 
appreciable harm to riparians is expected. 
 
10. L
IST OF 
F
ACTUAL 
T
ECHNICAL 
D
OCUMENTS
 
11. C
ONTACT POINT
 
Contact: Trina S. Haque 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5775 
Fax:  
Email: Thaque@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
