                             Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                  Report No:ICR000008




       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
               ( IDA-40040 IDA-H1360 MULT-56013 )

                               ON A

                             CREDIT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR9.8 MILLION
                 (US$14.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            AND ON A

                             GRANT

              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR38.0 MILLION
                 ( US$55.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO

        THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                              FOR A

            PRODUCTIVE SAFETY NETS PROJECT (APL 1)



                           June 26, 2007


Human Development Unit 3
Country Department AFCE3
Africa Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     Exchange Rates (Effective October 31, 2006)
                             Currency Unit = Ethiopia Birr
                                  ETB 8.75= US$1
                               US$ 1.4779 = SDR 1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                             Ethiopian Fiscal Year (EFY)
                                  July 8 - July 7

                               EFY99 = IDA FY07
                               EFY00 =       IDA FY08
                               EFY01 = IDA FY09

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Loan                    MIS        Management Information
                                                              System
DA       Development Agent                         MOU        Memorandum of
                                                              Understanding
DFID     UK Department for International           MTR        Mid-Term Review
         Development
ESMF     Environmental and Social                  NGO        Non-governmental Agency
         Management Framework
FM       Financial Management                      PAD        Project Appraisal
                                                              Document
FS       Food Security                             PDO        Project Development
                                                              Objective
IDA      International Development                 PER        Public Expenditure Review
         Association
ISR      Implementation Status & Results           PIM        Program Implementation
                                                              Manual
FSCB     Food Security Coordination                PSNP       Productive Safety Nets
         Bureau                                               Program
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                    SDPRP      Sustainable Development
                                                              and Poverty Reduction
                                                              Program
HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency                    SWAP       Sector Wide Approach
         Virus/Acquired Immune
         Deficiency Syndrome
M & E    Monitoring and Evaluation                 USAID      United States Agency for
                                                              International Development



               Vice President:    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
            Country Director:     Ishac Diwan
              Sector Manager:     Laura Frigenti
        Project Team Leader:      Trina S. Haque




                                          -i-

                                        Ethiopia
                       Productive Safety Nets Project (APL 1)



                                   Table of Contents


                                                                        Page No.

                                                                        .
1. Basic Information                                                         1
2. Key Dates                                                                 1
3. Ratings Summary                                                           1
4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                    2
5. Bank Staff                                                                2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                        2
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                         4
8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                    9
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                15
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                             16
11. Lessons Learned                                                         19
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners    21
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                         22
Annex 2. Restructuring                                                      26
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                        27
Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                               29
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                    32
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes      37
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                  39
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                          40
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                            41
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR            44
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders          45
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                      46
Annex 13. Additional Annexes                                                49
IBRD Map No. 33405                                                          50




                                            -ii-

1. Basic Information

Country:                Ethiopia              Project Name:          Productive Safety Nets
                                                                     Project (APL 1)

Project ID:             P087707               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-40040,IDA-
                                                                     H1360,MULT-56013
ICR Date:               06/15/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVT OF THE

Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:              FEDERAL
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
                                                                     ETHIOPIA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 70.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 72.1M

Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies

Food Security Coordination Bureau
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners
DfID, Irish Aid, USAID, World Food Programme, Canadian International
Development Agency
2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 04/21/2004          Effectiveness:     02/22/2005        02/22/2005
Appraisal:         09/09/2004       Restructuring(s):
Approval:          11/30/2004       Mid-term Review: 05/29/2006          06/01/2006
                                    Closing:           12/31/2006        12/31/2006

3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance Indicators          QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                          - 1 -

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                          1                  1
Sub-national government administration                                     1                  1
Other social services                                                    98                  98
                                                           Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Social safety nets                                           Primary            Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                      Secondary          Secondary
Other social protection and risk management                  Secondary          Secondary
Nutrition and food security                                  Primary            Primary

5. Bank Staff
                          Positions                              At ICR          At Approval
Vice President:
Country Director:                                          Ishac Diwan        Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:                                            Laura Frigenti     Laura Frigenti
Project Team Leader:                                       Trina S. Haque     Trina S. Haque
ICR Team Leader:                                           Marylou Bradley

ICR Primary Author:                                        Julie Van
                                                           Domelen

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal
Food insecurity in drought-prone rural areas is a defining feature of poverty in Ethiopia. An average
of 5 million people were considered chronically food insecure annually over the 1994-2004 period,
with an upward sloping trend line more recently and a current estimate of between 7 and 9 million
chronically food insecure households. This spiked to 13 million during the drought of 2003. The
major causes of food insecurity are land degradation, drought, population pressure, and low
productivity of rain-fed subsistence agriculture. Despite good macroeconomic growth in the 1990s
and early 2000s, continued environmental degradation, sale of assets to cope with shocks and low
health and education outcomes have kept the poorer households from fully benefiting from this
growth.

Responses to food insecurity in Ethiopia have historically been dominated by emergency food aid,
averaging US$265 million per year in 1997-2002. A World Bank review of safety net programs
estimated that only 20 percent of this aid was linked to a work requirement, mainly ad-hoc public
works of low quality and little monitoring. A robust study of the impacts of food aid in selected
Ethiopian villages in the 1999-2004 period found that emergency food aid played an important role
in improving welfare, access to food, and food security for many households following the drought
in 2002. However, improved targeting, especially in public works, was necessary and larger,
sustained transfers might be required to adequately protect households from asset depletion,
particularly to the poorest households (Gilligan and Hoddinott 2007). The `emergency' appeals
system became a form of permanent assistance to the rural areas but resources were unpredictable,
often failed to arrive at the most critical moments, and appeared to promote further dependency.

As Government prepared its first Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program



                                              - 2 -

(SDPRP) in 2002, there was broad recognition that fundamental changes were needed. As part of
the SDPRP, the Government set the ambitious goal of achieving food security for 5 million
chronically food insecure people by 2009. A Food Security Coalition comprised of key stakeholders
was tasked to define priority interventions. The Government requested Bank assistance to design a
more productive safety net as one element of the broader Food Security Strategy to reduce
dependence on emergency interventions and link the safety net to services that promote graduation
out of food insecurity. The project contributed to the Bank's higher-level Country Assistance
Strategy objectives for that period which identified reform of the safety net as central to breaking
the rural food insecurity trap.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The overall program objective of the Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP), a five-year, two-
phase Adjustable Program Loan (APL), was to improve the productivity and efficiency of transfers
to chronically food insecure households, reducing household vulnerability, improving resilience to
shocks, and promoting sustainable community development.

The project development objectives of Phase 1 (2005-2006) were to assist the Government to
transition from a relief-oriented to a productive and development-oriented safety net by (i)
providing predictable, multi-annual resources, (ii) replacing food with grants as the primary
medium of support, and (iii) making resources available for critical capital, technical assistance,
and administrative costs. Moreover, the project aimed to significantly strengthen community
involvement by supporting community targeting and local-level participatory planning as core
principles of the program. Furthermore, emphasis was to be placed on relating public works
activities to the underlying causes of food insecurity, especially with respect to soil and water
conservation measures.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification
Project PDO was not revised. Key performance indicators of Phase 1 were:
(a) at least 95 percent of eligible beneficiaries are confirmed as chronically food insecure;
(b) at least 50 percent of eligible beneficiaries participating in public works or in direct support
    have received grants rather than food;
(c) at least 95 percent of disbursements to eligible beneficiaries for public works subprojects have
    been made according to identified needs;
(d) at least 95 percent of disbursements to eligible beneficiaries for direct support have been made
    according to identified needs;
(e) at least 75 percent of capital and administrative budget used by woredas;
(f) at least 75 percent of kebeles (wards) have developed and approved safety net plans;
(g) at least 60 percent of public works sub-projects are assessed as technically sound;
(h) at least 50 percent of woredas are presenting accurate and complete financial reports;
(i) at least 60 percent of all participating woredas are reporting fully on physical progress;
(j) a management information system that provides sufficient and timely information for use by
    management has been established and is operational.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
Target beneficiaries were chronically food insecure households, defined as having had three or
more months of unmet food needs per year in each of the past three years, in the 262 rural woredas
(districts) characterized as chronically food insecure (historically recipients of food aid). The PAD
estimated 5,140,000 annual beneficiaries, 80 percent as participants in Public Works activities and
20 percent as recipients of Direct Support grants. In addition to the household consumption



                                             - 3 -

smoothing and asset protection benefits, poor communities would benefit from the infrastructure
built through improved environmental sustainability and productivity and better economic and
social infrastructure.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had two components:

Component 1: Safety Net Activities (US$68 million) aimed at creating a more predictable,
development-oriented safety net was divided into two types of benefits:
(a) Labor-Intensive Public Works (US$54 million). The objective was (a) to improve the
productivity of the safety net by a gradual shift to payment in cash rather than food to promote local
market development and reduce distortions; and (b) to improve the quality, relevance and
development impact of the infrastructure created. Public works were to be determined by
Community Food Security Task Forces through a participatory process; and
(b) Direct Support (US$14 million) in the form of grants to food insecure households who are
labor-poor and cannot undertake public works, such as orphans, pregnant and lactating mothers,
elderly, people living with HIV-AIDS, etc.

Component 2: Institutional Support (US$2 million)
This component included capacity building at community, district and regional levels, support to
monitoring and evaluation, and administrative support.

6.6 Revised Components
Original components were not revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
The program reached a greater share of the food insecure than initially planned, with 7.2 million
beneficiaries at project closing compared to the 5 million projected at appraisal. To support the
increased resource needs, at Government's request the Bank reallocated US$43.7 million from the
IDA Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project to the PSNP, along with additional
contributions from other donors.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project design benefited from extensive analytical underpinnings and technical inputs
(see Annex 12). The Bank had been deeply involved in rural poverty and food security issues in
Ethiopia via analytical work (Public Expenditure Review 2004 and Risk and Vulnerability
Assessment 2004) and investment lending (Food Security Project, Emergency Drought Recovery
Project and Pastoral Community Development Project). A Technical Note (Securing Consumption
while Promoting Growth: The Role of a Productive Social Safety Net in Ethiopia ­ An Issues Note)
prepared in 2003 served as the basis for the reform strategy and incorporated lessons learned both
from studies and projects in Ethiopia as well as the Bank's international experience in safety nets.
The high level of technical inputs and management attention reflected, in the words of one of the
peer reviewers, that `the proposed operation was an important one to which others would look to
for lessons for years to come.'

In terms of key project design features:
a) The choice of the APL instrument permitted flexibility in the face of a high risk operation.



                                            - 4 -

    However, this choice was largely driven by exogenous factors (to bridge a funding gap between
    IDA 13 and 14) and created a very short, two-year window to get the essential elements of a
    complex, large-scale program functioning. As a result, Phase I objectives are intentionally more
    modest than those of the five year program.
b) The PSNP used existing government implementation structures for food security, with some
    strengthening. It was recognized that this was a program which built on an institutional system
    already in place managed by the Food Security Coordination Bureau, albeit in need of
    transformation. But woreda level staff were thin on the ground, had little technical training and
    turnover was high, particularly in remote areas. Managing cash payments would have to be
    made though cumbersome government financial channels, with an estimated 22 steps needed
    before final disbursement. A full capacity assessment was only completed one month before
    program launch. Incremental staffing needs were to be put in place by the FSCB.
c) A more phased-in roll out of such a complex program was rejected by the Government in favor
    of simultaneous implementation in all program woredas from the start. Since the food
    distribution program was already operating in all food insecure woredas, the Government
    argued that a general overhaul was better than a piloting approach, with large gains to be made
    in incremental improvements to the effectiveness of existing transfers. There were clear
    tensions and trade-offs between going to scale in a short period of time using existing
    structures. While this raised capacity concerns, there was a general, but not unanimous,
    consensus among donors that there was a policy reform window opening that should be
    captured.
d) To address capacity constraints, woredas were divided into high, medium and low capacity
    classifications, depending on their ability to channel resources and manage public works. Low
    capacity woredas were slated to continue with food transfers rather than shifting to cash.
e) In terms of safeguard policies triggered, an Environmental and Social Management Framework
    (ESMF) set out simple screening criteria for public works sub-projects including checklists and
    potential mitigation measures. Project preparation would have benefited from a social
    assessment in light of potential issues related to gender, community-based targeting,
    beneficiary perspectives on the food versus cash issue, and the specific needs of certain groups
    like the pastoralists.
f) Resource requirements for the safety net were estimated at US$170 million per year. Much of
    this was slated to come from resources that in the past had been generated through the annual
    emergency appeals process. IDA would contribute about 20 percent of the program costs. The
    PAD does not present a full program financial plan as donor commitments were firmed up on a
    rolling basis, with a 3 year planning horizon updated quarterly. There were extensive on-going
    discussions with donors on the medium-term expenditure framework for the program.

There was a great deal of Government and donor commitment to the program and general
consensus on the need to change from the emergency appeals system. The PSNP received strong
technical input from a multi-donor technical working group as part of the Coalition for Food
Security. There was political support at top levels, including endorsement of the PSNP by leaders at
the G-8 Summit in 2004. To ensure coordination, all preparation missions were carried out jointly
and the appraisal requirements for DFID and the Bank were harmonized. Donor resources were to
be pooled to the extent possible to promote harmonization through a SWAP-type arrangement.

The assessment of risks accurately flagged implementation capacity constraints as substantial,
particularly at the woreda (district) and kebele (ward) levels. However, mitigation measures were
focused mainly on training. Issues of not having enough staff and ensuring clear responsibilities
(e.g. role of sectoral technical staff) at the local levels were complicated by the country's Federal
structure, with a great deal of regional autonomy, as well as the fiscally decentralized and devolved
system of government through which the program was implemented. Other risks identified



                                                - 5 -

(institutional coordination, leakage, local inflation, and donor commitment) were adequately
addressed. The project ought to have been rated as High risk rather than Moderate given the
complexity and high profile of the operation, the short preparation time, capacity constraints and
the potential cost (in lives and Bank reputational risk) of delay or failure. However, despite the
Moderate ratings, Bank management and the task team clearly perceived the high stakes involved--
both the risks and returns--and pro-actively put in place mechanisms to mitigate these risks.

7.2 Implementation
The proposed restructuring of the safety net from humanitarian aid to development assistance was
complex and demanding on the agencies involved. The timeline for full roll-out in January 2005
was extremely tight. The minimum essential elements were in place for effectiveness (February
2005), including a project manual and general orientation to program managers, among other
elements.

The project performed well in the face of many challenges. Even Year 1 saw significant
accomplishments as almost 5 million people shifted from an emergency footing to a multi-annual
cycle; payments to beneficiaries went from 100% food aid to more than half in cash; and amounts
of food assistance provided through the PSNP were higher on a per capita basis than under the
preceding emergency system. Furthermore, the humanitarian risks that some had feared might
result from a large-scale and rapid shift out of the emergency humanitarian system to the PSNP, did
not materialize.

Nonetheless, the first year presented some implementation difficulties, including.
a) There was a low level of awareness of PSNP and its implementation modalities at the
    community level, with insufficient support and orientation provided to the kebele and
    community stakeholders and beneficiaries regarding program modalities.
b) Difficulties in the flow of funds and delays in procurement of essential equipment slowed down
    the initiation of public works and payment to beneficiaries. There were delays in the transfer of
    the capital and administration budget to the woredas and confusion about how it could be used.
c) Large increases in workloads, high staff turnover and lack of technical staff strained
    administrative and technical capacity of many woredas.
d) Community-based targeting was generally well done, but there were some problems in
    interpretation of guidelines, for example in Amhara. The public works component for
    pastoralist areas was not yet designed, so the pastoral regions of Afar and Somali were not
    included in the PSNP in year 1.
e) Political developments also affected implementation in 2005. In May, the first openly contested
    elections in Ethiopia's history were held. Local administrators were preoccupied with
    campaigning and supervising legislative elections, which distracted from managing PSNP start-
    up. Opposition parties disputed the election results and violence ensued. Political developments
    delayed CIDA's multi-year support and led to subsequent changes in the modalities to be used
    for Canadian assistance (from direct support to GOE to support channeled through WFP and
    WB).

Cognizant of the risks and aware of the capacity constraints, a combination of training and the
creation of a joint Government-donor Rapid Response Team to spot implementation bottlenecks
was put in place at launch. To monitor humanitarian risk, an Information Center was set up to get
real-time data on timeliness of transfers and changes in local food prices in the case of a localized
inflationary surge. To reduce complexity, the planned launch of a deferred payments scheme and
the use of coupons was postponed indefinitely.

In the second year, PSNP coverage was increased to cover 7.2 million beneficiaries, responding to a


                                             - 6 -

more realistic estimate of the chronically food insecure population. Many of the implementation
bottlenecks of the first year were addressed in the second year's activities, including:
a) The FSCB recruited a procurement coordinator, a capacity building coordinator, a social
     development advisor and experts in financial management and public works, as well as
     technical assistance in M & E and capacity building, all financed by donors;
b) Regions also recruited technical assistants, and additional accountants and cashiers were added
     at both regional and woreda levels;
c) A management budget line was created for central and regional levels;
d) Training in community-based watershed management was systematized, including
     environmental and social management as part of safeguards; and
e) A retargeting exercise was completed, which better aligned eligibility criteria in some areas
     and increased the coverage of chronically food insecure households.

A Mid-Term Review in June 2006 found that, despite the challenges of scale and capacity, the
PSNP had achieved a considerable degree of progress towards the program development objective
in the first 16 months of operation. The MTR noted improvements in program capacity and quality
in its second year.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Key components of the PSNP M & E framework, which was conceived of as part of the broader
Food Security Program M & E system, were: (a) an MIS to report process and output indicators,
including financial and physical progress; (b) periodic technical reviews of the quality and
sustainability of the public works; (c) annual needs assessments to dimension the appropriate safety
net response; (d) a beneficiary database and automated payroll; and (e) a series of evaluation
studies (baseline survey, studies on poverty targeting, institutional linkages and direct support, local
grain market analysis, a process evaluation, a random audit of transfers and a beneficiary
assessment). Design included two innovative M&E elements to monitor humanitarian risk: (a) the
Information Center to collect real-time information from about 40 percent of woredas on transfers
of cash and food and grain market prices; and (b) the Rapid Response Teams (RRT) at federal and
regional levels comprised of Government and donor staff to detect and respond to bottlenecks. Key
performance indicators were highly appropriate for the operation.

The M & E system performed satisfactorily. In terms of routine monitoring, the basic MIS system
is integrated into normal FSCB operations, and as such, it remains a more cumbersome manual
compilation of reports from lower levels rather than a fully automated MIS. In development
projects it typically takes several years to set up a computerized MIS and have it fully operational.
To compensate, the early emphasis on real time information from a sample of woredas via the
Information Center reports and the on-site monitoring of the Rapid Response Teams played a
crucial role in making early program adjustments based on information from the field. In addition,
the evaluations (of targeting, quality of public works, institutional linkages) conducted early on
provided an essential evaluative base earlier than is available in most programs. There were delays
in launching the baseline survey, but an internationally-recognized research organization was
contracted for the analysis. A large number of reports and technical studies were done as part of the
Joint Review and Implementation Support Missions.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard compliance: Safeguard guidance included in the project implementation manual (PIM),
the community-based watershed development guidelines and the ESMF. However, a technical
review of public works found that familiarity with ESMF procedures at the woreda level was low
and environmental safeguards were not yet fully internalized and so had not been applied in all
cases. Nonetheless, 83 percent of subprojects visited in the Public Works Review were deemed


                                              - 7 -

environmentally sustainable.

Financial management: Financial management bottlenecks appeared early on, including inadequate
training and guidance to the woreda level, not enough staff to effectively carry out the demands of
such a large scale program, delays in disbursing to regions and woredas and delays in reporting
back on expenditures. In addition, a donor requirement to re-work the financial architecture for the
second year caused transition costs and confusion which delayed financial roll-out in 2006. The
first year external audit by the national audit agency was delayed because of agency backlogs. An
external `roving audit' was carried out, providing feedback on FM performance in advance of the
annual external audit. The roving audit found some instances of weak performance (e.g., purchase
of ineligible items, lack of approval of payrolls) but no indication of systematic corruption. A
technical working group on FM issues was formed to monitor the evolving situation. When
completed, the 2005 external audit flagged some areas needing improvements in financial
management. The Government agreed to a remedial action plan which is being implemented as part
of Phase II.

The main procurement issues during implementation were:
 (a) At the central level, timeliness of procurement and delivery of key inputs, which was vital
      given the need for timely start-up of public works, was an issue. In part due to the need to
      carry out international procurement to purchase large quantities of hand tools not available
      locally, the tools needed for public works were late to arrive in 2005. Computers and
      generators were also not in place in a timely fashion. In response, a Procurement Coordinator
      was recruited to FSCB in early March 2006.
 (b) Woreda procurement capacity remained uneven throughout implementation. Procurement
      training based on revised guidelines took place after mid-2005.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Next operation: Triggers to move to APL II, which were related to capacity building, financial
management, the establishment of a beneficiary database and the completion of several evaluation
studies, were substantially met. Phase II of the APL (US$175 million) was approved January 9,
2007. Given the timing, the ICR mission was advanced to October 2006 (two months before project
closing) in order to generate and discuss lessons learned prior to the finalization of the design for
Phase II (see Stakeholder Workshop Annex 9). APL II reflects lessons learned during Phase I, and
aims to:
(a) Continue to improve the predictability of transfers by further building capacity in Government
     systems and by strengthening resource planning and mobilization;
(b) Focus on increasing the productivity and environmental rehabilitation impact of the public
     works through further systematic focus on community planning using integrated watershed
     management techniques, the involvement of key technical staff from the offices of Natural
     Resources and Land Administration through the establishment of Public Works Focal Units at
     federal and regional level, and periodic field reviews to assess quality;
(c) Improve the scalability of the program by developing a drought risk financing contingency
     grant to temporarily increase PSNP beneficiary figures in the case of weather shocks (based on
     a rainfall index). Over time, this will help integrate the safety net and the emergency response
     functions of support to rural households;
(d) Strengthen aspects of monitoring and evaluation, including creating a computer database for
     beneficiaries and automating more of the FSCB's MIS; and
(e) Launch the program in the pastoral areas, with a separate PIM adapted to the specific
     characteristics and needs of these communities.




                                              - 8 -

In addition, the Government's goal of moving 5 million people out of food insecurity by 2009 was
deemed overly ambitious. An anticipated third phase of the APL has been added extending the
program from 2009 to 2014. This third phase will further integrate the PSNP and the other
components of the FSP in order to accelerate households' graduation out of chronic food insecurity
within the more realistic timeframe. In addition, Phase II will develop a better understanding of
how to define, measure, and promote graduation by undertaking key analytical and piloting efforts.

Operations and Maintenance (O&M) of public works constructed in Phase 1: The sustainability of
the infrastructure created is at risk. The Public Works Review found that social sustainability
(community support) was high but there is no explicit training of communities in O & M,
responsibility lines are blurred and woreda budgets are thin. Data are not yet available on the
staffing and operations of the social infrastructure built, but the number of these interventions is
small. Of greater concern is the maintenance of the watershed management investments, which was
the bulk of the public works portfolio. The approval of Phase II reduces the risk since any urgent
maintenance can be included in the PSNP work program. Phase II also provides reinforced training
to local level staff and committees in sustainability issues.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project's development objective remains highly relevant to Ethiopia's development priorities
and directly contributes to the national goal of reducing reliance on food aid. All stakeholders
remain committed to the program's reform goals. An Interim Country Assistance Strategy was
approved by the Bank on May 1, 2006. The PSNP is a central part of its objectives in the areas of
providing basic services for poor people, land and environmental management to increase
agricultural productivity, and effective drought risk management. The APL series is a core part of
the future lending scenario.

Program design was relevant given that it built on extensive experience in food aid in Ethiopia,
which helps explain the focus on going to scale quickly with improvements over the existing
system, rather than piloting and perfecting a program before going to scale.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Phase I sought transition from the previous system and incremental progress toward the overall
program development objectives expected at the end of Phase II. Outcomes are measured against
Phase I goals of getting the system up and running, shifting to public works and cash, with
improvements in predictability, targeting, participatory planning of public works and better
productivity of the community investments. This is in line with PSNP's overall objective of
providing transfers to the food insecure population in a way that prevents asset depletion at the
household level and creates assets at the community level. The outcomes of the PSNP need to be
viewed in terms of its safety net function, as well as a public works program to create
infrastructure. The safety net aspects of providing support for consumption smoothing and
prevention of asset depletion are as important as the benefits to be derived from the public works
themselves.

Outcome information is derived from FSCB reports and external evaluations (see Annex 12). It is
worth putting in context that the following is a measurement of program effect after just two years
of operation because of the APL I format. In a more typical investment project, this would be at the
Mid-Term Review point. The implementation success needs to be measured against this short
yardstick.



                                             - 9 -

Achievement of Programmatic Goals, Coverage and Targeting

The program reached more beneficiaries than anticipated. The PSNP kept resources flowing to
beneficiaries and averted any significant humanitarian risk. Compared to an appraisal target of 5.1
million annual beneficiaries, PSNP reached 4.8 million in 2005 and 7.2 million in 2006. The
program was always viewed as scalable in the face of changing circumstances and with the
knowledge that the total food insecure population was larger than 5 million. In light of the
retargeting exercise in Year 2 and resource availability, the higher 2006 target was agreed. As a
result of PSNP, the Government has scaled down its annual emergency appeals system, down to 2.2
million in 2005 and 1.9 million in 2006 from 7.2 million in 2004 before the PSNP.

The shift to cash exceeded Phase I targets. Compared to a target of 40% for 2005 and 50% in 2006
for cash recipients, 66% and 62% of beneficiaries received cash payments (in full and in part),
respectively. The absolute numbers of cash recipients was far higher than at appraisal since the
program was able to reach more households than foreseen. Due to the seasonal increases in food
prices in some localities, 20% of beneficiaries switched back to food for part of each year (Table 1).
This flexibility was deemed desirable and was included in the program design.

             Table 1 : Food-Cash Distribution and Timeliness of Transfers, by year
          % Food     % Cash     % Cash      % transfers received by      % transfers received by
                               and Food      beneficiaries by June       beneficiaries by October
 2005    34%         46%       20%         11%                        88%
 2006    38%         44%       18%         53%                        74% cash 87% food
Source: FSCB Financial and Physical Report 2005, Mid-Term Report 2006, Information Center Reports.

Community-based targeting of food insecure households was relatively accurate. The Targeting
Ethiopia's Productive Safety Net Programme Study (the Targeting Study) confirmed that almost 90
percent of recipients were classified as food insecure, consistent with appraisal targets of 90 percent
for 2005 and 95 percent for 2006. PSNP beneficiary households had higher dependency ratios,
lower labor capacity, and less income and assets than non-beneficiaries (Table 2). Direct support
households were well chosen, with 59% permanently unable to work, 25% headed by elderly, and
20% had members with disabilities (versus 4% of non-beneficiary households, for example). From
the Baseline Survey, both public works and direct support beneficiaries had significantly lower
mean asset holdings than non-beneficiaries prior to PSNP. However, there were errors of exclusion
where needy families did not benefit. 71% of non-beneficiaries reported food shortages. Early
feedback on these errors of exclusion helped make the case for increasing program beneficiaries
from 5 to over 7 million. The Targeting Study did not find any systematic political or ethnic bias in
the selection of beneficiaries.

        Table 2: Household characteristics of PSNP beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries
     Economic Characteristics            Direct Support         Public Works         Non-PSNP HH
     Annual HH income (birr)                  690                  1,587                  1,949
     Total Asset value (birr)                 320                    846                  1,471
     HH owning land (%)                       75.4                  88.8                   88.2
     Land cultivated (ha)                     0.47                  0.64                   0.98
Source: Targeting in the PSNP, IDL Group, October 2006


Predictability of transfers improved at the macro and community levels. A 3-year rolling financing
program was developed and several donors began to make multi-year commitments, adjusting to
the idea of financing ahead of need. This helped early identification of potential financing gaps.



                                            - 10 -

Donor harmonization, while difficult and at times under strain, has in fact been sustained and is one
of the most important factors that allowed the program to function at this scale and with this level
of technical support. Moreover, the evolution of the number of partners and the volume of
resources have both had a positive trajectory.

In terms of predictability at the local level, start-up challenges caused delayed payments to
beneficiaries in 2005. In 2006 the situation improved somewhat. Per Table 1 above, in 2006, 53%
of transfers were completed by June versus only 11% in 2005. Public works that start in the latter
part of the year may compete with the agricultural season and draw household labor away from
own production, but the general seasonality of transfers is adequate (see Chart in Annex 5). The
biggest issue in the "predictability" of local transfers is late and somewhat erratic payments to
beneficiaries, even if the public works themselves are carried out on time. The program was
designed with the intention to make monthly payments, yet in 2005 only four payments were made
due to the burdensome process of payroll preparation, verification and travel to effect payments.
This problem may undermine the consumption smoothing goals of the program, although the bulk
of payments continue to be completed prior to the commencement of the traditional "hungry
period" (June-September).

Outcomes of the Safety Net Reform for Households

The effect of the income transfers on consumption smoothing was positive. Data from both the
Trends in Transfer Study and the Baseline Survey confirm positive effects on household food
security. PSNP-supported households had significantly higher number of months of unmet food
needs before the PSNP. Beneficiary households typically said they suffered fewer hungry months
and ate more meals per day after PSNP. In terms of self-perception, 62% of beneficiaries versus
46% of non-beneficiaries reported being better off than one year ago. When asked the reason, 70 %
attributed the improvement to PSNP assistance. Approximately one-quarter of PSNP beneficiaries
acquired new assets for their households or new skills during 2005/06, which they mainly attributed
to PSNP.

The PSNP may be having an effect on reducing distressed sale of assets by food insecure
households. The Trends in Transfer Study found that in 2005, 28% of beneficiaries sold livestock
or other assets including land to buy food (effectively meeting APL outcome targets of no more
than 50% for 2005 and 25% for 2006) versus 37% for non-beneficiary households. The Baseline
Survey completed in 2006 reports higher absolute levels of distressed sales over the prior 2 year
period for both beneficiary and non-beneficiary households (rates between 33 and 66 percent).
Non-beneficiaries were far less likely to sell assets (pre-PSNP) than beneficiaries. Future household
surveys will provide more robust longitudinal data on the progress achieved on protecting rural
assets.

The spill-over effects on promoting schooling and health care appear positive. Data from the
Trends in Transfer Study indicates that beneficiary households kept their children in school longer
than the year prior to program start; 27% had enrolled more children in school this year than last,
which they attributed specifically to PSNP, and 35% used health facilities more.

Improvements in the Productivity and Impact of Public Works

Phase I marked a significant shift away from hand-outs to beneficiaries toward wage payments to
beneficiaries in exchange for their work in the development of community assets. An estimated 20
percent of previous emergency assistance was channeled with some form of work requirement.



                                              - 11 -

Under the PSNP this was inverted, with 81 percent of beneficiaries carrying out a public works
requirement.

Basing public works identification on participatory local planning improved during
implementation. The first year public works were `off the shelf' and largely identified by local
officials. For the second year, FSCB collaborated with the Natural Resources Department to carry
out training in community-based watershed management to improve the technical content and local
relevance of the works selected. However, the process still has room to improve its participatory
aspects. The mid-2006 Baseline Survey found that extension service and sectoral agents played a
significant role in all types of projects except schools. Typically, between 15-25 percent of
activities are reported to have been selected by the Community Food Security Task Forces. About
10 percent of surveyed households indicated that they had participated in project selection. Given
systemic weaknesses in woreda planning processes, there is also still some distance to go to
integrate project selection with woreda development plans. Nonetheless, the public works review
found that 95 percent of projects were appropriate and in most cases the community felt involved.
The Baseline Survey also found that the vast majority of households perceive these projects to be of
value to the community, and to a lesser extent, themselves.

                         Table 3: 2006 Public Works Performance Review (in %)
     Region            SNNPR            Oromiya          Amhara           Tigray            Average
 Appropriate       95                100             100               100              99
 Effective         95                89              71                83               85
 Good Quality      60                22              66                75               56
Source: Summary of Public Works Review Findings for SNNPR, Oromiya, Tigray Regions, June 2006.

The type of infrastructure built is intended to improve local economic productivity and increase
human capital, but quality issues could compromise outcomes in this area over time. Public works
projects were concentrated in the areas of soil conservation and watershed management and roads,
with some social infrastructure constructed (classrooms, health posts, farmers' centers) (see Annex
4). Most were considered effective, but only 56% were assessed as technically sound (Table 3).
This is consistent with Phase I targets of 40% of acceptable quality in the first year and 60% in the
second year. This low expectation reflects a realistic measure of progress from the previous system
where works were generally of very low quality. Phase II has set the target of 85% acceptable
quality on public works. Weaknesses in technical quality are associated with a lack of technical
support in project design, substandard materials and a weak system of supervision. The 20% of sub-
project costs transferred to woredas for capital and administration were meant to address in part
technical quality issues. In 2005, 64% of these funds were used. In 2006, this figure reached 80%,
versus an end of Phase I target of 75%. Nonetheless, it is worth pointing out that labor intensities
upwards of 80% are exceedingly high based on international experience in public works and while
they boost the safety net feature of the program, it may constrain community choice and
compromise quality over the longer-term.

8.3 Efficiency
An economic rate of return (ERR) was not generated at appraisal as it is not applicable to this type
of program. While an ERR on the public works can be estimated in the future once there is
sufficient data to adequately quantify ex-post benefits of the infrastructure (e.g. agricultural
productivity increases, time savings to households etc.), given the social objectives of the program,
an ERR will not be the only criterion to evaluate the project.

The overall level of benefits was greater than expected at appraisal due to the increase in
beneficiary numbers in 2006. Other areas of potential economic impact include:


                                             - 12 -

 (a) Stabilization effects: The PSNP provided some prevention against asset depletion. The long-
     term economic benefit of avoided asset depletion will be measured in Phases II and III.
 (b) Increases in agricultural productivity from soil conservation, better environmental
     management, and complementary rural infrastructure. The effect on agricultural productivity,
     while assumed to be positive in line with experience elsewhere in the country, has not yet been
     empirically measured.
 (c) Increased access to public infrastructure and services. Roads, wells, schools, health centers and
     other public infrastructure will deliver significant benefits, and the income effects of cash
     transfers appear to promote greater ability to access local services.
 (d) Market development: It was assumed that using cash grants rather than food would increase
     local purchasing power and stimulate the deepening of local markets via cash transfers to
     beneficiaries, with potential multiplier effects. Cash only recipients used the transfers in more
     diverse ways than food rations, such as reducing debts, paying for health care and education,
     and buying farming inputs.

Cost Effectiveness of the Public Works Program as Workfare
The program is highly cost-effective compared to international comparators. This is due to its high
labor intensity, the good geographical and household level targeting and the assumed relatively low
foregone income from participation. A cost effectiveness analysis of the public works program as
workfare is detailed in Annex 5. The cost effectiveness of the wage transfer is 0.55, so it costs
US$1.88 to transfer $1 in net wage benefit to a food insecure person through PSNP. Cost
effectiveness of the infrastructure benefit is 0.47, so it costs $2.13 to transfer 1$ of infrastructure
benefit to poor communities. Thus, in Phase I the wage transfer was more cost effective than the
infrastructure transfer benefit.

Financial Analysis
Based on the 2006, the resource envelope required for the PSNP at end of Phase 1 is about US$225
million per year or 1.5 percent of GDP. The program accounts for about 3.7% of total Government
expenditures (recurrent and capital) and 5% of poverty-related spending. At the level of the woreda,
the PSNP constitutes a sizable source of additional resources relative to intergovernmental fiscal
transfers. Analysis of the financing plan shows that 102% of cash resources estimated at appraisal
were made available to the PSNP, but there were significant changes in funding sources.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The Ethiopia PSNP is an ambitious and complex project that achieved its development objectives
under difficult circumstances. The accomplishments of the first two years were significant in terms
of coverage, achievement of programmatic goals and positive impacts at the household level. PSNP
is becoming a more predictable source of transfers to chronically food insecure households. In
general, the path of improvement is on track to meet the overall program goals by the end of the full
APL series. Relevance and efficiency are very high. Therefore, the overall rating is satisfactory
despite the implementation difficulties in the first year.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The transfer amount, at about US$20/person/year is not structured to directly raise households out
of poverty. Longer-term effects of better nutrition, ability to protect and accumulate household
assets and greater access to community infrastructure and services are more likely to have an
impact on household poverty and long-term food security than the income impact of the immediate
transfers themselves.


                                             - 13 -

In terms of gender impacts:
a) Female-headed households surveyed showed the highest level of food insecurity in the
    preceding year and were specifically targeted within the program criteria. For those regions
    reporting by gender in the 2005 MIS, 51% of direct support beneficiaries were female headed
    households and preliminary estimates for 2006 are 56%. In public works, female-headed
    households accounted for 30% of beneficiaries and women accounted for 44% of total person
    days of employment generated, 66% of cash payments and 45 % of food payments.
b) Estimates show that female-headed households received relatively larger per capita transfers of
    cash and of food (+9% over male-headed households).
c) Almost all Community Food Security Task Forces included at least one elected representative
    from a local women's group. And, an estimated 40% of Development Agents are women, who
    take an active role in targeting and implementation.

In terms of marginalized groups, launching of public works among nomadic populations was slow
to be developed. Pastoralist districts remained under the emergency scheme while pilots could be
developed. This was deferred to Phase II to simplify implementation challenges of the first years.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutional development approach of the program is to build upon existing institutions rather
than create new ones. Impacts on capacity development vary by level:
(a) The most significant impacts have been at the federal level. Improved donor harmonization and
    the creation of a community of stakeholders have helped solidify a reform constituency. The
    FSCB has received substantial strengthening.
(b) At the woreda level, the project has provided some capacity building particularly in watershed
    management and financial management. But, high staff turnover erodes these capacity gains.
(c) In terms of institutional impacts outside of the public sector, linkages with NGOs, the private
    sector and existing community-based organizations have been underdeveloped. NGOs felt they
    were largely excluded from the design process. Some have implementation responsibilities in
    the woredas through USAID's support to PSNP as well as involvement in capacity building and
    translation of manuals into local languages. Private sector contractors and contracted
    supervisors can be an effective response to quality problems based on international experiences
    in public works safety net programs and social funds, but this has been underutilized in the
    PSNP. The PSNP approach is very State-centric, favoring force account public works and
    utilization of the existing technical capacity of the public sector.

The program has an explicit goal of institutional linkages both within the food security sector as
well as with other rural development and sectoral programs that will be necessary to promote
household graduation from PSNP. A study on these institutional linkages found that at Federal level
there is little linkage with other institutions beyond its implementation partners in the Ministry of
Finance and the Disaster Preparedness and Prevention Agency (DPPA). At woreda level, sector
officers are involved in program operations, albeit with technical weakness. The Baseline Survey
found that outside of Tigray, and to a lesser extent Amhara, there is little evidence that PSNP
households also receive benefits from the other areas of the Office for Food Security to help them
graduate out of the PSNP over the medium-term.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Generalized inflation and food-price inflation specifically have been rising rapidly in recent years
in Ethiopia and the potential impact of PSNP cash transfers on local grain prices has been an issue


                                              - 14 -

that has been closely monitored. Increases in grain prices have potentially both positive and
negative effects on households depending on whether households are net purchasers or sellers of
grain. Early results of-ongoing analysis commissioned by donors and Government to better
understand recent inflation trends has suggested that while the PSNP is a contributing factor to
increasing grain prices, it is a largely insignificant factor in explaining recent trends given the size
of the program relative to the overall economy.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A joint donor-Government Stakeholder Workshop to discuss lessons learned from Phase I was held
in Addis Ababa in October 2006. The results contributed to the Lessons Learned section of this
ICR. To avoid repetition, see Section 11, and a full summary of the Workshop in Annex 9.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

Overall, the risks to development outcome are rated as Substantial largely because of the program's
reliance on donor financing in a risky political environment and the limited attention to O & M in
Phase I. Specific issues include:
a)   There is broad buy-in and commitment to safety net reform by Government and donors. The
    likelihood of policy reversals are negligible, but overall donor-Government relations remain at
    risk;
b) Program management issues are being gradually addressed, but support to the community level
    structures remains underdeveloped and fiduciary systems are weak. This presents some risk to
    sustainability of development outcomes.
c) Sustainability of the infrastructure benefits of Phase I is at risk (see discussion in Section 7.5),
    even though there is undoubtedly progress over the previous emergency scheme. Phase II can
    provide corrective measures; and
d) Financial/fiscal sustainability of the program at over 8 million beneficiaries per year will be an
    ongoing issue. At the end of Phase 1, there is better multi-year predictability compared to the
    emergency annual appeals system, but longer-term financing for the program is an issue.
    Previously, the needs of the chronically food insecure were addressed through emergency
    appeals funded under humanitarian programs. The shift to a safety net approach funded
    through development channels (rather than humanitarian) creates humanitarian risks since
    bilateral programs are more vulnerable to changes in donor priorities driven by concerns about
    governance and/or shifts in sectoral orientation or countries of concentration.
e) Government is making significant own resources (US$230 million per year) available for
    investments in graduating food insecure households, in coordination with the PSNP, in order to
    bring down program coverage levels in the medium-term. The effectiveness of the other
    elements of the Food Security Strategy has not yet been systematically evaluated.




                                              - 15 -

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Quality at Entry rating is moderately satisfactory. The speedy delivery of such a large-scale
program caused moderate shortcomings in terms of technical preparation in some key areas, but
intensive donor and Bank engagement sought to actively control the risks. Specific aspects of
quality at entry include:
Strategic Relevance and Approach: The PSNP is an innovative vision for a safety net in a low-
income country with high vulnerability. The Bank was instrumental in developing the reform
approach and was viewed as a key broker between donors and Government, providing a conduit for
higher-level decisions when needed. And, the Bank was uniquely placed to draw on global
experience and innovations in safety net design.
Technical, Financial and Economic Aspects: Project preparation benefited from strong analytical
underpinnings and extensive design discussions both in Ethiopia and within the Bank. Reaching
agreement with Government regarding the need to carry out a local-level capacity assessment was
delayed and would have helped to identify upfront actions that might have avoided some of the
implementation problems of 2005. In addition, preparation would have benefited from a social
assessment to gauge household preference and reactions to proposed changes in the safety net and
to better assess gender issues.
Environmental and Fiduciary Aspects: The complexities of working through public finance
channels and local level procurement for force account civil works were significant. While all of the
project documentation in terms of procurement, financial management and safeguards were
acceptable for Bank standards, the capacity to actually carry out these parts of the program were
weak at launch, with little time to fix before roll-out. The Bank Team was aware of these limitations
and sought to address and mitigate them through intensive and innovative implementation support
arrangements.
Institutional Aspects and Implementation Arrangements: Identification of capacity constraints
focused on gender sensitive local planning, timely delivery of transfers, financial management and
reporting, social mobilization and monitoring and evaluation. While international best practice
pointed to the need to ensure technical supervision by contracting out, this option was available to
woredas in the utilization of their capital and administration budgets. However, there is little
experience with this and general hesitancy on the part of local staff to engage in such private sector
contracts.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: An effective M & E framework was developed, but
preparation would have benefited from more timely inputs to the implementation of the MIS
upfront in order to better track year 1 operations.
Risk Assessment: The overall risk rating should have been High rather than Moderate.
Bank Inputs and Processes. Bank support for project preparation was exemplary. The project team
maintained very close and sustained contacts with Government preparation team and other donors,
including 5 joint missions during 2004. During the ICR mission, donors widely praised the quality
of the technical inputs provided by the Bank. A Bank readiness mission was fielded prior to
effectiveness to ensure adequate conditions were in place to launch.




                                             - 16 -

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory


Bank supervision is rated highly satisfactory and is an outstanding example of an implementation
support approach versus a more narrow supervision approach. The Team excelled at timely
identification of problems and innovative solutions. The level of effort was exceptional, including
quarterly joint donor implementation support missions and a great deal of technical analysis by the
Bank team to support both the donors and the Government. This was helped by a larger than
average supervision budget and effective use of Trust Fund resources.
Focus on Development Impact: The commitment of Bank Management and the Task Team to
policy reforms was strong throughout Phase I. In the face of the challenging implementation
environment, the Team's focus on outcomes, setting up systems to track unintended effects (e.g.
changes in grain market prices) and getting early evaluative evidence on targeting, public works and
institutional linkages was exceptional.
Supervision of Fiduciary and Safeguard Aspects: Financial management aspects received high
attention. The Task Team flagged problems by downgrading FM to marginally unsatisfactory
during the June 2005 mission, then upgraded to marginally satisfactory by December 2005 and
satisfactory by mid-2006. The Country Office procurement specialist was part of the PSNP
Procurement Working Group which reviewed procurement performance and gave timely feedback
to Government on issues as they arose.
Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes: Supervision has been intensive, with quarterly joint
implementation missions and on-going technical support from the Ethiopia Country Office.
Management has provided a larger supervision budget than the average given the flagship nature of
the operation. All missions have been undertaken jointly, a formal MOU signed, and a PSNP Joint
Coordination Committee has been formed with a rotating chair, supported by a donor coordination
secretariat. Donors, including Bank representatives, participated directly in the Rapid Response
Team and in the PW Review. The Bank's role has been critical in monitoring and evaluation,
including building the basis for a robust impact evaluation through the Baseline Survey. The donors
would have preferred the Task Team Leader be based in the Country Office, but a Country Office
staff member was a permanent part of the team and led some joint supervision missions.
Candor and Quality of Performance Ratings: Both the PDO and IP ratings remained satisfactory
throughout Phase 1. These ratings were overly optimistic in 2005. Issues like the quality of
environmental screening could have been downgraded to marginally unsatisfactory based on
evaluation reports of the public works projects, but were maintained as satisfactory given the
overall positive trajectory regarding implementation of community-based watershed management
approaches. Even though the indicators were not downgraded, ISRs were candid in their
assessments of progress and the key implementation issues facing the program.
Role in Ensuring Adequate Transition Arrangements: The Task Team has been proactive in
preparing Phase II and in early detection of potential funding gaps.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory. The Team was realistic about the risks of
going forward quickly, but had to weigh this against Government's enthusiasm to begin these
programmatic reforms and the higher-level commitments to do so by all stakeholders. Highly
effective and intensive supervision and technical support responded to the importance of the


                                           - 17 -

program and the significant risks present.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government's performance is rated as satisfactory:
a) Ownership and commitment to the program and to addressing food insecurity overall was very
    high at all levels of Government. Although the PSNP itself is donor-financed, the Government
    recognized that the PSNP alone would not lead to household graduation from food insecurity.
    For the last two years the government has committed $230 million annually from the national
    budget for household food security packages to the chronically food-insecure that permit
    households to invest in agricultural productivity and purchase livestock.
b) The program's objectives were well integrated into the country's poverty reduction strategy and
    used national systems rather than creating parallel structures. The Government clearly owns the
    reform agenda and sees the PSNP as an integral part of its poverty reduction strategy. Working
    with existing systems has furthered this ownership, even though this has meant working
    through structures with capacity limitations.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing Agency: Food Security Coordination Bureau
The FSCB performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. In general, the political enthusiasm for
launching this ambitious reform was not well-matched with the immediate capacity of the
implementing agencies. In terms of readiness for implementation and implementation capacity, the
fast roll-out put severe strains on the capacity of the local and regional levels. Nonetheless, the
FSCB was committed to the project development objectives, was able to implement an extensive
overhaul to the food security safety net and increase productivity and effectiveness over the
previous emergency relief system. Despite implementation challenges, the FSCB managed to avoid
a major humanitarian crisis. This is an impressive result given that it was built on a twenty years'
institutional legacy of top-down emergency food aid where performance was measured in terms of
tons delivered. Overall, the FSCB showed flexibility in implementation, including making revisions
to the PIM, implementing watershed management training, and increasing resources to program
management aspects, albeit at donor insistence. Most implementation bottlenecks were addressed,
but often with significant delays given the urgency of program imperatives.

There were moderate shortcomings in several areas:
a) Readiness for implementation issues. The agency tended to over-estimate local capacity and
    underplay the need for training and additional staff. Particularly problematic was the FSCB's
    reluctance to use financing already available within the program for technical assistance that
    could have boosted program performance. A supplemental capacity building budget was put in
    place with donor financing to support a fuller capacity building program as implementation
    issues came to the fore.
b) The FSCB had difficulty integrating other agencies and departments into program management,
    for example deriving lessons for pastoral areas from the Pastoral Community Development
    Project, or incorporating clear responsibilities and financing for the Natural Resources
    Department for its technical supervision functions.
c) There was only a very limited openness to non-state actors, be they NGOs, the private sector or
    the transfer of greater resources and responsibilities to community task forces and CBOs to



                                             - 18 -

    improve implementation performance.

These issues are being addressed in the second Phase, including building up local accountability
mechanisms; increased financial management staffing and training; as one of the conditions of
effectiveness, the establishment of a Public Works Focal Unit in the Natural Resources Department
in each Region and at the Federal Level; and agreement on budget allocation for the unit from
PSNP resources.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The high-level of Government commitment to the program and its mobilization of federal, regional
and local actors to implement an ambitious program is laudable. The tendency to downplay
institutional capacity issues and resistance to spending a significant level of resources on training
and recruitment of additional staff, while having a negative effect on implementation, was part of
Government's insistence on using national systems and its view of the PSNP as a national program
rather than a donor-led PIU approach.

11. Lessons Learned

The PSNP is a flagship for what can be done to smooth consumption and protect the most
vulnerable in a very low-income country. However, the Ethiopian experience is highly
contextualized upon the country's twenty year experience with significant amounts of humanitarian
relief assistance. In such an environment, the main issue is to reduce distortions and dependency
while shifting from emergency food aid to a greater developmental impact. Nonetheless, several
lessons from Ethiopia may be relevant to other countries, divided into general design, operational
and donor coordination aspects:

General Design Lessons
a) The extensive analytical underpinning and technical inputs, both at the design stage and during
    implementation, were critical to program success. The bold policy vision of the PSNP had to be
    built on a sound and shared understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of the present
    system and clarity on the nature of the problem to be addressed. Complex and high risk reforms
    such as those embodied in this operation are much more likely to succeed if this foundation is
    present.
b) The PSNP, as in many low income countries, had to build in flexibility in terms of program
    coverage. In addition to the structurally vulnerable, there is a great deal of transient food
    insecurity depending on weather and other agricultural risks. The PSNP built on a long-
    established emergency appeals system with joint Government-donor early warning systems that
    determined the annual population in need depending on local agricultural conditions. These
    fluctuations should be expected in other such settings, with flexibility built into the scale of the
    program.
c) The targeting systems in the PSNP worked relatively well using a combination of geographic
    selection of food insecure districts and community-based targeting of beneficiaries. At the
    community level, the use of simple verifiable indicators for access to direct support (disabled,
    elderly without support, pregnant and lactating women, and female-headed households), a
    public vetting of beneficiary lists through the Community Food Security Task Forces, and an
    appeals process, provided adequate safeguards against elite capture. However, at the local level
    the widespread nature of food insecurity left errors of exclusion. This reflects conditions in
    such low income settings where indicators are approximate (three months of food insecurity in
    last year), family conditions may fluctuate and it is difficult to differentiate between chronic


                                             - 19 -

  food insecurity and widespread poverty. But this under coverage should not detract from the
  fact that PSNP does effectively reach the vast majority of Ethiopia's chronically food insecure
  households.
d) The pace of exit out of food insecurity, and hence reduced need for the social safety net, needs
  to be set against a realistic assessment of overall trends and conditions. Graduation cannot be
   expected to result only from the safety net and needs to be viewed with an understanding of the
   paths out of poverty which are beyond improved agricultural productivity alone, such as off-
   farm employment and urban migration, for example.

Operational Aspects
a) The use of existing Government channels and institutional structures builds ownership but
  presents capacity issues that need to be addressed. Weaknesses, gaps, and capacity constraints
   in the overall functioning of government structures need to be strategically addressed upfront.
   Relying on broad civil service reforms, like changes in salaries and hiring and firing rules, will
   not ease constraints in the short-term. With the caveat that very few countries besides Ethiopia
   have the type of existing bureaucratic structure around massive delivery of food aid upon which
   to piggyback a safety net program, lessons learned on the best approach to working with
   existing structures requires multiple elements, the right mix of which will vary by country
   setting, including:
  · Upfront attention to estimating and agreeing on incremental staffing increases before the
       program goes to scale. This should be based on estimates of incremental increases in
       workloads on program staff at national, regional and local levels. For example, although
       food aid was institutionalized in Ethiopia, the administrative requirements around shifting
       to cash payments and the procedures for local selection of beneficiaries multiplied staff
       workloads;
  · Delivery of training programs for existing staff that takes into consideration the typically
       high turnover of rural civil servants;
  · Simplification of procedures and reporting requirements. For example, although there may
       have been advantages to attempting to use deferred payments or coupons, it was a wise
       decision to postpone these added complexities given capacity issues;
  · One of the trickiest parts of the system was how to speed up disbursements through the
       cumbersome Federal-regional-local fiduciary systems. A program of this nature which is
       highly sensitive to timing (to meet consumption smoothing goals) and attempts to use
       existing Government channels will need a great deal of upfront analysis and agreement on
       streamlining, as well as real-time monitoring of performance, as was done through the
       Information Center.
a) Flexibility for local circumstances should be built into program design. PSNP allowed for
   differences in administrative abilities which determined whether it was best to use food or cash
   in different settings. In addition, the option of switching back to cash provided important
   flexibility in the face of changes in local food prices. Moreover, approaches to public works
   need be tailored to different climatic and cultural settings, as with the nomadic pastoralist
   populations.
b) A communications, training and dissemination strategy is critical. The main implementation
  issues were not so much the availability of guidelines but proper understanding among the key
  implementation levels, including clearly designed responsibilities and accountability at
  community level (and upwards). The focus should be on (a) adequately informing local actors
  using local languages and appropriate materials, (b) creating a more empowered role for
  community task forces to promote ownership and social control, (c) raising the technical level
  of local implementers, and (d) supporting their ability to operate and maintain completed
  works.



                                            - 20 -

c) The PSNP presents an excellent example of developing immediate monitoring and evaluation
    instruments to permit early measurements before fully computerized MIS systems can be set up
    and impact evaluations carried out. The combination of the Rapid Response Teams, the real-
    time data coming in through the Information Center, and a series of field evaluations carried
    out in the first 18 months of operations was exceptionally effective at delivering feedback to
    program managers early on. Proactive supervision of financial management issues, including
    roving spot audits, were important in a project involving large-scale cash transfers and the
    attendant risk of corruption.

Donor Coordination
a) Effective donor coordination was essential to the success of PSNP's first phase. The program
    brought together a great number of agencies (WB, bilaterals, UN agencies) that were already
    working in food aid and food security in Ethiopia and had separate systems and on-going
    programs in place for that. Building upfront consensus around the overall policy goals and
    approach was extremely important. However, even with agreement on goals, the challenges to
    working together, harmonizing operating procedures, sharing supervision, and agreeing on
    remedies to address implementation problems was a challenge. The program charted these
    potential minefields with the help of a few key elements, namely: (a) a systematic approach to
    joint missions and field reviews, with all preparation and supervision missions carried out
    jointly based on agreed upon terms of reference, (b) a donor-financed Donor Coordination Unit
    which served as the secretariat to all of the donors, (c) rotating chairpersonship of the donor
    coalition to avoid dominance by any one agency, (d) transparent financing expectations built
    through a medium-term expenditure framework for the program, and (e) building on each
    donor's comparative advantage be it technical expertise, field presence, experiences in
    Ethiopia, etc. Many of these mechanisms were developed as learning by doing. The donor
    partnerships continue to be strong with both the overall amount of donor funding and number
    of partners being higher at the end of APL I (CIDA, DFID, EC, Ireland, SIDA, USAID, WFP)
    than at the beginning.
b) The high demands on programs that harmonize across donors needs to be recognized upfront.
    With a normal Bank supervision budget and without the additional Trust Fund resources, the
    level of engagement needed for the donor coordination aspects would not have been possible,
    particularly given the large scale, complexity and high profile of the PSNP.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers
Written comments were received from CIDA. Overall comments found that, "the report presents a
concise summary of program implementation and results achieved and will be a useful background
document for future planning. It captures effectively key implementation issues and lessons
learned." See Annex 11 for details.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            - 21 -

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objectives of Phase I of the Program are to assist the Government to shift
from a relief-oriented to a productive and development-oriented safety net by (i) providing
predictable, multi-annual resources, (ii) replacing food with grants as the primary medium of
support, and (iii) making resources available for critical capital, technical assistance, and
administrative costs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                 Original Target Formally           Actual Value

            Indicator                Baseline     Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                      Value          approval          Target      Completion or
                                                    documents)         Values       Target Years
                                   Decrease in the trend in chronic food insecurity (% change in
Indicator 1 :                      average number in need of safety net assistance, 3-year
                                   moving average).
Value
(Quantitative or                   5.14 million Falling                           7.2 million
Qualitative)                       people        percentage

Date achieved                      01/01/2005 12/31/2009
                                   Initial estimate of 5 million was based on 10 year average,

Comments                           with the average for more recent years closer to 7 ­ 9 million

(incl. % achievement)              depending on annual agricultural conditions. The decrease in
                                   food insecure households is only expected over the medium-
                                   term, not within the first 2 years of the program.

Indicator 2 :                      Percentage of program participants reporting no distress
                                   sales of assets to meet food needs
Value
(Quantitative or                   0             75%                               72%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                      01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments                           Indicative results at mid-2006 from Targeting and Transfers
(incl. % achievement)              study.

Indicator 3 :                      Percentage of households in program areas reporting
                                   satisfaction with, or benefit from, developed infrastructure.
                                                                                  HH felt they
                                                                                  benefit from (range
Value                                                                             for 4 regions):
(Quantitative or                   0             75%                              Roads: 53­76%
Qualitative)                                                                      Water: 29-69%
                                                                                  Soil conservation:
                                                                                  22-67%
Date achieved                      01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments                           Baseline Survey preliminary results by region, aggregated
(incl. % achievement)              results not yet available.




                                            - 22 -

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


  Indicator    Baseline        Original Target         Formally        Actual Value Achieved

                 Value          Values (from        Revised Target at Completion or Target
                            approval documents)          Values                 Years

Indicator 1 :At least 95% of eligible beneficiaries are confirmed as chronically food
             insecure.
Value
(Quantitative
or           0             95%                                       87%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006

Comments     Indicative results above from Targeting and Trends in Transfer study.

(incl. %     Preliminary data from baseline survey show that households who later received

achievement) PSNP support were far more food insecure than households who were not later
             selected for the programs. Target unrealistic in light of international experience.

Indicator 2 :At least 50% of eligible beneficiaries participating in public works or in direct
             support have received grants rather than food.
Value
(Quantitative
or           0             50%                                       62% (2006)

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %     124% of target.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :At least 95% of disbursements to eligible beneficiaries for public works sub-
             projects have been made according to identified needs.
Value                                                                100% beneficiaries
(Quantitative0             95%                                       chosen through
or                                                                   community-based
Qualitative)                                                         targeting
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %     Indicator unclear whether related to targeting or identification of public works.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :At least 95% of disbursements to eligible beneficiaries for direct support have
             been made according to identified needs.
Value                                                                100% beneficiaries
(Quantitative0             95%                                       chosen through
or                                                                   community-based
Qualitative)                                                         targeting.
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                         - 23 -

Indicator 5 : At least 75% of capital and administrative budget used by woredas.
Value
(Quantitative                                                        64% 2005
or            0             75%                                      80% 2006
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      2005: 128% of annual target (50%) achieved.

achievement)  2006: 107% of annual target (75%) achieved.

Indicator 6 : At least 75% of kebeles have developed and approved safety net plans, taking
              into account community preferences
Value
(Quantitative
or            0             75%                                      89%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments      The first Public Works Review of 2007 rated the degree of community
(incl. %      involvement in plan preparation and prioritization. A weighted average of 89%
achievement) judged as satisfactory was observed in participating kebeles.
Indicator 7 : At least 60% of public works sub-projects are assessed as technically sound.
Value
(Quantitative
or            0             60%                                      56%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      93% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 8 : At least 50% of woredas using grants are presenting accurate and complete
              financial reports.
Value
(Quantitative
or            0             50%                                      N.A.

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Based on sample roving audit, 50% target is expected, but indicator is not

achievement)  measured in the annual audit.

Indicator 9 : At least 60% of all participating woredas are reporting fully on physical
              progress.
Value
(Quantitative
or            0             60%                                      100%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      167% achieved.
achievement)




                                          - 24 -

Indicator 10 :A management information system that provides sufficient and timely
              information has been established and is operational.
Value
(Quantitative
or            0             MIS Established                        Adequate

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      MIS operational, but not yet fully automated and only partial reporting on some

achievement)  aspects (e.g. gender).




                                         - 25 -

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring  Board       ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed at   Reason for

  Date(s)     Approved     Restructuring Restructuring in US$ Restructuring &
             PDO Change     DO       IP       Millions       Key Changes Made




                                   - 26 -

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Millions equivalent)


        Components              Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
                                  (US$ Millions)               (US$ Millions)            Appraisal
SAFETY NET
ACTIVITIES                                       64.7                          71.3               110%

INSTITUTIONAL
SUPPORT                                            1.3                        0.8 a/               62%

      Total Baseline Cost                        66.0
Physical Contingencies                             4.0                         0.0                 0.0
Price Contingencies                                0.0                         0.0                 0.0
       Total Project Costs                       70.0                          72.1               103%
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)                                              0.0                         0.0                 0.0

Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.0                         0.0                 0.0
            Total Financing
                 Required                        70.0                      72.1 b/                103%


a/ During implementation, close to US$800,000 was disbursed for various institutional strengthening
activities, including studies, assessments, audits, and training/workshops as described in Section 7.2
and Section 8.5. These funds were disbursed from the Safety Nets Grant Disbursement Category.

b/ Due to favorable exchange rate fluctuations, the original US$70.0 million equivalent of the IDA
Grant and IDA Credit increased by 3% to US$72.1 million by project closing.

(b) Financing (2005-2006)

                                                        Appraisal      Actual/Latest
          Source of Funds               Type of                                          Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing     Estimate (US$    Estimate (US$
                                                         Millions)        Millions)        Appraisal

Borrower                                                         0.1                0.1           100%
Donors: Cash
CANADA: CANADIAN
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                                              85.4               17.0            20%

(CIDA)*
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT
FOR INTERNATIONAL                                               82.3               93.9           114%
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
IRELAND, GOV. OF                                                26.4               15.6            59%
  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                         14.3                14.8          103%

IDA GRANT FOR DEBT
VULNERABLE                                                      55.7               57.3           103%

IDA Emergency Demobilization
and Reintegration Project                                         0.0               43.7            n.a.

EUROPEAN COMMISSION                                               0.0               30.0            n.a.



                                            - 27 -

Sub-Total                                                         264.1            272.4       103%
Donors: Food Contributions
USAID (260,630 MT)                                                                 60.3
WFP (278,888 MT)**                                                                 64.5
Total                                                                              397.2
* US$17 million from CIDA to support APL 1 was disbursed in 2007.
** WFP food contributions were mainly from USAID and CIDA (not included in USAID and CIDA entries). A
consistent conversion of MT food to US$ was used of 2 Birr/kilo; 8.65 Birr/1 US$.

(c) Disbursement Profile




                                            - 28 -

Annex 4. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Safety Net Transfers
The PAD projected annual beneficiaries at 5.14 million for the total program. IDA financing was
estimated to cover 20 percent of the program costs, or provide for 1.0 million individuals. Total program
coverage was 4.5 million in 2005 and 7.2 million in 2006. The increase in 2006 responded to perceived
errors of exclusion and was more in line with recent annual averages of food aid recipients, despite being
a good agricultural year. IDA's contribution to this coverage increased to 2.8 million of the total coverage
in 2006 as coverage targets increased and additional IDA resources were made available from the
Emergency Drought Recovery Project. Beneficiaries received an average of 174.5 birr in cash (97% of the
target), or about 20% of monthly household consumption, or 83 kg in grain (93% of the target). This is a
larger benefit than under the previous emergency relief system (41 kg per beneficiary in 2004).

                                     Table 4 : Program Coverage 2005-2006

                                          2005                                      2006
          Region
                         No. of woredas      No. of Beneficiaries   No. of woredas     No. of Beneficiaries
 Amhara                              52                2,000,000                 52              2,519,529
 Oromiya                             51                1,102,022                 62              1,378,876
 SNNPR                               57                  760,461                 58              1,298,981
 Tigray                              30                  911,451                 31              1,453,707
 Dire Dawa                             1                  48,275                  1                  52,614
 Harar                                 1                  16,196                  1                  16,136
 Afar                                  0                        0                29                 472,229
 Somali                                0                        0                 0                       0
 Total                              192                4,838,405                234              7,192,072
 Source: FSCB MIS

                Table 5 : PSNP Cash ­ Food Beneficiary Distribution by Region, 2006
                                                                            Food
    Region             No. of        Cash Budget            No. of         Budget               %
                    Beneficiaries        (Birr)         Beneficiaries       (MT)               Cash
                     (for cash)                           (for food)                       Beneficiaries
 Oromiya              655,332         220,270,171          723,544       76,726.60             48%

 Tigray               910,116         260,056,362          543,591       59,211.60             63%

 Amhara              1,769,480        505,380,547          750,049       81,005.60             70%

 SNNP                1,059,529        307,258,919          239,452       25,860.80             82%

 Harari               16,136           2,221,927               -           871.34             100%

 Dire Dawa                -                -               52,614         5,682.30             0%

 Afar                                                      472,229       76,501.00             0%
 Total               4,410,593       1,295,187,926        2,781,479      325,859.24            61%
Source: FSCB




                                          - 29 -

                          Table 6: Selected PSNP Public Works Outputs 2005 and 2006
                                                         Amount of Works Completed
 Type of Activities                       Unit           2005                        2006
 Soil and Water Conservation
 Soil bund                                Km             10,321                      660,983
 Stone bund                               Km             2,447                       702,777
 Check dam                                M3             898,522                     5,274,621
 Water ways                               M3             130,429                     633,256
 Small-scale Irrigation
 Small-scale irrigation canals            Km.            3,467
 River diverted                           No.            251                         357
 Reforestation
 Nursery Site                             No.            48                          117
 Seedlings planted                        No.(million)   17.23                       63.6
 Compost produced                         M3             5,516                       34,130
 Forage Nursery Sites                     No.            0                           20
 Rural Road Construction
 Rural road construction                  Km.            6,160                       9,730
 Rural road maintenance                   Km.            4,887                       14,970
 Water Supply Schemes
 Springs developed                        No.            310                         1,125
 Hand dug wells                           No.            407                         1,311
 Shallow hand dug well cast               No.            170                         376
 River diversion constructed              No.            26                          261
 River diversion                          Km.            99                          206
 Furrow construction                      M3             3,336                       33,526
 Other Activities
 Farmers training centers                 No.            121                         480
 School classrooms                        No.            836                         1,044
 Health Posts                             No.            342                         539
 Pit latrines                             No.                                        6, 830
Source: FSCB
WB Note: These are figures as reported in the FSCB's Annual Physical and Financial Progress Reports. The significant
increases in outputs recorded between 2005 and 2006 reflect the expansion in the program, but they also probably reflect
improvements in the monitoring and more systematic reporting of outputs.

Component 2: Institutional Support

The institutional support component was underutilized, in part due to availability of bilateral financing for
certain activities foreseen under the Project. Out of US$1.3 million, US$764,000 was not utilized. The IDA
credit and grant financed baseline household survey through the Central Statistical Agency, the roving audit
and the annual audit (combined for 2005-2006).

The tables on the following page show some of the institutional development outputs supported by the
broader program. In addition, donors financed several technical assistance positions in the FSCB in 2006
and all external evaluations and studies were donor-financed.




                                              - 30 -

                                          Table 7: Capacity Building : 2005 Equipment

   Material provision

                                                        Surveying equipment


                                                                                 Clinometer
                    No of      Hard paper   Line                Meter   Nylon    and degree  Ranging Hand     Motor
     Region        woredas     Clinometer   level   Compass      tape    string     scale     pole    tools  bicycles

   Amhara                  52       7042     3521        352       704      352         141    1760  36399       219

   Oromiya                 51       6906     3453        345       691      345         138    1727   35892      215

   SNNP                    57       7719     3859        386       772      386         154    1930   35188      212

   Tigray                  30       4063     2031        203       406      203          81    1016  21111       126

   Harari                  1         135       68          7       14         7           3       34    705         4

   Dire Dawa               1         135       68          7        14        7           3       34    705         4

        Total            192       26000    13000       1300     2601     1300          520    6501  130000      780




                                         Table 8: 2005 Training : Number of Participants

                           Watershed                         Targeting                         M & E        PIM
              Woreda       Kebele   Community     Regional   Woreda    Community     Regional Woreda  Regional  Woreda
 Region        Level        Level      Level       Level      Level        Level     Level     Level  Level      Level

Oromiya            205       1815          5510          1         28          8200        2      134       2       156

Amhara             190       3809          5896          2        120          1032        2       93       4       156

Tigray             107       2304             *          2         52          3060        2       60       4        90

SNNP               175       3890             *          2        143          4000        2       96       4       171

Harari                 3                      *          2                                          4       2         2
Dire
Dawa                   3                      *          2                                 1        3       2         2

    Total          683      11818        11406          11        343         16292        9      390      18       577

* information not available


Note: Consolidated 2006 Training Outputs not available at time of ICR




                                                - 31 -

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Overview
Full cost-benefit analysis (i.e., economic rate of return calculation) is not applicable to this type of project.
In a stylized analysis of costs and benefits, the project would have relatively high social returns to transfers
given good targeting, the positive effect on households and the potential multiplier effects of the shift to
cash. There would be relatively modest returns to capital investments given quality and sustainability
issues, but there is a general consensus that returns are higher than under the previous relief system.

                              Table 9: Direct Economic Benefits to Households:
                    Indicator                        Appraisal      End of Phase 1*     Difference
                                                   Assumptions
 Total # program beneficiaries                         5,140,000       7,192,072             + 2,052,072
 % of households participating in public works               80%          81%                    +1%
 (PW)
 Av. # of participation days per household per                210        150 (*)                  -60
 year
 Average value of wages earned per household                  146          103                    -43
 (US$) per year
 Total # of days of public works generated per       123,360,000      172,609,728            +49,249,728
 year
 Value of wage transfers through PW (US$)             85,567,630      119,041,191            +33,473,561
 per year
 % of households benefiting from direct                      20%          19%                    -1%
 support (DS)
 Value of average annual transfer per                         146          103                    -43
 household (US$)**
 Total value of transfers through DS (US$)            21,391,908       29,760,297            +8,368,389
 Total value of transfers (US$) per year             106,959,538      148,801,489            +41,841,951
(* ) These are the assumptions used in the design of Phase II.
(**) Appraisal estimated average household size at 7 members, actuals were closer to 5.

The table above compares the appraisal economic parameters with actuals at end of project. The wage rate
of 6 birr per day (or 3 kg of food) was maintained during Phase I, as well as direct support transfers of 30
birr per person per month. Maximum participation on public works was set at 5 person days per month for
each household member. The largest deviations are in the number of beneficiaries, which in turn increased
the economic benefits in terms of days of work generated and total value of benefits transferred. The unit
of benefit per household was less than anticipated because the average number of participation days was
reduced from 210 to 150, reflecting a smaller household size. The benefit level is about 20% of total
household consumption, based on assumed $100 per capita consumption level of the bottom three
consumption deciles and an average of five members per household as observed during program
implementation. This level of transfer is significantly higher than that observed in the emergency relief
program, where the food equivalents alone were twice as high under the PSNP than in the emergency
relief program.

Other Economic Benefits:
The stabilization benefit of the program reflects the program's "insurance" function, preventing asset
depletion and poverty traps. In part, this depends on the timing of the program. Poor households often
suffer from precipitous shortfalls in consumption and nutritional status in slack seasons and during periods
or years of drought. As shown in the graph below from the targeting study, the fit between the agricultural
and public works cycles was not perfect, but even in 2005 the bulk of works were reasonably timed to


                                               - 32 -

maximize the stabilization benefit. The graph suggests that food payments were better synchronized with
the hungry season than cash payments. Moreover, late and unpredictable cash payments to beneficiaries
based on work completed may undermine the consumption smoothing objectives of the program.




Indicative data from the Trends in Transfers Study found that the PSNP helped families protect household
assets against forced disposal or "distress sales". Only 28% of beneficiaries sold livestock or other assets
including land to buy food (effectively meeting APL outcome targets of 50% for 2005 and 25% for 2006),
compared to 37% for non-beneficiary households (and non-beneficiary households were generally better-
off). So, the PSNP did provide some net prevention against asset depletion. Based on these figures, at least
10% of households, or about 500,000 people were protected enough by the program to avoid asset sales. In
addition, approximately one-quarter of PSNP beneficiaries acquired new assets for their households or
new skills during 2005/06, which most surveyed attributed to the PSNP.

Productive benefits: The bulk of PSNP investments were in the areas of watershed management,
particularly soil erosion control. Calculations on economic rate of return from these types of interventions
where entire watersheds have been treated is estimated to be 13.5% and 14.7 % respectively, for 25 and 50
year time frames (MERET, WFP). It was expected that this would improve agricultural productivity, as
borne out by small-scale experiments in the Tigray region where the internal rate of return from increased
agricultural production was between 34 and 50 percent. No ex-post studies have yet been done on PSNP
projects to see if these projections hold true for PSNP results (benefits are not immediate and it may take
up to four years before substantial yield increases can be realized).

Infrastructure benefits in access to services: Reduced isolation through better roads, access to social
services like health and education, and improved rural water supply were expected benefits. The only data
available on these benefits are output-oriented. Economic impacts of the rural feeder roads are based on
assumptions of producer surplus. To date, neither ex-ante nor ex-post economic analysis has been done to
date on these subprojects. For social services in health and education, economic analysis is not applicable,
and ex-post information on increased utilization from the infrastructure investments is not available.

Market development: It was assumed that using grants rather than food would increase local purchasing
power and stimulate the deepening of local markets. In terms of the development of local markets, an
estimated US$ 81 million was injected into local markets via cash transfers to beneficiaries, with potential
multiplier effects. More than 40 traders were interviewed in the 16 communities where the household
survey was conducted to solicit their views about the impacts of the PSNP on local trade and prices. Many
traders agreed that food prices are subject to high volatility, but argued that this was always the case and


                                             - 33 -

that `normal' price seasonality dominates over any influence the PSNP might have had. The 2005
household survey indicated that these cash transfers are used in a much more diverse way than food
rations. Almost all beneficiaries used some of their cash to buy staple food (80%) or other food (11%), but
cash transfers were also used for many other purposes (see table below).

                               Table 10: Use of PSNP Cash Transfers in 2005
                   Use of cash                Percentage of Households         Average Spent (Birr)
       Bought Staple Food                                80.1                          162.2
       Bought Groceries                                  58.5                           34.3
       Bought clothes                                    41.0                           91.5
       Paid for health costs                             29.3                           62.5
       Debt repayments                                   15.7                           84.8
       Paid for education costs                          15.3                           27.6
       Paid taxes                                        14.7                           17.5
       Bought seed for farming                           14.5                           64.6
       Bought other food                                 10.9                           84.4
       Bought livestock                                   8.2                          131.1
       Bought fertilizer                                  4.3                           67.5
       Social obligations                                 4.0                           19.0
       Source: Trends in PSNP Transfers Within Targeted Households, IDS/INDAK, August 2006.

Cost Effectiveness Estimate of Public Works Component:

To estimate the `cost-effectiveness ratio', or the relative efficiency of converting program funding to
income benefit for the poor, this analysis adapts the methodology developed in Ravallion, 1998
"Appraising Workfare" (WB Policy Research Working Paper No. 1995). This calculation is based on five
variables:
    1. Labor intensity: the share of all wages paid in total public works costs. Labor intensity of PSNP
         from 2005 is estimated at 85% (non-labor costs calculated from capital and administrative budget
         expenditures), higher than the 80 % estimated at appraisal. This is quite high by international
         standards. The large-scale public works program averaged 60-70% in India (Maharashtra
         Employment Guarantee Scheme), 70% in Korea's public works program, 40-50% in Argentina's
         Trabajar program and 60-70% in Bangladesh's Food for Work Program.
    2. Wage targeting performance: the proportion of the wages paid out that goes to poor workers. From
         the targeting study, 87% of PW beneficiaries were food insecure. While little comparative
         international data exists, about 70-80% of Argentina's Trabajar program beneficiaries were under
         the national poverty line.
    3. Net wage gain: share of the gross wages received by the poor after taking into account any
         foregone income. The costs of participation and foregone earnings are rarely zero because workers
         may walk long distances to work sites, incur transport costs or sporadic, short-term income
         opportunities as day laborers. In the absence of data on the PSNP, the assumption based on
         anecdotal evidence is that little formal employment was displaced, with most costs of participation
         relating to displaced domestic chores and leisure. As such, we use a finding from India in a similar
         low income setting which estimated net gain at 0.75. In comparison, a study of Argentina found
         that net wage gain was only 50% as there were more work alternatives available.
    4. Share of benefits from the infrastructure created that accrue to poor households. From the targeting
         study, this is estimated at 84% based on the share of food insecure in total households in
         beneficiary communities.
    5. Benefit to cost ratio for the PW projects. While a full rate of return is not applicable, for PSNP we
         estimate at 0.56 the share of PW projects deemed of sufficient technical quality, i.e. 56% of
         projects will produce benefits sufficient to cover costs, based on the ex-post review.




                                             - 34 -

Overall cost effectiveness of PSNP is thus:
· Cost effectiveness of the wage transfer: Labor intensity (.85)* wage targeting performance (.87)* net
   wage (.75) = 0.55. Therefore, it cost about US$1.88 to transfer $1 in net wage benefit to a food
   insecure person through PSNP. This compares favorably with Argentina's Trabajar, where the cost
   effectiveness of the wage transfer was about .20, or half as cost effective, largely due to lower labor
   intensity and lower net wage gains.
· Cost effectiveness of the infrastructure benefit can be calculated by the share of infrastructure
   beneficiary households that are poor (.84) times the benefit cost ratio (.56). The cost effectiveness in
   this area is 0.47, so in the PSNP Ethiopia it takes $2.13 to transfer 1$ of infrastructure benefit to the
   poor. While improvements in the benefit-cost ratio are needed in order to make the instrument more
   effective at transferring infrastructure benefits, the selection of the poorest woredas increases the
   relative share of infrastructure benefits going to the poor.

Given the strong performance in targeting poor households and high labor intensity PW projects, the
relative effectiveness of transferring wages is higher in Phase I than transferring infrastructure benefits.

These cost effectiveness calculations can be supplemented with a subjective assessment of the relative
performance of PSNP in terms of international best practice by design feature:

                          Key Design Features of a Good Public Works Program
                         Features                                            Phase I Performance
 · Wage rate no higher than prevailing market wage         Excellent ­ about 75-85% of the prevailing market
     for unskilled manual labor.                           wage for unskilled labor. Targeting reinforced by
                                                           community-based screening methods.
 · Restrictions on eligibility should be avoided.          Good - No restrictions.
 · Program should be targeted to poor areas, as            Excellent - Program limited to food insecure woredas.
     indicated by a credible "poverty map".
 · The labor intensity (share of wage bill in total cost)  Excellent - Very high labor intensity by international
     should be as high as possible .                       standards.
 · Assets created are of maximum value to poor             Good - Poor communities chose investments and most
     people in those areas. Any assets which largely       investments centered on improving their agricultural
     benefit the non-poor should require co-financing      productivity and providing them basic services.
     from the beneficiaries.
 · Public works should be synchronized to the timing       Fair ­ Good - Efforts made to limit work period to
     of agricultural slack seasons.                        agricultural slack season, but delays in works and/or
                                                           payment for work affect scheduling.
 · Encourage female participation. Women can               Good ­ Female coverage in terms both of
     benefit from piece rates or task-based wages;         representation of female-headed households and of
     sometimes wages in the form of food have attracted    female workers are relatively high.
     more women to work sites. Also, provision of
     childcare can improve female participation.
 · Transaction costs to the poor are kept low--one         Good ­ Project sites are located in poor kebeles; hand
     important means to accomplish this is through         tools provided.
     locating project sites close to villages.
 · To ensure appropriate mediation of NGOs for             Poor to Fair ­ Formal complaint mechanisms exist
     protecting the rights of the poor vis -a-vis program  and Community FS Task Forces include marginalized
     managers.                                             populations, but they receive little training and support.
                                                           NGOs are contracted as implementing agencies in
                                                           some woredas.
 · The program should focus on asset maintenance.          Poor ­ No attention to asset maintenance.
Source: Ravallion (1999 and 2000) and Subbarao (1997) as compiled in "Systemic Shocks and Social Protection: Role and
Effectiveness of Public Works Programs" by K. Subbarao. Social Protection Discussion paper no. 302, January 2003, World
Bank.



                                                 - 35 -

Fiscal Analysis of the Program:
At appraisal, the resource envelope projected for PSNP was about US$170 million per year, or about 2.5%
of GDP1, based on an assumption of 5.1 million beneficiaries. It was noted that much of the program did
not represent `new funds', but rather the redirection of resources that enter Ethiopia on an annual
emergency basis for humanitarian purposes. There was no assumed funding gap, but the PAD did not
include a full financial plan identifying expected donor financing.

A MTEF was developed and revised during the course of implementation. Analysis of the financing plan
shows that 96% of cash resources estimated at appraisal were made available to the PSNP, but there were
significant changes in funding sources. The EU entered the program and Canada changed the modalities of
its support. To meet increased financing needs with the increase in beneficiary numbers in 2006, DFID
increased its support and IDA allocated an additional US$48 million from the Emergency Drought
Recovery Project.

Based on 2006, the resource envelope required for the PSNP at end of Phase 1 is about US$225 million
per year. This is equivalent to approximately 1.5 percent of 2006 GDP of Ethiopia. Expansion in program
costs has been less than expansion in GDP. Table 12 above gives further comparators. The program
accounts for about 3.7% of total Government expenditures (recurrent and capital) and 5% of poverty-
related spending. By sector, it is one-quarter of total education and agriculture expenditures (recurrent and
capital) and 40% of health sector expenditures. Moreover at the level of the woreda, the PSNP constitutes
a sizable source of additional resources relative to the main instrument for intergovernmental fiscal
transfers, the woreda block grant. In almost 50% of woredas, the PSNP exceeds the woreda block grant in
size of resources. This relatively considerable scale largely explains the implementation difficulties at the
woreda level in terms of staff available to handle such an increase in financial management and technical
support operations.

                    Table 12: Fiscal Analysis Assumptions based on 2006 Parameters
                       Parameters                                PSNP spending (1,965 million birr) as %
 2006 nominal GDP: 129,209 million Birr                   Of GDP: 1.5%
 Poverty-reducing spending as % of GDP: 30.0%             Of poverty reduction spending: 5%
 HIPC debt relief: 0.9% of GDP                            Of HIPC relief:: 167%
 Recurrent spending: 16.9%, capital 23.9% of GDP          Of recurrent spending: 8.9%; of capital spending: 6.3%
 2006 expenditures (capital and recurrent) on education   Compared to education spending: 25%
 (7,869 million birr), agriculture (8,071 million birr)   Compared to agriculture spending: 24%
Source: Expenditure and GDP data from IMF




12004 GDP was US$9.7 billion (source: WB) and initial program cost US$ 170 million, so the actual
share of GDP at project launch was 1.75% rather than the 2.5% in the PAD.


                                                - 36 -

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

        Names                   Title                 Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Trina Haque           Lead Economist, TTL           AFTH3

Harold H. Alderman    Lead Human Dev.
                      Economist                     AFTH3

William David
Wiseman               Economist                     AFTH3

Endashaw Tadesse      Senior Operations
Gossa                 Officer                       AFTH3

Larissa Pelham        E T Consultant                AFTH3
Southsavy V.
Nakhavanit            Program Assistant             AFTH3

Marylou Bradley       Senior Operations
                      Officer                       AFTH1

                      Senior Financial
Eshetu Yimer          Management                    AFTFM
                      Specialist
Samuel Haile Selassie Procurement Specialist        AFTPC

Laketch Mikael Imru   Rural Development
                      Specialist                    AFTS2

Ian Campbell          Consultant, Safeguards
                      Specialist
Rob Geddes            Consultant, Engineer
Eleni Albejo          Team Assistant




(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.    Date ISR Archived            DO                IP         Actual Disbursements
                                                                    (US$ Millions)
1   02/08/2005                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory             0.00
2   06/21/2005                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory            26.25
3   12/13/2005                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory            46.86
4   12/29/2005                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory            46.86
5   05/18/2006                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory            59.98
6   09/01/2006                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory            70.25
7   06/26/2007                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory            70.78
Note: Disbursements are based on historical disbursement data, as reported in each of
the ISRs. Due to the exchange rates used during implementation, there are slight
variations in the historical disbursement data and the actual disbursement data.




                                          - 37 -

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY04                                             346.45
                    FY05                                             371.31
                    FY06                                              0.00
                    FY07                                              0.00
                                    Total:                           717.76
Supervision/ICR
                    FY04                                              0.00
                    FY05                                              44.77
                    FY06                                             403.27
                    FY07                                              7.20
                                    Total:                           455.24




                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                   Ratings              Borrower        Ratings
Ensuring Quality at     Moderately
Entry:                  Satisfactory           Government:         Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing        Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:    Satisfactory
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:        Satisfactory




                                          - 39 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                 - 40 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

The timing of the ICR mission in October 2006 ­ 3 months before the Project closing at end
December 2006 ­ was designed to generate formal lessons learned as an input into the
preparation of APL II. The ICR mission presented its findings for discussion at a workshop
with representatives of FSCB and the donors. An outline of the ICR team presentation is
provided below and the following discussions are integrated in the ICR text.

 Highlights of the Preliminary Findings of Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Project, APL
                                        Phase 1 (2005-2006)
                  World Bank Implementation Completion Report Mission
                                   Addis Ababa, Oct 2-14, 2006
Objectives of the ICR
Provide a complete and systematic account of performance and results
Capture and disseminate experience in order to improve the selection and design of future
interventions and ensure greater development impact
Promote accountability and transparency
Provide a vehicle for self-evaluation of performance by the Bank and Government
Contribute to overall database on quality of Bank operations

Project Development Objective
Phase 1: Assist the Government to shift from a relief-oriented to a productive and
development-oriented safety net by (i) providing predictable, multi-annual resources, (ii)
replacing food with grants as the primary medium of support, and (iii) making resources
available for critical capital, technical assistance and administrative costs.
More limited objectives than the 5 year APL Program objectives.

Assessment of Outcomes
1. Relevance ­
 Highly relevant to Ethiopia's development priorities,
 Broad stakeholder agreement on the importance of the program

2. Achievement of Objectives ­

 A. Achievement of Programmatic Reform Goals
Multi-year commitment framework built but not yet fully internalized among all donors
Shift to cash was greater than projected, but some mid-year shift back to food
Predictable and seasonally appropriate transfers to households not yet achieved due to
complexity and implementation constraints, but broader humanitarian crisis risk was
substantially averted

 B. Outcomes of Safety Net Reforms for Households (Impact of Transfers)
Reached greater number of beneficiaries than planned (over 7 million in 2006)
Reasonably well-targeted
Indicative evidence of a positive effect on household consumption smoothing and asset
protection
Spill-over effects on human capital formation ­ positive for health services, inconclusive on
education

 C. Creation of Productive Community Assets (Impact of Investments)



                                              - 41 -

Significant volumes of outputs (roads rehabilitated, watersheds protected, dams and canals
built, schools, health centers etc.)
Infrastructure built is appropriate, and in 2006 better integrated via Community-Based
Watershed Development approach
Quality is of concern due to inadequate skills and training of grassroots staff, inappropriate
materials, insufficient technical inputs in design and supervision and underutilization of
Capital and Administration budget
Environmental screening processes not yet internalized - risks
Sustainability of benefits of the infrastructure constructed is unlikely due to quality issues
and limited support to community-kebele-woredas to handle operations and maintenance
Overall momentum towards improvement, with significant system improvements between
2005 and 2006 and general consensus that by 2006 quality was better than under the relief
system, but outlook on PW still dominated by relief legacy.

Efficiency
 Full cost-benefit analysis not applicable
 Relatively high social returns to transfers given targeting, effect on households and potential
multiplier effects of shift to cash
 Relatively modest returns to capital investments given quality and sustainability issues, but
general consensus that returns are higher than under the previous relief system. Nonetheless,
large room for improvement.
 Overall efficiency reduced by relatively weak but improving financial and procurement
management and environmental risks not adequately mitigated

Overall Assessment of Outcome
Strongest area of performance: Relevance and commitment to reform and development
outcome for households
Areas where performance had moderate or significant shortcomings: Achievement of
predictability, `productive' element of PW, and safeguard issues
But noted overall movement towards improvement

Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes (Sustainability)
Broad buy-in and commitment at the policy level to safety net reform by Government and
donors
Program management issues being gradually addressed, but local level remains under-served
and basic fiduciary systems are sub-optimal
Sustainability of the existing public works (2005-2006) at issue
Financial/fiscal sustainability of program at over 8 million beneficiaries not clear
Overall: Moderate Risks that development risks will be maintained

Lessons Learned
To meet the larger program objectives on the productive side of the safety net, community,
kebele and woreda levels, must be prioritized on (a) raising information levels using local
languages and appropriate materials, (b) creating a more visible and empowered role for
community-level task forces to improve ownership and social control over the processes and
outputs, (c) raising the technical level of local implementers (woreda staff, DAs and foremen,
community task forces), and (d) supporting their ability to ensure operations and maintenance
of the completed works.
Increased use of performance monitoring (technical audits, outputs versus work norms, ex-
post analysis of utilization and impact) to ensure the productivity of infrastructure both in



                                             - 42 -

terms of technical quality as well as sustainability.
The multi-donor framework is necessary for building coherence of approach. However, the
sheer scale of technical `fire power' can erode Government control over program management.
Transaction costs can be reduced by formal agreements and dedicated donor coordination staff.

Stakeholder Workshop Attendees:

Food Security Coordination Bureau
Ato Berhane Giraw, Head of FSCB
Ato Beyene, Head PSNP and team
Ato Berhanu, Head M & E and team
Ato Negussie, Head Finance Department

Donor Agencies
Judith Sandford, USAID
Tim Robertson, DFID
Yihenew Zewdie, WFP
Paolo Curradi, European Commission
Ayuba Sani, Irish AID
Wout Soer head of Donor Coordination Team and team members

World Bank
Trina Haque, Task Team Leader, PSNP
William Wiseman, Economist
Endeshaw Tadesse, Senior Operations Officer
Marylou Bradley, Senior Operations Officer
Larissa Pelham, Consultant
Harold Alderman, Lead Human Development Specialist
Ian Campbell, Consultant, Safeguards and Public Works Specialist




                                            - 43 -

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                               - 44 -

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

In addition to the discussion with and inputs from all main donors during the ICR mission and
stakeholder workshop, written comments on the draft ICR were received from CIDA. Overall
CIDA found that "the report presents a concise summary of program implementation and
results achieved and will be a useful background document for future planning. It captures
effectively key implementation issues and lessons learned." CIDA clarified its position on the
changing modalities of CIDA's support in the response to the political environment in
Ethiopia. It also wanted the ICR to highlight the importance of timely monthly payments to
beneficiaries as core to the consumption-smoothing objectives of the program, as well as the
need for improvement in safeguard and fiduciary systems. These changes were incorporated
into the final version of the ICR.




                                           - 45 -

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents
· Securing Consumption while Promoting Growth: The Role of a Productive Social Safety
  Net in Ethiopia ­ An Issues Note. September 15, 2003
· Draft Concept Note, April 15, 2004
· Ethiopia: Productive Safety Nets Project, Minutes of the Review Meeting, Email from
  Southsavy Nakhavanit dated April 27, 2004.
· Ethiopia: Productive Safety Nets Project, Quality Enhancement Review Final Report,
  August 2006.
· Ethiopia: Productive Safety Nets Project, Minutes of the Decision Meeting, Email from
  Herbert Acquay dated September 9, 2004.
· Project Appraisal Document, Ethiopia: Productive Safety Net Project (Report No. 29767-
  ET)
· Aide Memoires: Implementation Support Mission Aide Memoires and Mid-Term Review
  Aide Memoire, (June 2006)
· Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Programme Joint Government-Multi-donor Identification
  Mission, January 29 ­ February 2004, Aide Memoire
· Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Programme Joint Review and Implementation Support
  Mission, Aide Memoire, October 2006
· Project Concept Note, Ethiopia: Productive Safety Nets Program APL II, draft August
  2006.
· Ethiopia: Productive Safety Nets Program APL II draft Project Appraisal Document,
  October 31, 2006
· 2003 World Bank Policy Research Working Paper on "Child growth, shocks, and food aid
  in rural Ethiopia".
· Ethiopia Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (Report No. 26275-ET)
· Ethiopia: Public Expenditure Review, June 2004 (Report No. 29338-ET)

Government of Ethiopia

Ethiopia: Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development, July 2002.

PSNP Documents:

· PSNP Programme Implementation Manual (Revised), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
  Development, Addis Ababa, July 2006.
· PSNP Programme Implementation Manual (Abridged for Woreda Level Use), Ministry of
  Agriculture and Rural Development, Addis Ababa, July 2006.
· Financial Management Capacity Assessment Report, FSCB/DFID (Helms Report),
  December 2004.
· PSNP Capacity Enhancement Requirements (Rainbow Report), 2006.
· Rapid Response Team(RRT) Reports
· PSNP Information Centre Resource Transfer Status and Market Reports
· PSNP Financial and Physical Report of 2005 Activities. FSCB March 2006
· Mid-Term Review Report, FSCB, June 1, 2006.
· 2006 PSNP Annual Implementation Report, April 2007.




                                        - 46 -

Other
Gilligan, D. and Hoddinott, J. "Is there Persistence in the Impact of Emergency Food Aid?
Evidence on Consumption, Food Security, and Assets in Rural Ethiopia", American Journal.
Of Agricultural. Economics (2007): 1­18.

Evaluations and Studies (and brief summary of methodology):

· "Summary of the Public Works Review Findings for SNNP, Oromiya, Amhara and Tigray
   Regions", Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with donors, June 2006.
            o Methodology: Interviews with program implementing staff, field visits to 63
                project sites chosen to give an overview of the types of projects implemented.
                Review team comprised of technical staff drawn from government, donors and
                consultants. Survey tools developed and pre-tested. Designed to provide
                technical feedback on performance in the areas of eligibility, appropriateness,
                effectiveness, quality and sustainability. Findings presented in regional reports
                and workshops, then aggregated into a summary report.
Three linked studies:
· "Trends in PSNP Transfers Within Targeted Households", Devereux, S., R. Sabates-
   Wheeler, Mulugeta and Hailemichael (IDS/INDAK), June 2006.
            o Sample frame was comprised of eight woredas, two in each of the four main
                PSNP regions were purposively selected based on criteria of local government
                capacity, cash or food transfers and implementing agency (Government, NGO
                or WFP). Woredas and kebeles were purposively selected based on
                programme characteristics. Households were selected based on stratified
                survey techniques (approximately equal numbers of cash and food
                beneficiaries overall). Three methods of data collection were designed, pre-
                tested, and administered in the field, including a household survey, a
                community questionnaire and market observation. The household survey
                covered 960 households randomly selected. The community survey queried
                community and project specific data. The market survey asked key informants
                about local markets (nearest markets for basic food items and other
                commodities, frequency of market days, seasonality of prices and supplies).

· "Targeting Ethiopia's Productive Safety Net Programme (PSNP)", Sharp, K., Brown, T.
   and Teshome, A. (IDL Group/ODI/A-Z Capacity Building Consult), August 2006
            o Qualitative data collected at woreda, kebele, village and household levels,
                coordinated with the household survey conducted at the same sites by the
                Trends study (above). In each of eight woredas, one kebele and one
                community was visited. Results are indicative, not statistically representative
                of the woreda. Fieldwork carried out in May-June 2006 and questionnaires
                spanned a recall period of about one year. Study results assessed targeting
                design, institutions and processes, outcomes, appeals and grievances, and
                monitoring.

· "PSNP Policy, Programme and Institutional Linkages", Slater, R., S. Ashley, Mulugeta,
   Mengistu and Delelegne (ODI/IDL Group/Indak) September 2006.
            o Study findings were based on (a) a review of policy and programme
                documents; (b) key informant interviews at Federal, regional, woreda and
                kebele levels; (c) focus group interviews of community members,
                disaggregated in many ways, including wealth ranking.



                                           - 47 -

· "Ethiopia Food Security Program: Report on 2006 Baseline Survey", IFPRI 2007
             o The baseline household survey as well as the follow-up impact assessment
                 provides statistically representative information about household
                 characteristics at the level of each of 4 regions. Within each region, a three-
                 stage selection process was followed, selecting first, woredas, from the sample
                 frame of chronically food insecure woredas, then selecting chronically food
                 insecure kebeles from within each selected woreda, and finally selecting
                 households from within each of the selected kebeles. Households were
                 interviewed using systematic random sampling procedure. The data collection
                 instruments included a household questionnaire and a community
                 questionnaire.

· "NGOs Engaging in the Productive Safety Net Programme ­ A Study", September 2006.
             o Key informant interviews with five NGOs: Trocaire/CAFOD, Adigrat Diocese
                 Catholic Secretariat, Relief Society of Tigray, Agri-Service Ethiopia,
                 Harerghe Catholic Secretariat.

· "Evaluation of the Direct Support component of the Productive Safety Net Programme",
    WABEKBON Development Consultants, April 2007
Information was collected from primary and secondary sources. Desk review of secondary
literatures, discussion with program stakeholders, PRA data collection techniques that include
Focus Group Discussion (FGD), key informant interview, and case studies were used. Field
work was carried out in eight woredas from four regions.




                                             - 48 -

Annex 13. Additional Annexes




                              - 49 -

             32°E                                                36°E                                                                                           40°E                                     42°E                               44°E

                                                                                                        ERITREAERITREA                                                                                                                                                        ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                KerenKeren                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                       e                                REP.REP
                                                                                                                                                                                                         d                                OFOF                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                   ETHIOPIA                              To
                                                         To                                                                                                AdigratAdigrat                                    S                      YEMENYEMEN                                            REGION CAPITALS
                                                        GedarefGedaref                   HumeraHumera
          14°N                                                                                          Tekeze                   AxumAxum                                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                           T I G R AY
                                                                                                                                                            MekeleMekele                                                                                                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                                               Ras Dashen
                                                                                                                               Ras Dashen
                                                                                                                               Terara (4620 m)
                                                                                                                                 rara (4620 m)                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS
                                                                              Atbara                                                                                     D e n a k i l                         e                                14°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a



                                                                                                                                                                                       D                                                                                                  RAILROADS

                                                                                                       GonderGonder
                                                                                                       A M H A R A                                                                                                                                                                        REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                                                   Lake                                                                                  A FA R
                                                                 Dinder                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                   Tana
          12°N                                                                                                      DebraDebra                                                                                                                  12°N
                                                                                                                    Tabor
                                                                                                                     abor                      Weldiya
                                                                                                                                                eldiya                                  esert                DJIBDJIB
                                                                                                                                                                                                             DJIBOUTI
                                                                                   Bahir Dar
                                                                                   Bahir Dar                 Blue                                                                       AsayitaAsayita                                                                            46°E                        48°E
                                                    Aba                                                          Nile                                                                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                   DeseDese                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G u     l f    o    f     A       d
                                                     y
                    SUDANSUDAN
                                          BENSHANGULBENSHANGUL
                                          AsosaAsosa                         Hanger                     DebreDebre
                                                                                                        MarkosMarkos                                                         Awash
                                                                                                                      E t h i o p i a n
          10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10°N
                                                                       Didesa                                           P l a t e a u                                                     DIRE DAWA
                                                                                                                                                                                          DIRE DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dire Dawa
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dire Dawa                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                            HarerHarer                    HargeysaHargeysa

                                                       GimbiGimbi               Nekemte
                                                                                Nekemte              ADDIS ABABA
                                                                                                     ADDIS ABABA                       ADDISADDIS                                           HARARIHARARI              Jijiga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jijiga
                                                                                                                                       ABABAABABA                          Awash
                                                                                                                                                                           Aw                                                                                                                SOMALIASOMALIA

                                                                                                                                                    NazretNazret
                                Baro                                                                            Welkite
                                                                                                                 elkite                                                                       Ramis                                                Aware
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Aw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Degeh Bur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Degeh Bur
                                    GambelaGambela        Gore
                                                          Gore                                                                                             O R O M I YA
          8°N             G A M B E L A                                                                                                                   y                                                                                                                                   Domo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Domo                   8°N
                                                                                                                                   AselaAsela      e
                               Akobo                                                     Jima
                                                                                         Jima                    HosainaHosaina                 l l             Shebele

                                                                               BongaBonga                                                      a          Wabe                                                                                                O g a d e n
                                                                                                                                  ShashemeneShashemene
                                                                                                                                       V                                                                                           S O M A L I
                                                                                                     SodoSodo   Aw sa
                                                                                                                Awa                                                       GobaGoba
                                                                                                                                  t               Dodola
                                                                                                                                                  Dodola                                                                                                                  Warder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             arder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kebri Dehar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kebri Dehar
                                                  SOUTHERN NATIONS,
                                                  SOUTHERN NATIONS,                                             Wendo
                                                                                                                   endo          f
                                                                                                                                i                                                                             ImiImi
                                                        NATIONALITESNATIONALITES                                               R

          6°N                                            AND PEOPLES
                                                         AND PEOPLES                                                                                                                        Wabe Gestro
                                                                                                                       t                                                                                                Wabe                                                                                         6°N
                                                                                                                      a                                                                                                           Shebele
                0  50  100 150 200 Kilometers                                                                      r e                                            Genale
                                                                                                                                                NegeleNegele
                0    50     100     150 Miles                                                                    G                                                                                                                                                    FerferTo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                       Yavello
                                                                                                                        avello                               Dawa                                                                                                       MogadishuMogadishu


                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Odo
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Odo                                                                                                          IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                       Lake                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
          4°N                                                                                                                  MegaMega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                   4°N     33405
JUNE                                              Turkana                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                          INDIAN

    2007         UGANDAUGANDA                                                      KENYAKENY                                                    MoyaleMoyale
                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                   To                                                                                                                       OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
             32°E              34°E                              36°E                                           38°E             To
                                                                                                                                 To                                               Wa
                                                                                                                                                                                  Wajir                                                                                                                                           R1
                                                                                                                               MarsabitMarsabit                 40°E                                     42°E  MogadishuMogadishu           44°E                                  46°E                        48°E

