                                                                                                             94397
Ethiopia: Public Works and Grants Create Safety Net                                                       August 29, 2009



                                                                    Links:
                                                                    - What is IDA?
                                                                    - Our Work in Ethiopia


                                                                    More on Ethiopia:
                                                                    - Borrowing History
                                                                    - Data & Statistics
                                                                    - Research
                                                                    - Contact Us




  For a quarter-century, images of severe drought and widespread starvation have become
  relentlessly linked with Ethiopia. Today, food insecurity remains a defining feature of rural poverty
  in the country—and has actually worsened in recent years. Most vulnerable households work as
  subsistence farmers on small plots of degraded land, and are subject to the vicissitudes of
  weather. Each day, they manage hunger, extreme hardship, and multiple sources of uncertainty.




  The IDA-financed Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP) was launched in 2005 to help the
  country shift from an emergency relief system to a more effective development-oriented safety
  net. Phase II, running from 2007–09, worked to consolidate the gains. Both projects were
  designed to increasingly provide cash rather than food support. The first step was to create
  labor-intensive public works so people could earn money and solve their own food insecurity.
  Next, at-risk households—including orphans, pregnant mothers, the elderly, and people living
  with HIV/AIDS—were identified and given grants. The project was designed to mesh with the
  government’s Household Asset Building Program.




  The project reached 5 million chronically food-insecure people in 2005, expanded to more
  than 7 million in 2006 and currently covers 7.6 million rural inhabitants. Up to 192 million
  paid workdays have been generated through community projects that address some of
  the roots of food insecurity by rehabilitating severely degraded land and creating
  productive community assets—such as terraced fields, feeder roads, and small-scale
  irrigation systems. The project played a vital role in warding off famine in 2008.


  Highlights:
  - Food security improved among participating households, as measured by self-reported caloric
  intake.
  - Individual asset bases grew as project beneficiaries used their cash transfers to invest in
  farming inputs and livestock.
  - Agricultural productivity increased, according to an impact evaluation that showed the project
  reinforced the government’s Household Asset Building Program by enabling participants to take
  risks, such as accessing credit, to boost outputs. Households benefiting from both programs
experienced a 38 percent increase in maize yields.
- Community water supplies were improved through construction of conservation measures that
reduced surface runoff, increased infiltration, and raised groundwater levels, thereby enhancing
springs and raising stream base-flows. In several communities, springs persist longer into the dry
season. The number of domestic water supplies has doubled.
- Family health benefited on two fronts. Up to 87 percent of households reported better health
from access to more secure water supplies, while an estimated 73 percent reported higher
incomes that allowed them to use health services more than in the previous year.


Trial by Fire: In 2008, Ethiopia faced a potentially devastating crisis from a vicious circle of
drought, food shortages and high food prices. An estimated 12 million people were affected. The
Productive Safety Net Program was a major part of the government’s response in rural areas.
The project used its contingency budget of US$40 million to provide urgent assistance to almost
1.5 million individuals outside of the project, permitting people to survive until the next harvest. In
a dire emergency, the new approach proved effective—providing a safety net for millions of
Ethiopia’s rural poor.




Phase I of the Productive Safety Net Program was launched in 2005. IDA contributed US$113.7
million (US$70 million in new funding, plus US$43.7 million in cost savings rechanneled from the
Ethiopia Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project).


Phase II launched in 2007. Of a total project cost of US$1,040 million, IDA contributed US$200
million. The project drew on the Bank's global experience in safety net design and collaborated
with the government in adapting insights to the Ethiopian context.




The Productive Safety Net Program was funded by a large consortium of international donors.
Phase II partners include the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (US$
138.5 million), the European Commission (US$187.8 million), the Canadian International
Development Agency (US$72.5 million), Irish Aid (US$44.2 million), the Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency (US$23.0 million), RNE (US$ 34.8), USAID (US$314.2 million
equivalent), and the World Food Program (US$25.1 million). The government of Ethiopia
provided in-kind contributions through program supervision and management support.




A third phase, subject to approval, focuses on integrating the Productive Safety Net Program
with other key government programs to make even more progress in reducing food insecurity.




Productive Safety Net Project - Phase I (2004-06), II (2007-10)
Project documents: Phase I, Phase II




                                                       Last updated: 2009-08-29
