Dowment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4301-HU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$64.0 MILLION
TO THE
HUNGARTAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
POWER PROJECT
April 28, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985        March 1986
Currency Unit   =        Forint (Ft)
US$1             =       Ft 49.90             Ft 46.0
Ft 1            =        US$0.020             US$0.021
An exchange rate of Ft 45  = $1 was used in the appraisal report.
Hungarian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
MW = 1,000 kilowats
GWh = Gigawatt hour = 1,000,000 kWh
toe = 1 tonne of oil equivalent
kWh = 1 kilowatt hour = 1,000 watt hours
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AEEF        -       State Authority for Energy Management and Energy Safety
AFB         -       State Development Bank
CMEA        -       Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (Comecon)
IAEA        -       International Atomic Energy Agency
IPM         -       Ministry of Industry
LRAIC       -       Long-Run Average Incremental Cost
LRMC        -       Long-Run Marginal Cost
MVMT        -       Hungarian Electric Power Trust
MNB                 National Bank of Hungary
OAA         -       National Office for Materials and Prices
OEGH        -       National Energy Authority
OKGT        -       Hungarian National Oil and Gas Trust
OT          -       National Planning Office
PM          -       Ministry of Finance



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
POWER PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Sumary
Borrower:       The Hungarian People's Republic
Beneficiary:    Hungarian Electric Power Trust (MVMT)
Amount:         US$64.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate
Relend'n
Terms:          Loan proceeds would be onlent to MVMT for a period of 15 years
including three years of grace at a rate equal to at least the
Bank's rate plus a 30X mark-up which includes a fee for the
foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower. MVMT will
reimburse all commitment charges paid by the Borrower.
Proiect
Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) increase
the utilization of domestic coal, thus saving imported energy;
(b) assist MIMT in allocating its scarce investment resources
efficiently and strengthen its institution building efforts;
(c) reduce air pollution; and (d) assist in the transfer of
modern technology. The project is a seven-year time slice of
MVMT's 1986-1993 reconstruction and rehabilitation program and
would have the following project components: (a) the
reconstruction of existing coal-fired power stations; (b) the
upgrading of transmission and distribution systems;
(c) technical assistance aimed at assisting KVMT to enhance
its planning, management and operations.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:      When completed, the proposed project would enable MVMT to use
low quality domestic coal supplied to the power plants,
produce operational economies in power generation and heat
supply, increase the output, availability, reliability and of
the life expectancy of existing coal-fired power plants and
transmission and distribution systems. The project would be
the least cost means of meeting the demand for electricity
during the period 1989-1993 and would delay major new nuclear
and lignite investments.  Non-quantifiable benefits are the
reduction of dust emissions and improvement of the planning,
managerial and training capabilities of HVMT. The potential
risks are possible lower electricity demand, higher coal costs
and insufficient coal supply. However, if demand for
electricity is lower than expected, the nuclear and lignite
investments can be further delayed. Furthermore, the risk of
increased coal prices is not significant since the project
would still be economically viable under a 35S increase in the
price of coal. Finally, adequate safeguards for ensuring coal
supplies have been incorporated in the project.
This document has a stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorination.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                               Local    Foreign     Total
US $ Million
Reconstruction                             269.0     100.4       369.4
Upgrading & Rehabilitation                  32.8      20.0        52.8
Technical Assistance                         0.2       1.8         2.0
Base Cost                               302.0     122.2      424.2
Physical Contingency                        30.3      12.2        42.5
Price Contingency                           93.8      38.2       132.0
Interest during construction                  -       21.3        21.3
Total Project Cost                      426.1     193.9       620.0
Financing Plan:                                Local    Foreign     Total
US $ Million
World Bank                                   -        64.0        64.0
HVMT                                       426.1     129.9       556.0
Total                                   426.1     193.9       620.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY    1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993
US $ million
Annual        5.4     12.2      15.4     12.5      9.2       5.7      3.6
Cumulative    5.4     17.6      33.0     45.5     54.7      60.4    64.0
Economic Rate of Return:  12 percent.
APpraisal Report: No. 5927-HU, dated April 23, 1986.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hungarian People's Republic for the equivalent of US$64 million to
help finance a power project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. The loan
proceeds would be onlent to the Hungarian Electric Power Trust (MVMT) for a
period of 15 years including 3 years of grace at an interest rate equal to at
least the Bank rate plus a 30S mark-up which includes a fee for the foreign
exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower. MVMT would reimburse all
commitment charges paid by the Borrower.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.      Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report
No. 4174-HU). An updating Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5006-HU)
and a Power and Coal Subsector Review (Report No. 4746b-HU) were distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 13 and October 24, 1984, respectively.
An Economic Mission visited Hungary in June 1985. Its findings have been
distributed to the Executive Directors (Report No. 5951-HU dated 'March 12,
1986). Country social and economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.      The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment and
production decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war period when,
as in other socialist countries in Eastern Europe, planning was based on
physical targets and central administrative directives. Since 1968, reform
of the economic system has been pursued to increase efficiency both by
strengthening the influence of market forces on enterprise activities, and by
developing a system of "economic regulators" through which the State can
indirectly guide overall economic activity.
4.       In the period 1978-80, Hungary embarked on a program of adjustment
in two phases. First, the authorities placed priority on external
stabilization in order to restore a balance of payments equilibrium and come
to grips with a large burden of external debt. Second, in late 1978, the
Government reaffirmed its comfitment to the structural economic reforms which
had been initiated in 1968 but largely suspended since the early 1970s.
While the objectives of both external stabilization and structural adjustment
were embraced simultaneously, stabilization remained the main preoccupation
at least through 1983. More recently, however, the authorities have
acknowledged that sustained balance of payments equilibrium can be
facilitated by an accelerated pace of structural adjustment to improve
competitiveness and generate export-led growth. Consistent with this, the
Hungarian authorities have been designing a series of economic reforms which



- 2 -
are more wide-ranging than any taken to date; implementation of some of these
reforms began in 1985 but the full package is scheduled to be carried out
within the current (1986-90) Five-Year Plan period. During 1985 the external
account again has become strained; the major challenge before the authorities
in the next few years, therefore, will be to manage domestic demand while
continuing the needed liberalization of the economy through the reform
process (para. 17 through para. 19).
Structural Features of the Economy
5.       The "Socialist" sector, comprising state enterprises, state farms
and agricultural cooperatives, accounts for nearly 902 of GDP in Hungary.
Although private activity has been evident for some time in trade and service
activities, it is most important in agriculture, where, for certain products,
output from private holdings constitutes a large share of the total.
6.       The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are:  (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (411 in
1984, with 39% of total employment), compared with most developing countries;
(b) a predominance of heavy industry in total industrial output (671 in
1984), reflecting an emphasis common to many socialist countries; (c) a
relatively large proportion of the labor force employed in agriculture (221
in 1984) compared to industrial market economies; there is, in fact,
significant scope for growth of labor productivity and further shifts of
labor out of this sector; and (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign
trade (about 411). Hungary's dependence on trade makes it vulnerable to
fluctuations in international trade and prices, and is a principal argument
in favor of reforms aimed at increasing the adaptability of the economy to
changes in world markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy
consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry. The
importance of industry in total production also implies that Hungary's
overall prospects for growth and balance of payments equilibrium depend on
the ability to compete in foreign markets. While manufactures constitute a
major share of total exports (641 in 1984), they are more significant with
respect to exports to countries belonging to the Council of Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA). Agricultural commodities and raw materials represent
major shares of exports to convertible currency markets (about 301 and 351,
respectively).
7.      Hungary's labor force declined by 0.31 p.a. during the period
1975-84. There is a growing perception of a labor shortage in Hungary, which
has created pressure to economize on labor, adopt modern techniques to raise
labor productivity, and shift labor into the more efficient activities.
The Stabilization Program, 1978-84
8.      Hungary's external account imbalance peaked in 1978 with a $1.2
billion trade deficit. The burden of foreign debt in convertible currencies
reached $7.6 billion (461 of GDP), in contrast to only $1.1 billion in 1970.
These developments resulted in large part from rapid increases in investment,
delays in adjusting domestic prices (especially for energy), and
deterioration in international terms of trade. The stabilization program
started in 1979 has relied mainly on cuts in investment to curb domestic
absorption and on restraint of convertible currency imports.



- 3 -
9.      The controls on domestic aggregate demand resulted in a steady
improvement in the balance of convertible currency trade, which shifted into
surplus by 1980. However, the concurrent rise in interest rates and
deterioration of banking confidence in Eastern Europe caused a financial
crisis in the convertible currency account in 1982, when the withdrawal of
short-term credits during the first quarter of the year reduced reserves to
barely one month of convertible currency imports of goods and services. In
1983 and 1984, the Government successfully regained external liquidity and
rebuilt depleted reserves by two means.  First, the stabil_zation program was
strengthened after 1982 within the framework of two IMF Standby Arrange-
ments 1, which were successfully implemented, resulting in the generation
of $0.3 billion surpluses in the convertible currency current account in 1983
and 1984 (equivalent to about 81 of convertible currency merchandise
imports). Second, the improvement of the external account restored the
confidence of the international capital markets in Hungary, leading to an
increasing availability of loans from commercial banks. Medium and long term
capital inflows from comnercial banks during the 1983-85 period totalled
about $6.9 billion, including $1 billion raised through World Bank
cofinancing.
10.     Thus, Hungary's determined pursuit of its stabilization objectives
has contributed to its restored access to external loans and has enabled debt
servicing obligations to be met. Nevertheless, the emphasis on restriction
of demand has entailed costs in terms of GDP growth, which was only 1.8S per
year on average between 1978-84, in contrast to 5S in the 1970s. 2-
Resumption of Economic Reform
11.     While adopting stabilization measures, the Government resumed
systemic reforms to make enterprises more responsible for production and
investment decisions and to ensure that these decisions reflected
market-based signals ("economic regulators"-prices, taxation, wage policy
and interest rates) rather than central directives. The ultimate intention
of the reforms is to raise the overall efficiency of the economy by
increasing the enterprise managers' concern for profitability, and by
shifting resources to their more productive uses.
12.     The main elements of reform between 1980-84 were the following:
(a) A major change in the system of pricing was instituted in 1980 to
link certain domestic prices to export prices in convertible
currency markets, thereby reducing the scope of "cost-plus"
price-setting. Unadministered (free market) pricing has since been
extended to about half of industrial output (excluding food
processing);
'  An IMF standby arrangement (for $525 million) and a compensatory
financing facility (for $80 million) were approved by the IMF in
December 1982. A second standby arrangement (for $425 million) was
approved in January 1984. No further standby arrangement is currently
contemplated.
Zo Total GDP growth includes the effect of customs duties and valuation,
which declined by 5X annually from 1978-84.



(b) The system of wage regulation was revised in 1983 to allow greater
wage differentials and thereby more closely link rewards to
performance;
(c) Legal provision was made in 1982 to facilitate the establishment of
new enterprises and business associations as a means to stimulate
competition;
(d) In 1982-83, measures were adopted to permit the issuance of bonds by
firms, thus increasing the scope for reallocation of investment
resources.
13.     Although each of these reform elements represented a significant
break from past practice, they did not result in increasing substantially the
profit-mindedness of enterprises. The limited effectiveness of the 1980-84
phase of reforms indicated that partial modifications in only certain aspects
of the economic system would not change the behavior of firms as long as
managers could bargain with authorities over enterprise-specific regulations.
and a lack of genuine competition precluded the discipline of the market. At
the same time, there appeared a conflict between the desire to decentralize
economic decision-making for purposes of efficiency, on the one hand, and the
urgency of managing domestic demand for external balance, on the other, which
appeared to call for the maintenance of administrative controls. Yet another
source of tension underlying the reform process has been the official
comuituent to minimize the social costs of adjustment, in particular by
containing consumer price inflation.
Expanded Reform Program (1985-90)
14.     The experiences of 1978-84 underlined the need to make longer-term
structural adjustments to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of the
economy. Thus, external equilibrium could be achieved through more dynamic
export performance without sacrificing growth of output. Highest priority in
the 1986-90 Plan has therefore been given to increasing the competitiveness
of the country's manufactures in the convertible currency market and to
reducing imports of energy and raw materials. Raising the levels of
convertible currency exports will call for greater efficiency in production
and improved product quality; both objectives depend on an upgrading of the
country's industrial capital stock, much of which is outdated and based on
technologies which use relatively high levels of energy, labor and other
inputs. As the economic performance in 1985 has been disappointing, (para.
17-19), there is a need both for a more flexible macroeconomic management and
to move urgently towards systemic economic reform, to promote external
balance with growth.
15.     To meet these requirements, the authorities launched a more
extensive phase of economic reforms in 1985. The current stage of reform is
planned to continue the transition to a market-based setting of prices and
wages; a further increase in competition among enterprises; improvement of
their financial discipline and control; and fostering the mobility of
productive resources, through an integrated package of policy actions (see
Part III).



16.     To increase competition, both foreign and domestic, measures
intitiated in 1985 focus on allowing greater freedom of entry and exit in
industrial and trading operations, and on liberalizing foreign trade. The
development of a competitive environment will tend to enhance financial
discipline and autonomy of enterprises. Further actions to realize this
objective center, first, on the introduction of a new self-management system
which limits direct state intervention in enterprise decision-making.
Second, the fiscal code has been revised to make taxation more predictable
and objective and allow enterprises greater discretion in the use of profit
reserves. Whereas the tax reforms also serve to encourage the reallocation
of productive resources, institutional changes in the banking system and
financial intermediation are to be the direct vehicles for carrying out this
redistribution. These changes 'hill also permit monetary instruments to be
used more effectively for macroeconomic adjustments, thereby reducing the
excessive reliance on fiscal interventions which tend to penalize profitable
firms.
Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects
17.      Performance in 1985.  While the above efforts were being initiated,
in 1985 the economy experienced a severe slowdown. This development
reflected the adverse effects of the harsh winter; a poor performance of
exports to the convertible currency area, accompanied by deterioration in
terms of trade; and a slowdown in aggregate investment. GDP is estimated to
have declined by 0.5X in 1985, in contrast to a growth of 2.6Z in 1984.
Preliminary figures indicate that output of the manufacturing sector fell by
about 0.81 and construction olttput by 7S. Agricultural production also
declined by 5.31, largely as a result of a 7Z drop in livestock production.
18.     The current account in convertible currencies showed a deficit of
about $0.5 billion in 1985, a disappointing development after two consecutive
years of current account surpluses. At the same time, the current account
balance for non-convertible currency trade moved from a perennial deficit to
a surplus of about $0.4 billion in 1985. The sharp rise of foreign exchange
reserves in 1985 ($0.9 billion), combined with reserve increases in the
previous two years, brought total convertible currency reserves to over 6
months of imports by the end of 1985. This high level of reserves gives the
Government considerable room for maneuver in managing its external balances,
but provides no grounds for complacency.
19.     While facing strains in its convertible currency account, since 1983
Hungary has had also to cope with stagnating or declining supplies of the
favorably-priced oil and raw materials imports from socialist countries and
deteriorating terms of trade in nonconvertible currency transactions. In
addition, lines of credit to finance trade deficits in nonconvertible
currency have been curtailed. Hungary has been required to increase exports
to the nonconvertible currency area and to reduce its debt, which amounted to
about $1.3 billion at end-1985. Nonconvertible currency exports in real
terms increased by more than 7% p.a. during the 1982-85 period, which has put
press-ire on supplies of merchandise which could be directed to convertible
currency markets.



- 6 -
20.     External Debt.  In December 1984, Hungary's total convertible
currency debt was $8.8 billion (of which $7.4 billion was medium- and
long-term), representing about 43X of GDP. This debt again rose in 1985,
reaching a record level of $12.0 billion by December, which was partially
offset by the $0.9 billion increase in reserves mentioned above. Government
policy aims at lengthening the average debt maturity and limiting the
expansion of short-term borrowing. The maturity structure of medium and long
term debt has improved considerably since 1982; nevertheless, about half of
this debt will mature within 3 years, calling for continuing careful debt
management-.
21.     Hungary's convertible currency debt service in 1985 amounted to $3.0
billion.  The debt-service ratio -' has risen from 41S in 1984 to 56S in
1985. The sharp rise in the debt service ratio in 1985 reflects several
factors unique to 1985. First, about $300 million in debt service payments
were amortization of debt due after 1985, and were part of the Government's
efforts to develop a more fa7orable debt structure. Excluding these early
payments brings the convertible currency debt service ratio down to 51X.
Second, as noted above, export performance was poor in 1985. Third,
borrowing increased sharply as Hungary sought to take advantage of the
favorable terms available in international capital markets to build up
reserves and restructure its debt. While Hungary may prepay debt in the
future, it does not plan to increase net borrowing in thoc medium term.  The
developments in 1985 highlight the importance of improved export
performance. The main thrust of the economic reform effort is to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, which should lead to more
rapid export growth. As the economic reform program takes hold, the
convertible currency debt service ratio is expected to decline to 30-35X by
the end of the decade.
22.     Medium-term Outlook.  Weak external demand for Hungarian exports,
combined with policies aimed at curbing aggregate domestic demand, will
probably keep GDP growth for 1985-90 at an average rate of about 2-2.5Z p.a.
Growth of consumption-and that of total domestic absorption-are to be held
below the growth of output. Since Hungary's population is approximately
stationary, even this low growth of consumption would permit some improvement
in per capita living standards. Government policies aim at reversing the
fall in investment, with a moderate growth of gross domestic investment
(about 31 annually) projected for the rest of the 1980s. The authorities
have adopted an annual inflation ceiling of 5X for the 1986-90 period to
protect real wages-a target which could, however, constrain the progress of
economic reform and macroeconomic adjustment.
23.     Bank projections indicate that it may be possible to ease the
restrictions of the stabilization program toward the end of the decade,
although some restraint on aggregate demand will have to be maintained to
ensure positive current account balances. The favorable impact of the
economic reforms on the country's economic growth path will become more
apparent toward the end of the decade. The industrial sector is expected to
Amortization plus interest payments on medium and long term convertible
currency debt, divided by exports of goods and services. The total debt
service ratio for both convertible and non-convertible debt was about
30X in 1985.



- 7 -
be the leading beneficiary of the reforms and to grow at an average rate of
about 3S during 1986-90. A lower average rate of growth is projected for the
agricultural sector (2-2.5S).
24.      External Capital Requirements.  Bank projections for the 1986-90
period indicate that Hungary's annual amortization of its convertible
currency medium and long term debt will average about $1.6 billion (including
repayments to the IMF). If stabilization efforts continue to be successful
and further deficits in the current account can be avoided, gross medium and
long term capital inflow requirements will be on the order of $1.5 billion
per year. The Bank expects to provide some of those capital needs with the
remainder financed by commercial banks.
Assessment of Country Performance
25.      The policy dialogue at both the macro and micro levels between
Hungarian authorities and the Bank has been fruitful. Notwithstanding the
difficulties currently facing Hungary's economy, the high level of reserves
and the Government's record in stabilizing the economy and managing its
external finances in the early 1980s provide grounds for cautious optimism
regarding the macroeconomic situation. The overriding issue at the present
time concerns the conflicts in policy objectives which the Government faces
in the short run: namely, the pressures to protect real wages and planned
investment levels, as against the need to implement an active exchange rate
and trade policy to help improve the country's external accounts further,
liberalize pricing, restrain aggregate demand, and institute flexibility in
economic manAgement. The Government officials have indicated that they are
prepared to take appropriate action if the conditions underlying the 1985
performance prove to be more than transitory. Although the anticipated
growth rate for the economy for the rest of the decade is relatively low, the
economic reform program to which Hungary is committed, and which the proposed
project would support, should strengthen its growth path during the 1990s.
In sm, given the country's performance to date in managing aggregate demand
and its continued resolve to achieve external balance and pursue needed
systemic reforms, Hungary is considered creditworthy for additional Bank
lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
26.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$867.4 million for fourteen loans (including six 'B' loan participations in
comnercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture,
energy and transport.
27.      The Hungarian Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention
on structural adjustment in the productive sectors: agriculture, industry,
energy and transport. The Bank concurs with this selection of priorities and
is supporting Hungary's structural adjustment process through project-based
lending aimed at export generation; import substitution, particularly in the
energy sector, through increased domestic production and conservation; plant
upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through more



efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity and product quality;
and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of enterprise
activities and encourage more efficient industries to produce components.
28.     The Hungarian Government has looked to the Bank in the past to
assist them in expanding their access to external capital markets. In _his
respect, the Bank was a successful catalyst in mobilizing six commercial
cofinancing syndications, a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million
equivalent Japanese Yen loan in 1983 for the Grain Storage and Mechanization
and the Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation projects; a 385
million Eurodollar loan and a $93 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan in
1984 for the Industrial Export and Restructuring and the Petroleum projects;
and a 300 million Eurodollar loan and a $120 million equivalent Japanese yen
loan in 1985 for the Integrated Livestock, Fine Chemicals and Transport
projects. The Bank's participation in these syndications under the new
cofinancing arrangements amounted to $30 million and $8.8 million equivalent,
respectively, for the first two projects, $35 million and $12.2 million
equivalent, respectively, for the next two projects, and $36 million and $14
million equivalent for the last two projects. In all these cofinancing
operations, the Bank was able to improve the terms over the most recent
Hungarian borrowings and to introduce the country to commercial banks from
which it had not borrowed previously.
Bank Lending Strategy
29.     The Bank expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned
economic and sector work covers energy, industry, agriculture, financial
sector and foreign trade. The Bank nas already reviewed the coal and power
subsectors, the industrial sector, the chemical subsector and the transport
sector. These sector studies are providing policy inputs for the Bank's
dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when further
reforms are being introduced in the Hungarian economy to increase the impact
of market forces and enterprise autonomy. Discussions have already been
initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the Bank drew the
Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using interest rebates
as an incentive system. Following subsequent discussions the authorities
eliminated the system of interest rebates starting January 1, 1984. Training
through EDI was initiated with a first course on the financial and economic
evaluation of projects, held in early January 1984 in Budapest. Two
procurement seminars and a seminar on grain inflow-outflow analysis to
determine storage requirements have also been held in Budapest. They were
received with much interest by the Hungarian authorities who requested
further cooperation in this area.  Consequently, an EDI seminar on structural
adjustment was held in mid-January 1985 in Budapest, and a further
procurement seminar in June 1985.
30.      The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 14X of
Hungary's total projected convertible debt in 1990, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 9% by that time.



- 9 -
31.      Hungary has signed the Articles of Agreement of IDA and IFC on
April 29, 1985. IFC is exploring possible investments in Hungary. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1985.
PART III.  THE ENERGY SECTOR
Resource Base
32.      Hungary's energy resources consist mainly of coal, natural gas, and
oil. Coal reserves amount to about 715 million tons of oil equivalent (Mtoe)
and consist of lignite (230 Mtoe), brown coal (275 Mtoe), and black coal (210
Mtoe).  With the exception of lignite deposits at Bukkabrany and Torony, all
coal basins are being mined. The low quality of Hungarian coal, and the
increasingly difficult mining conditions present a serious constraint to
greatly increased production.
33.      Proven oil reserves amount to about 20 million tons and natural gas
reserves to 90 Mtoe, of which 15 Mtoe consists of gas with a high inert
content and consequent low heat value. There is an 80Z probability that 130
million tons of oil and 325 Mtoe of gas could be added to the resource base.
Domestic production of oil and gas is insufficient to meet demand and 74X of
oil and 37X of gas requirements were imported in 1984, mainly from the USSR.
34.      Other energy resources are hydroelectricity (0.9 Mtoe),
low-temperature geothermal water (1.3 Mtoe), firewood (0.6 Mtoe), and
agricultural crop residues (0.5 Mtoe). Despite the limited potential impact
on total energy supply of these resources, their exploitation can produce
small but valuable savings in imported energy which the Government is
encouraging through its energy rationalization program. Significant uranium
deposits exist in southern Hungary which are mined for export to the USSR.
Sector Organization
35.      The energy sector is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Industry (IPM). Within the Ministry, the National Energy Authority (OEGH)
coordinates energy sector activities. The main energy supply enterprises are
the Hungarian Electric Power Trust (MVMT), the Hungarian National Oil and Gas
Trust (OKGT), the seven coal mining companies and the municipalities involved
in heat supply.
36.      Other Government agencies are also involved in the formulation of
energy policy and the regulation of energy sector enterprises. As part of
its mandate for preparing indicative national five-year and annual plans, the
National Planning Office (OT) influences the energy subsectors aggregate
investment and the selection of major projects, and monitors proiect
implementation. The National Office for Materials and Prices (OAA), in
consultation with the economic ministries and interests concerned, regulates
energy prices and sets producer and consumer prices of all fuels and
electricity with the approval of the Council of Min sters.  The Ministry of
Finance (PM) regulates taxes and other flows to the state unique to energy
enterprises and finances investments decided at Government level through the
State Development Bank (AFB). Other investments initiated and financed by
the energy enterprises themselves (which are usually small in the case of the
power subsector) are financed through internal resources and the National
Bank of Hungary (MNB).



- 1.0 -
37.       The Hungarian energy economy is modest in size, with annual energy
consumption totalling about 30 Mtoe in 1984. Of this, oil currently
constitutes about 29Z, natural gas and manufactured gases 201, coal 201,
electricity 131, and district heat and process steam 191. Net energy imports,
mainly crude oil, natural gas, electricity, coking coal and coke accounted for
about 4$1 of domestic consumption, and at about $1.0 billion in 1984, claimed
121 of Hungary's total export earnings.
38.      Energy Supply. Consumption and Strategy.  Per capita consumption of
energy in Hungary at 2.8 toe (1980) is substantially below the average for
Eastern European economies (4.4 toe in 1980). Nevertheless, and despite a
sustained decline throughout the 1970s, Hungary's intensity of energy
consumption (1.5 toe per $1,000 GDP in 1984), though lowest among the Eastern
European economies, continues to be substantially higher than that of most
industrial market economies. Industry consumed about 461, household 29%, and
other sectors, including agriculture, transport, construction and services,
25X.
39.      Driven by the need to meet the energy requirements of a capital and
energy-intensive industrial investment program, and protected initially from
the 1973 oil shock by the low-cost energy supplies from the USSR, annual
energy consumption and imports grew between 1970 and 1978 at an average rate
of 4.11 and 6.61, respectively. Recognizing the need to contain energy
consumption, imports and the investment needs for meeting energy demand, the
Government initiated in 1980 an effective demand management program by
increasing energy prices to consumers other than households, incentives for
conservation and interfuel substitution, and a mandatory system of permits.
Together with a shift in the structure of industrial output, this has been
successful in reducing the growth of energy consumption to only 0.41 per year
during 1978-84. As a result, the energy intensity declined at an average rate
of 4.3Z per annum. With the expected continuing decline in energy intensity
of GDP. gross energy consumption is projected to increase at an annual rate of
only 1.41 during 1985-2000. The other element of the energy policy,
increasing domestic energy production especially for coal, oil, natural gas
and nuclear power, has been only moderately successful, mainly due to the
difficulty in increasing coal production. Domestic energy production is
expected to increase annually at a rate of 2.31 during 1985-2000, with most of
this increase being accounted for by nuclear power. Hungary's dependence on
imported energy would decline slightly to 40X of consumption at the end of the
century.
40.       Energy Pricing.  The prices charged to producers for petroleum
products, natural gas, and electricity are at or above their economic cost.
Coal prices are substantially below economic cost. Energy prices charged for
households, with the exception of gasoline, have long been substantially below
their economic costs. Consumer energy prices were increased in January 1985
for petroleum products, natural gas, coal and coal products and electricity.
As a consequence of these increases and the fall in international prices, the
prices of natural gas and petroleum prices for household consumers are now at
or above economic cost. Household coal and electricity prices are still below
their economic costs.



- 11 -
41.      These distortions to the absolute and relative prices of fuels have
resulted in a switch from petroleum fuels to electricity, natural gas and
solid fuels and in the high growth of household energy consumption. Economic
pricing of fuel inputs for all producers including electricity generation, and
of electricity prices to all users would be addressed under the proposed
project. Under the proposed project, the Government has agreed to carrv out
by January 31, 1987 a study on energy pricing under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. The study would evaluate the impact of energy
prices on the national budget and the balance of payments, energy demand and
investment, and incomes of consumers, designed to achieve further development
of the energy sector in accordance with the Government's objectives. This
study would assist the Government in formulating and implementing an energy
pricing strategy aimed at improving economic efficiency of energy use, and in
preparing a plan of action to eliminate distortions in consumer energy prices,
taking into account its policies on incomes, housing, energy conservation and
interfuel substitution. Following the completion of the study, and after an
exchange of views with the Bank, the Government would take all necessary
measures to keep producer energy prices in line with economic costs based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the study.
MVM!
42.      MVMT, which is responsible for electricity supply, comprises 22
member enterprises (11 power stations, a power station maintenance company, a
national transmission company, six distribution companies and three companies
for finance of investment, civil engineering work, and erection of power
station equipment). It supplies about 67% of the country's electricity
requirements, the remainder consisting of imports (30%) and generation by
captive industrial plants (3%). In addition, its power stations satisfy 80%
of the heat requirements of municipal district heating systems and of the heat
purchased by industry in the form of process steam or hot water.
43.      MWfT is under a general manager, who is appointed by the Ministry of
Industry (IPM). He is assisted by two deputy general managers appointed by
him in accordance with the policy of increasing the autonomy of state
enterprises. The general manager is advised by a board of directors,
comprising the deputy geneial managers, the directors of the member
enterprises, and representatives of its employees, of the power industry trade
union, and of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party.
44.      Though the member enterprises of MVMT are supposed to have a large
measure of autonomy and control over their own affairs, and more recently
greater freedom to determine wages and salaries (within the nationally
prescribed scales) and award bonuses as incentives to efficiency, they
function essentially as operating units of MVMT. They are well organized and
managed, with competent and well-qualified staff.
45.       There seems to be overmanning and inefficient use of manpower in
MVMT power stations, even allowing for a larger number of relatively small
generating units in the MVMT system. MVMT is constrained in improving the
situation by an incentive and wage system which guarantees a minimum reward
irrespective of performance, and places a ceiling on the total increase in the
annual wage bill. This is because employment matters are controlled by



- 12 -
workers' councils and the Government's main concern with social objectives.
Giving preeminence to MVMT management over the workers council in making
personnel decisions, including awarding higher bonuses to and promoting better
career prospects for outstanding performers, and giving enterprises the right
to dismiss incompetent staff, would help to increase labor productivity.
Trends in Electricity Consumption
46.       The consumption of electricity since 1975 has grown faster than the
consumption of total energy, at an average rate of about 4.51 p.a., compared
to about 22 for total energy, mainly due to strong household and services
demand. While the rate of growth of industrial consumption declined from 4.11
p.a. during 1970-75 to onLy l.9Z p.a. during 1980-84, the industrial sector is
still the largest consumer of electricity accounting for 50Z of total. While
the shift in the pattern of consumption from industry to services can be
accounted for by changes in the economic structure, the relatively high growth
rates for households are strongly influenced by low electricity prices.
47.      MVMT power stations accounted for 95.5Z of the national production
of electricity in 1984 and 971 of the production on the interconnected
system. Net imports of electricity, mainly from the Soviet Union, amounted to
10,269 GWh in 1984, or 30% of the national production of electricity
(excluding use within power stations) of 34,293 GWh. Imports have accounted
for a growing share of electricity supply. Hungary is interconnected with all
neighboring countries.
48.      During the period 1985-1990, the consumption of electricity in
Hungary is forecast to increase at an average rate of 3.31. Industry's share
is expected to decline to 451 of final electricity consumption by the end of
the century as compared to 501 in 1984. This is a consequence of improved
industrial energy efficiency brought about by economic pricing of energy,
supported by other energy conservation measures, and due to a shift in the
structure of industrial output away from energy-intensive heavy industry.
During the sam period, household share of consumption is expected to increase
from 231 to 261. The peak demand for electricity is forecast by the
Government to increase at 3.5% p.a. during the period 1985-1990, compared to
4.1X p.a. during the period 1980-1985, from 6,250 MW in 1985 to 7,420 MW in
2000. Despite some uncertainties regarding sectoral demand elasticities, the
electricity demand forecasts appear reasonable.
49.       Future Supply and Investment.  Other than the reconstruction program
included in the project, future options for power generation to meet the
forecast demand in the early 1990s include a 4 x 440 MW extension to the Paks
nuclear plant, a 8 x 250 MW lignite station at Bukkabrany and a joint
Czechoslovakia-Hungary Gabcikovo-Nagymaros hydroelectric plant on the Danube,
from which about 440 MW would be available for Hungary.
50.      According to the Government's evaluation, the 440 MW nuclear and
lignite options are of equal economic merit,and the nuclear power option would
be preferable to the lignite plants if environmental considerations are taken
into account. While additional studies would be needed to verify this
evaluation, the general question of nuclear versus lignite options would be
addressed as part of the study of least-cost power investment program (see
para. 54 below).



- 13 -
Electricity Subsector Issues and Policies
51.      The major sectoral issues relate to MVMT's autonomy, investment
planning, investment financing and electricity pricing. Like all state
enterprises, MVMT is subject to state supervision and control with respect to
investments, pricing and finance. In view of the strategic nature of the
energy sector, MVMT's autonomy is circumscribed in practice.
52.      Enterprise Autonomy.  Hungary is promoting economic reforms to
ensure efficient allocation of resources through decentralized decision-raking
and increased responsibility for enterprise managers in both production and
investment decisions. To promote MVMT's autonomy in a manner compatible with
the Government's responsibility for macroeconomic management, including
intervention in key sectoral decisions, several policy measures have been
formulated under the proposed project relating to investment planning,
financing and taxation (paras. 50, 54 and 57 below).
53.       Investment Planning.  Despite its responsibility under the
electricity law for ensuring an adequate and reliable supply of electricity,
MVWY has had little input in the formulation of investment decisions or sector
strategy, with IPM and OT taking the lead. The actual preparation of these
investment proposals has rested mainly with the engineering, consulting, and
research institutions, Engineering Company for Power Station and Network
Design (EROTERV), the Institute of Energy (EGI), Institute of Energy Research
(VEIKI), and the operating arm of IPM, the State office for Energy and Energy
Safety (AEEF).
54.      In view of the magnitude of power investments and the complexity of
investment decisions, there is a need for decision makers in Government to be
presented with investment proposals based on sound economic principles and
taking account of the risks of alternative options. To strengthen its own
planning capability, and to enable itself to play a meaningful role in
investment decisions, MVMT has agreed to: (a) carry out a least cost power
investment study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, by June
30, 1987; (b) after exchanging views with the Bank on the study, prepare a
least cost investment strategy; (c) review and update this strategy annually;
and (d) recommend to the Government only alternative investment programs that
are in accordance with this strategy. The Government has agreed to ensure
that the future development of power generation would be in accordance with
one of the alternative investment programs prepared by MVMT.
55.      Electricity Pricing.  Electricity cariffs for industry and other
producing sectors are currently about 134X on average of long run marginal
cost (LRMC), and on average amount to 113X of LRMC, including the households
and services sectors. The tariff structure has time of day kWh prices and
charges for subscribed maximum demand in system peak and other periods. This
structure is broadly in accord with the structure of LRMC and provides strong
signals to shift consumption to off-peak periods. To obtain firm estimates of
IRMC by tariff category based on consumer load characteristics and on long run
fuel supply costs, MVMT has agreed to initiate a LRMC tariff study by January
31, 1987, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and complete and
submit it to the Bank for review by December 31, 1987. MVMT would thereafter
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on the results and
conclusions of the study, and refine its level and structure of tariffs.



- 14 -
56.       Pending completion of this study to rationalize electricity
consumption while enabling households to afford minimum standards of heat and
light, the Government is seriously considering a higher tariff for marginal
consumption, offering to supply new consumers of night electricity at a tariff
close to LRMC and reducing regional price variations. Since the marginal
price would apply to incremental consumption, most of the efficiency
objectives of LRMC pricing would be achieved, and at the same time protecting
low-income households.
57.       Finance.  The financial relationships between the enterprise and the
Government were made complex and Less transparent due to a centralization of
enterprise profits, the transfer of a substantial portion of depreciation
funds to the State, and regulation of utilization of enterprise funds and
assets. Before 1985, given the low personal income and sales taxes,
enterprise profits constituted the main resources for the Government budget,
and were reallocated to enterprises in the form of investment and operating
subsidies. Taxation was also used as an additional instrument to constrain
enterprise autonomy on investment decisions as a means of macroeconomic
stabilization. Forty percent of depreciation was paid to the state budget,
202 of after-tax profits had to be paid into a Compulsory Reserve Fund. A
part of the remaining profits, together with the 60% of depreciation left with
the enterprise, provided the enterprises' internal resources to cover debt
service, working capital, and planned investment requirements subject to an
investment levy and construction tax. Remaining profits could be placed into
a Profit Sharing Fund, whose size and distribution to workers was regulated by
a progressive tax on earnings, and into a voluntary Profit Reserve Fund, to be
taxed when used.
58.       The Government has introduced measures to make the tax system more
predictable, and to remove enterprise and sub-sector specific levies or tax
exemptions, to encourage enterprises to be more profit oriented.
59.      MVMT's financial performance has been determined to a large extent
by Government regulation of taxes, input and output prices, and investment
financing, which were influenced significantly by the Government's
macroeconomic objectives.  In the 1970s, MVMT generated substantial profits,
due to subsidized fuel prices, low-cost energy imports, and financial
changes. These would have provided a significant generation of resources if
they had not been taxed away. For example, during the period 1981-84, the
resources transferred by MVMT to the Government through various taxes would
have financed 45X of its investment expenditures, including the Paks nuclear
power plant which was largely financed by Government loans. MVMT's
profitability in recent years has been affected adverseily by substantial
increases in fuel costs, interest rates and taxation. As a result, MVMT has
faced problems in meeting its debt service obligations. To overcome these
problems, the Government plans to convert the loan for the Paks nuclear power
plant into equity, which would carry a dividend of 8%.
60.      To address MVMT's financial problems in a lo.g run perspective, and
to promote greater financial autonomy, a number of cha ges in the zaxation
system have already been introduced in 1985 and in 1986, as a result of which:
(i) consistent with other enterprises in the competitive sectors, MVMT will be
charged the accumulation tax only on investments decided by the company;



- 15 -
(ii) MVMT is charged the same level of tax on profits as the rest of the
enterprises in the competitive sectors; and (iii) MVMT would continue to be
exempt from the wealth tax. The Government has further assumed that the
specific producer turnover tax would be abolished in the future. As a result
of these changes, the MVMT tax regime is now consistent with the rest of the
enterprises in the competitive sectors, except for the wealth tax, which is
inappropriate for a public utility whose major investment decisions are made
by the Government. The accumulation tax, which was introduced as a macro-
economic measure for demand management, would be further reviewed as the
economic reform progresses.
61.       To ensure that MVMT has greater responsibility for mobilizing
resources for its investments and to reduce its reliance on the state budget,
the project includes the setting of monitorable financial targets.  MVMT has
agreed to generate 35S of resources needed for investment. The level of cash
generation would be computed after taxes, debt service, dividend payments of
not less than Ft 3.5 billion in 1987 and Ft 4.4 billion thereafter, and
working capital requirements, and would be related to the average construction
requirements during the concerned year and the year preceding. In calculating
debt service, foreign debts will be calculated at the prevailing exchange
rate. To ensure monitoring of the realization of these targets, MVMT would
furnish to the Bank for review no later than September 30 of each year a
realistic forecast of its estimated cash generation and investment
expenditures for the following year, and following such review take all
measures, including the adjustment of its tariffs, to meet the agreed
financial targets.
62.      The financial targets set out above (para. 61) would imply increases
in electricity tariffs in line with increases in LRMC due to projected
increases in energy prices in real terms. An implied scenario is for
electricity tariffs for producers to be maintained at or above LRMC and for
household consumers to increase in real terms by about 9X p.a., thus ensuring
that consumer tariffs continue to remain at 601 of LRMC. Besides promoting
efficient use of energy, the financial targets would help MVMT maintain a
balanced financial structure, including a satisfactory debt/equity ratio,
current ratio, debt service coverage and internal cash generation. MVMT would
be required to obtain the Bank's consent prior to any borrowing if it should
result in MVMT's internal resources not being sufficient to exceed its debt
service in any future year by 1.5 times.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
63.      The proposed project would be the third project in the energy
sector. The first project, the Industrial Energy Diversification and
Conservation Project (Ln. 2317-HU) approved in 1983, aimed at improving the
efficiency and competitiveness of the major energy-consuming industries,
reducing industrial energy consumption by a greater use of domestic energy and
strengthening the country's industrial energy rationalization program.
Implementation has suffered initial delays due to delay in the recruitment of
consultants, but is currently proceeding well. The second project, the
Petroleum Project (Ln. 2398-RU) aimed at supporting the Government's strategy
in the sector by arresting the decline in domestic oil and gas production
through a series of priority investments in exploration, field development,



- 16 -
rehabilitation and enhanced oil recovery, and by strengthening the
capabilities of the National Oil and Gas Trust (OKGT) in the overall
management of the sector. Although beset by initial teething problems in
procurement which have now been resolved, implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. The proposed power project would provide a vehicle for the
Bank's dialogue on the national issues of electricity planning, pricing, and
enterprise autonomy. The project would help build a pricing policy based on
the long-run marginal cost, rationalize the fiscal system in line with the
economic reforms already being implemented for enterprises in the competitive
sectors, promote MVMT's efficiency, autonomy and financial viability and
effect technology transfer on power plant monitoring, control, planning, and
management.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
64.       The project was identified and prepared with assistance from the
Bank and consultants. It was appraised in June/July 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington on March 24 to 28, 1986, with a delegation consisting of
representatives of the National Planning Office, MVMT, the Ministry of
Finance, the State Development Bank and NBH and led by Mr. T. Laczai-Szabo,
Chief Counsellor of the Ministry of Industry. A staff appraisal report
entitled Hungary --Power Project (No. 5927-HU), dated April 23, 1986, is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Maps of the country showing the project areas (IBRD 19395) and Bank projects
in execution (IBRD 17361R) are attached.
Proiect Obiectives
65.       The objectives of the proposed project are to (i) economically
increase the utilization of domestic coal, thus saving imported energy;
(ii) assist MVMT in allocating its scarce investment capital efficiently and
in strengthening its institution building efforts; (iii) reduce atmospheric
pollution; and (iv) assist in the transfer of modern technology. To achieve
these objectives the proposed project would help MVMT to: (a) reconstruct,
upgrade and rehabilitate existing coal-fired power plants and transmission and
distribution systems; (b) improve the firing conditions of poor quality
domestic coal used for power generation; (c) acquire modern means and
techniques of investment and system planning, system operation, monitoring and
control, economic pricing, financial management, management information
systems and training; and (d) improve air quality through better monitoring
and control of pollution, rehabilitating and/or replacing electrostatic
precipitators and the installation of desulphurizing units. In addition, the
proposed project provides a vehicle for the transfer of modern technology by
providing an opportunity to local manufacturers to improve the designs of the
boilers and turbogenerators they manufacture.
Project Description
66.       The project is a seven-year time slice of MVMT's 1986-1994
reconstruction and rehabilitation program. It would have the following
project components: (a) the reconstruction/rehabilitation of, the power
stations of Gagarin, Ajka, Borsod, Pecs, Tiszapalkon, Oroszlany, November 7
and Tatabamya; and (b) the upgrading of the transmission and distribution



- 17 -
systems; (c) technical assistance aimed at assisting MVMT to enhance its
planning, management and operations, including improvement of its management
information systems. Under the technical assistance component funds would
also be provided for the purchase of a mobile pollution monitoring unit for
in-stack monitoring of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides as well as ambient
monitoring of nitrogen oxides.
Project Cost and Financing
67.      The project is estimated to cost $620 million equivalent, including
physical and price contingencies, and interest during construction. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at $193.9 million equivalent, or 31%
of the total. The estimates are based on prices quoted on contracts for
equipment, materials and works for ongoing programs. Physical contingencies
represent 10% of the base cost. Price contingencies were calculated assuming
annual escalation rates of 7% for 1986, and 6.5% for 1987 to 1992 for loeal
costs; 7% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and
4.5% for 1991 and 1992 for foreign costs. These costs do not include any
taxes and duties, which are not applicable.
68.      The proposed Bank loan of $64 million would finance about 10% of the
total project cost and 33% of the foreign exchange cost. The loan would be
made to the Hungarian People's Republic and onlent to MVMT for 15 years
including 3 years of grace at the Bank's variable interest rates plus 30%.
The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness. About 90% of
the financing requirement ($556.0 million equivalent) would be provided by
MVMT through internally generated funds.
Status of Proiect Preparation
69.      The proposed project is a part of the MVMT's on-going power plant
reconstruction program. The designs for reconstruction of five of the eight
plants included in the project have already been completed, and the designs
for the remaining three plants are being improved taking into account the
Bank's suggestions and would be completed by December 31, 1985. The proposed
reconstruction designs were reviewed and found to be economic, technically
sound and satisfactory.
Proiect Implementation
70.      MVMI would be responsible for overall management, coordination and
supervision of the project. Except for the technical assistance components
which would be implemented and managed directly by MVMT, the remaining project
components would be implemented by each member enterprise of MVMT. The
project would be implemented over a seven-year period, in accordance with an
agreed implementation schedule.
71.      To propose needed improvements in the Management Information System
(MIS), MVMT would undertake a study of MIS requirements, including the
necessary hardware, software and training required to implement the adopted
system, with the assistance of consultants to be appointed by January 31,
1987, and whose terms of reference, qualifications and experience would be
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 18 -
72.      As power generation in the past has been affected by both inadequate
supplies of coal and its uneven quality, (i) MVMT would initiate, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study to identify the major causes of
quality fluctuations of coal supplied to all power plants; (ii) furnish to the
Bank a copy of the study by June 30, 1987; and (iii) adopt by December 31,
1987 and thereafter carry out a program to ensure flame stability at its power
stations based on results and conclusions of the study and after taking into
consideration the Bank's views on the matter. The Government has also agreed
to ensure that MVMT is provided with adequate, suitable and timely supplies of
coal and other fuels to ensure the efficient and economical operations of its
MVMT facilities.
Procurement
73.       Items to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan will be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Limited international bidding
(LIB) will be followed for contracts not exceeding $250,000, and $3.0 million
in the aggregate (about 5X of the loan amount) for imported specialized
equipment manufactured by a small number of companies. Direct contracting
will be permitted for proprietary items and spare parts for not exceeding
$300,000 individually, and the equivalent of $7.8 million in the aggregate
(about 12S of the loan amount). All other goods financed under the Bank loan
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), with
domestic manufacturers being allowed a price preference of 151. Contracts for
consultancy services will be awarded in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The terms of reference, conditions of
employment, qualification and experience of the consultants would be
satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement arrangements are signarized in the
following table.
KiS$ Million
Procureent Method
Proiect Element          ICB  LIB  LCB  Otber /1  NA  Total
agsrrin                 46.0  2.2  20.0  146.8    -  215.0
(i;.0) (0.4)      (1.5)      (18.9)
A11a                    2.b  0.4  5.0  20.0    -   2S.0
(1.0) (0.1)      (0.2)       (1.3)
50rsod                  2.7  0.5   2.0   9.0    -   14.2
(1.0) (0.2)      (0.3)       (1.5)
Piee                    9.7  2.0  8.0  62.8    -   82.5
(2.8) (0.3)      (1.0)       (4.1)
Precipitators L Desulfurization  2.0  -    -  22.0    -   24.0
Borsod Turbine         (1.4)                         (1.4)
- civil worka          -    -    0.4    -      -    0.4
- supply and erection  14.4  -    -      -      -   14.4
(8.5)                        (8.5)
Other Generation Plant  22.3  6.0  26.7  80.6    -  135.6
Rehabilitation         27.6  3.2  3.8  43. 4    -   78.0
(21.5) (1.0)      (3.0)      (25.5)
Technical Aseistance     -    1.0   -     1.8    -    2.8
(1.0)       (1.8)       (2.8)
Engine ring. Superviaon
end Administration    -                       2 -  -    25.1  25.1
127.3  15.3  65.9  386.4  25.1 620.0
(53.2) (3.0)      (7.8)      (64.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed under
the Bank loan.
1  Includes largely contracts that would be aarded internationally and
dometically through direct contracting.



- 19 -
Disbursements
74.     Disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed loan would cover 100l
of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials imported by MVMT, 100l of
foreign expenditures, or 1001 of the ex-factory price and 301 of the local
erection costs (estimated to represent the foreign cost component) of the
Borsod power plant turbogenerator, and 1001 of foreign expenditures for
technical assistance and training. Withdrawal applications for contracts
valued at less than $20,000 equivalent will be submitted on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOE). The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1992 and the loan closing date would be March 31, 1993.
Environmental Impact
75.     A major impact of the proposed project would be the reduction of dust
emission levels at three of the power stations being reconstructed (Gagarin,
Ajka, P6cs) through the rehabilitation of electrostatic precipitators (ESPs).
This would result in emission levels falling from 1,000-1,900 mg to 100-150 mg
per cubic meter of air under normal atmospheric pressure, temperature and
humidity, which is acceptable.
76.     Because of the increase in station output resulting from the project,
sulphur dioxide (S02) emissions would increase from 401 to 901 above current
levels. Maximum S02 emissions would be 20.3 tons/hour at the Gagarin plant,
which is within the Bank guideline of 21.0 tons/hour. MVMT would be required
to take necessary actions to operate its plants in accordance with
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
77.     Hungary has signed in 1985 the United Nations protocol to the 1979
convention on long-range transboundary air pollution for the Economic
Commission for Europe (signed in 1985) which requires reduction in sulphur
emissions or their transboundary fluxes by at least 301 below their 1980
levels by 1993. The Government has provided written assurances that all
necessary actions would be taken to comply with the United Nations protocol.
Benefits and Risks
78.     On completion, the proposed project would enable MVMT to use low
quality domestic coal, produce operational economies in power generation and
heat supply, increase the output, availability, reliability, and life
expectancy of existing coal-fired power plants and transmission and
distribution systems.
79.     The project would be the least cost means of meeting the demand for
electricity during the period 1989-1995. The power station reconstruction
program would add about 266 MW of expected net capacity from the existing
power stations which, in conjunction with improved availability, would help
generate 2,300 GWh per annum additionally, and generate savings in capital and
operating costs, by delaying nuclear and lignite investments by about one
year. Despite the difficulties in involved in calculating a rate of return,
due to loss of output during the period the units are withdrawn for
reconstruction, the long period over which the program is implemented and



- 20 -
large nuclear units coming into stream during the period, the project is
estimated to yield an economic rate of return of 12X, based on incremental
revenues.
80.     Other non-quantifiable benefits include environmental improvement
resulting from the reduction of dust emissions and the enhanced planning,
managerial, and training capabilities of MVMT. Non-quantificable costs
include the costs of higher sulphur and nitrogen oxides emissions.
81.     The main risks confronting the project are the possible lower demand
in electricity than expected and potential fuel supply risks, such as higher
coal costs and insufficient coal supply. A lower-than-expected demand in
electricity could be dealt with by delaying the nuclear and lignite
investments that were planned to follow the project. The risk of increased
coal prices is not significant since the project would be economically viable
under 351 increase in the price of coal. Delays in mine reconstruction and
modernization, unexpected geological conditions, labor shortages, machinery
breakdowns or financial shortfalls could result in an inadequate production of
coal. This risk would be minimized by Government assurances that MVMT would
receive adequate, suitable and timely supplies of coal and other fuels to
enable efficient and economical operation of MVMT facilities in accorda-ce
with sound public utility practices.
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
82.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 28, 1986



-21-                                                      ANNEX 
(Page 1)
NUNGARY                - SOCTAL  fICt        f gS    t
INOASIv                             641 mNCGoUff               "U WID AW)DU  Le
MOST                     (MOlT 63 l3 UITIIIA?3) A
jbl b            NtCMW          NOFAST 103093*               :usumt*&
SaL   CTgINATLIb    ,ei-MAWtrn CaOsuus      waaxu uCcNouaw
AMU (TiNsM  SQ. 0@
TUTAL                               *1.0       93.0        92.0
ACSiOJLTUKAL                        7t.4        63.0       65..
ow  m cAnto (n)                         ..         ..       2350.0                ..                   1102.9
UW u?Zc. um MCaITwA
(KtLOcZm  Of OIL IQUIvLIN)       1a14.0     2070.0      2361.0             4186.1                    MA9.3
igus.LIm  ME .zra U!AU3YI
POPULATION.101.-UAR (ThOUSANDS)   9984.O     10337.0    30699.0
URIO  PrOLrTION I  Of TOTAL)        40.1        *t.9       54.1               13.8                     76.7
POPULATION FEIPEWCUtON
POPJLATION i1 YA 2000 (KILL)                             10.7
SrATIONAR? PULATION (KILL)                               11.0
POPULATION IUWINM                                         1.1
POPLATION 03siT1
pgu  sq. M.                      107.2       111.1      I15.0               42.5                    140.8
gum SQ. WI. AGIE. LAND           129.8       150.4      142.7               83.4                    522.2
IPOPULATIOIN AGE STRUCTURE CE)
0-14 T38                         25.3        20.6       21.?               24.4                     21.3
15-64 1U                          65.6       67.6        65.2               65.4                     66.6
65 AID ASO                         9.0        11.5       12.9               10.0                     12.0
OPUILATION GROM11 RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              0.7         0.3        0.2                0.                      0.
URUM                               1.2         2.1        1.4                1.8                      1.3
m u KIM  mg (PEr  130)              14.7       14.7        11.9               19.0                     13.5
RiUia  OLATE RATE (PU T30.          10.2        I1.        13.9               10.5                       .9
-S  RtPRODCtMOi  RATE                3.0         1.0        0.9                1.2                      0.9
TAMMLY PLAMNING
AOcEPTaS. AaM1L (1 )               ..        149.0 Ic   711.3 /c
tILS Zor NaIED VUO )               ..        67.077    7s.0o7.t             ..                      l7.1
rowum -  .zTmu
0  Oft FOOD FROD. M  CAPITA
(1-71-1003                          23.0        91.0      147.0              109.6                    107.2
PER CAPITA LulL? OF
CALRIS (I or IEQUuISm )          119.0       127.0      134.0              123.2                    132.
MG01x13 (GaRA  PER DAY)           64.0       91.0        95.0              100.0                    1ol.0
of WICH ANIML AMD PULSE          36.0        39.0       46.0 A             53.8                     614
CalLD (AM  1-4) OLAE RATE            'A.         2.         1.0                1.6                      0.4
LlIf  SPECT. AT BISIT (13A33)       66.4       69.          9.9               69.                      75.5
INFANT HS.  RAn  (Pn Tows)          47.6       35.9        19.0               19.6                      9.9
ACCES TO SAFE WATER (1301)
TOTAL                             22.7  L    36.6        64.9 ...
uUm                                ..         45.0 a     63 a
RURAL                              ..         10.6 #     425 /.*
ACCESS TO aXCuRTA DISPAL
(Z or POPTIOn)
TOAL                               ..         27.2 g    53.2 /                ..
UIIU                               ..         50.1       72.6  /              .
RURAL                              ..         **.2       30. l J..
POPUtATIO  Pum MMS'CIAN            720.0       S10.0      400.0 lb           348.7                    533.2
POP. FE NIUStiNC lESSON            330.0 /L    30.0       150.07W            130.7                    14.
FOP. PEC OSPITAL lED
TOTAL                            140.0       120.0      110.0               11.4                    120.9
UZ11l                             60.0 IL   340.0       130.0A            109.0                    143.2
R_Ral.  ..  ..     _.             15764.7                    778.8
ADMIIOUS PM fOhSPAL h   D           *     -    20.5        21.6 lh            1.4                      17J
AVEACE SIZE Of rOUOSWLD
TOTAL                              3.1        3.0         2.8J l
U3ll8                             ..          2.7         z. 7..
uAL                                ..         1.2         3.0 Z.
AWRm   .0. Of PEESMISE
TOTAL                              2.4        2.0         1.5 lb
0                                  ..         1.9         1.5 W
RAL                               ..          2.0         1. 71.
ncuTS    oF DIELLINGS 11TT  EECr.
TOTAL                             74.6        91.7
1M1                                ..        94.         9.
"                                  ..        $7.4        96.9 71



-22-                                                    ANNEX I
(Page 2)
(mOS NZCNT ESTINT3
CW ~ ~   sn smmr xw
w uOLk      itidl   :95TINIrd,      NOU-1KT uoumu              KUn  ECuWfl
ADJUT MUN)UW IIt ATIOB
AIN4AM   TOTAL                    101.0        97.0       100.0              104.3                     101.2
NLE                    1023.0       91.0       100.0               98.1                     102.8
FIw.                   100.0        *7.0       100.0               97.                      102.4
UCaMm         ^TOL                 22.0        43.0        73.0               89.7                      87.1
NILE                    21.0        71.0        74.0               70.3                      *0.2
136.                    34.0        55.0        72.0               74.9                      84.1
WOC*TZOU*L (201 SZO 8Rf              30.4        73.6        74.1               32.5                      1.4
IPU1L-T3ac3 RaTO
IFAX11R                            24.0        16.0        15.0               12.2                      14.7
UZCOAZ                             11.0        38G.O       19.0               14.0                      11.6
PAISMCU CMTUI A  POP                  3.3        23.2       106.6               97.5                    328.2
DXC   cb 10                         222         244J        261.5              429.4                    1093.2
PS 1                                10.L       171.1       282.2              238.8                     492.3
INuhISUUh) CIRCULATION
PU TUSUI I oIULATI                 143.6       213.5       248.9             325.4                      320.4
CaIL  NNAL. I-U                      14.0         7.7         8.4               12.L                        .3
TOTAL LAMO. M6w  (TICSDO           4777.0      5031.0      3196.0
UIESLE CFET)                       28.3        42.0        42.                47.23                     36.2
AGRICULTURE CIC)                   38.7        25.2        20.5 ft1           17J                        G.2
IXOUET  (1U T)                     344         44.4        42.9 E             43.7                      37.7
TOTAL                              47.8        46.7        *6.6               51.1                      46.0
_A_K                               63.1        58.2        57.                58.7                      59.5
IBNAL.                             33.7        39.7        40.0               46.0                      32.7
*CO--3C n      WCM  C)2AT0            0.7         0.7         0.7                0.7                       0.7
-s1  N or PRIVAU INCg
I   IF 30 0O W8ZJOLPS             12.1 /k     11.5 A      10.6 hk
ITOU     20201 OF  USUODS          34.8 7      22.7 2k 32.3 7K                43.1
LC   20X OIP *9.44                       9.9 /k 07..                                              5.4
Lou=  AM   II W35IS                23.0        24.87K    26.271                ..                       16.4
LEMI  CMS  PM3 CaPITA)
UK""
fora       INOM m R      CZ)
533                                 ..          ..          .                   ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
-sn nuTI u
MT YILICS   5CAPITA
mum                                 ..          ..          .                   ..
mum                        ..          ..          .                   ..
UL                                  ..          ..          .                   ..
IIOT en~NTE
N o T * *
/a   Th groop aver_ag  for eoAC  LndIcator 4re pOPULgClop e-VIght8d erItmMtC 33a8.  Covraga Of coer adlIe
SMaE the indIcatoro depend am avaUlbIlIty of data .d Is aet unlorn.
lb  Unlems otbre   naotded. "DSeC for 1960  refer to ay "ear betwe  199 a'd 1961; "Dats sar 1970" bet_ e
1969 MA  1971; am data for "Ibt Recent Eatnt." betas. 11 dad 1963.
/Lc   Warn of rprodutve ago (17-49) uain  oral cnacopeva;  Id 1966. women of reprod t1,O 1S la"
tha  45 years;  , 1977; it Ve.of rrductIsa a*p loe tQ; 40 year;    1j PerteflaQ Of oCUP1e44
dulage;  bh 190; /I 192;  11 1976; /   7t 0tae of t&co  recLwvd by che roapetiv& percmnt of
the popultatn,. end CFa refer to yewr 1aW. 1972 nd 1977.
JUn. 1963



ANNEX I
-23- 
(Page 3)
DEFINlOPOS OF SOCIAL INBICA;OKS
Noma: Alhough te data m drawn from soums gnealy judpd th mom n autoritative mid reiable it should also be noted tht they may not be nmternamonal ly
comparble because of the lack of standardized denmint   and cermp used by diffement counm  - collcng the data. Tle data are. nonethekless useful to
deacnbe orders of magutude. irmd   trends and characrine certaun _maor differnc betwn countries
The rfernc groups ame () the s- country group fit. sject country and 21 a country group with somewhat higer ave icome than the country
goup ofite sutsc country Iexnp for-High IncomeOil Expoem  proup shre"MWdiincome Noth Afria and Middle East" is chosen because oftnogmr
socio-cultursl aslmues). In the ireree group dat the avemgn an populaon weitd anthntic mon for each ndictor and sbown only when matonty
of the coumntries in a group h da for utht indiator. Sim te coweae ocountrie aong the indicators depd on the availaility ofdata and is KIt uniformf.
cAuo must be emoted in laing average done indicaor to anotdh. The seaverages mandy useful in comparing th value of ore indiAtor at a time among
the country and referen msups.
AREA (thousand sq.ktn.)                                         Cud lnk Raoe (pr thJaudI-Number of live binhs in the year
Tri-Total surface ara comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 dati.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crde Deak Awe tper trhatand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agri='d-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-yer population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Groa Aepraetie  Rag-Avernge number of daughtcrs a wooman
lie faUow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            wiUl bear in her normal reproductive period if she expt,riences
present age-pecific fertility ratue  usually five-year a.e rages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS-GNP per capita estimates at curent          in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World
Rank Atlas (1981-83 basis); ;983 data.                          berofaceptors of birth-contrio devices under auspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMMON PER CAPIITA-Annual apparent                    famy P           penam
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Ramd4y PhiwJfs_swr (pavern of medd wasseru)-The prcn-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women ofdchd-bearing age who are pmaticing or
incity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ar practicing any forn ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      oft child-bearing age are generly women aed 15-49. although for
some countries contaceptive usage is mcasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 goupz
Teed APbppsiou Mid-Yer (eunsusdfl-As ofJuly 1 1960.1970.        FOOD AND NULRMITON
and 1983 data.
Poaz xf feed Prcahlcm Per Ca  (1969-71 - 1600-Index of per
U lan   differen     e d  f tfini-Ra of  rban to totma          capita annual production of al food commodities. Production
population; different deinitions of urban areas may affect compar- exldsnaledndedfoagiutr.Fdcmoiis
abiiiiy of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 damv      excudcs animal feed and seed for agnicultume Food commodities
indude primary commodities (e.& sugarcane instcad of sugar)
-          Prejectias                                           which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
tpulaioion inywar 2000-The projectuon of population for 2000.   exduded); they comprise cereals root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabls fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar bet livestock, anti
total population by age and rx. fertility rates, mortality ras. and  livestock products. Aggregate production orcach country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these paramete   on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generazed  1982 data.
assumptions until the population beame stationary.              aw Cie. S l of CiWis (pecet ofeqtreust)-Comput-
Staoruiwnr populairw-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed frmn calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specdi c  per capita per day. Available supplies conprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously mreained at replacement levl  tion. imports lss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population the birth ate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agrkulture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is abo  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristic of  and health consideing environmnental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  ageand sex distribution of population. and allowing IC percent for
rate to replacement kevd.                                       waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capeh S lyof qN Pein. (grew per dyJ-Protein content or
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has beent  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the nct reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility renains at replac-  should be animal proteinL These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year  onward. 1985 data.                        75 grms of total protein and 23 grams of animal protcin as an
P-p d Desy                                                      averge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Pr rsq.kr.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supplr. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total arca; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Pe Capia Prete  Supply From AII mad Phe-Proleicsn supply
Per sqkm. agricufturao lad-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and !977 data.
APpd.ieu Age Strucire (percema-Children (0-14 years). work-     CAd (aes 1-4) Desk Ra  (per rheusd)-Numbe. of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and ovcr) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mnid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pbpdesi.u Greinh Rae (pjrcsrj-totail-Annual growth rates of     from life tbles; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEAIIH
Podatlu  Crush Rar (pracenQt-w*-Annual growth rates             Lf E&pecawy -  ark (yesj--Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043 data.      infant would live ir prevailing patters of mortality for aU people



-24-                                              ANNEX I
(Page 4)
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life:  Pupti-teaher Ratio - primory, and scondarry-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 dati.                                     rolled in primary and secondary lvels divided by numbers or
ifawt Mm-aft Rae (per t:heuad)-N umber of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1913 data                                CONSUMPTON
Access to Saf Wae (peret ef p  Iitbn)-teol  whn and            nue.   Cars (per thesmd pepuLnrlin)-laswrnger cars com-
nsINLtnber of people (totaL urban, and rura) with reasonble   prise motor can seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surfwe waten or  ances. hearsnes and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontminated water such as that from protected  Rd& RJlece wer (per thousean pap  ion)-AIl types of ieceivers
borebolas sprips and sanitary wells) a percenta of their respec-  for rdio broadsts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populationL In an urban ae a public rountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect data for recent years may
as being within reasonablek acom  of that house. In rural ueas    not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
ressonble acces  would imply that the housewife or memben of the
housdbold do not have to spend a dispropordonate pat of the day  TV ReCdIZ (per thoesmidpopabuon)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetchirn the family s water neds                           to genra public per thousand population: excudes unlicensed TV
Atr o Eu DbpoS receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
ACCcs to Exawam   kn  (a ew f# p.p.At )-twell, when,    in effect.
and rumr-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
ecretu disposal as perentag  of their respective populations  Newspqi Chewon (pgr trhosnMdpepalidan-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposa may include the collecton and disposal. with or  age circulation of daily general interest newspaprr" defined as a
without treatrent, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systerms or the use of pit privies and similar insllations.  It is considered to be daily' if it appears at kast four times a week.
Aipfee per Pycilona-41opulttion divided by number of pm..     Cm   An_nl Attemnlnce per CW&e per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university l-.vd  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pwpdlte per N _mu Pers-Pbopuon divided by number of           drive-in anemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurse  assistant nurses.
pratical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
hp I d  pw Hw$pd ird-dair. w 1     , ad rorurF-rpulation      Teed Labor Arc, (trhewm- d)-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding anned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
bospital beds avaiabie in pubc andt ivte  l and    ed        students. etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centerm Hospitals are establshments  various countries are not compamab  1960. 1970 and 19B3 dats.
permany staffed by at leat one physicw. Establisbments prov-  f       (percw)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial cae a  not included. Rural hospitals  force.
however. include beith and medical centers not permanendy staffed  4irworr (pirce)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physicin (but by a medical assistant, nurse midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 19S0
wbich offer in-patint accommodation and provide a limited range  dat.
of medical facilities.                                       Indusry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Aduis  pr Hespal Bed-Total number of admissions to or         facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dichar  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.         force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwdwtism  r (          m       k.mdfeaul-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total malk and female labor force
Ave Sce of HoIeu     d (pa    r hw)erd whn                   as percentages of total, male and remale population of al ages
mAdrhI-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on LO's
lving quarters and their mnain meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the bousehold for statistical purposes.  long time trend A few estimates are from national sources.
Aveag N_wkw of Pon per Re.--toa. whn, ad ual-                 Ecmndk Dependeny Rai-Ratio of population under 15. and
Aveage number of persons per room in al urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied coonventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pua                  INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Percente of DwelIns wih E         -      rb, and rra-         Aewe of Tetl Dipabk Inscoe (hern ma and hind)-
Conventional dwellings with cectricity in living quarters as pecen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sred Enolent Rados                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prunary schoot - total. male and femak-Gross total. male and  klvs. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enroUment of aRl ages at thc primary lewd as percentages of  Esulraed Absolue Pover Incomw Led (USS per cyistaD-an
respecive primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rral-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary sdcool age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country practice in the ages and duration of school  non-food requimments is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esdfnws Relate Poverty Income Leve (1SS per c*pita)-,rban
education, gross enrollm ent may exceed 100 percent sinc some  and ruira-Rural relative pover!y income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban klv  is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondry schod - toIat, male and female-Computed as above.    living in urban areas
secondary education requires at ket four yeas of approved pri-  EsemedJ Popueton Below Absolute Awe.ty Inrome Level (per-
mary instuctio  provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cenj-iwha adv rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupis usuay of 12 to 17 years of age; corrspond-  who are absolute poor.-
ence courns are   erally excluded.
Voeotaio E ;roLnmi (percen of secoidary)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tieo incude technicaL industriaL or otber progams which operate      Economic Analysis and Prosections Department
independently or au depatments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 25 -
ANNEX I
(Page 5)
Mu                                         PPULAIONElST
93.036  q kim                                            13.7 million Imid-19121                                1S5.1 owr sq km
Rats of growth: 0.2rc Ifra 1970 to 1931               22z3.5 per sq kmof arable Iand
puTatiW  LHAAArICTTCS LISZt                                                  Shil,l
Crude birth rae (peur 1 0)11 .                                                 Populatifn per physician (111)                           47
Crude death rate (per I e.06                         12.9                      Peoulation per hospital bed (1981)                     le
Infant artality (pWr 1.00  live births)               9.6
yNtbCl  dtSRTemiTIO  (19771
S of private Inoeo   highst 20 POrCent               32                                     F r  nnhSLfP
lowest 40 percent              2Z.2                           e   b       102 of t nerse
t oed by sliest 1t0 of users
acCSS     PIPED  TETR lgiqai                                                  srCfts Tn tLrrTfliv i
X of population - urban                               c.N LI                   Kf popltin-rTen 91.2
- rural                              43.1 jj                                    - rural                                 97.8
Calorie Intake as 2 of requiremnts                  134.0                      Adult literacy rate X 19821                             9.9
Per capita protein intake (.)                       105.2                      Pr1iry school enroll_nt X 13I1)                         97.3
rP  PEe CAPITA TN 19 4 a:  USt 2LRt
c-    OISlC ASauT  6L 14                                                        MnUAE OF F             f  contant sr
GOP at lfeftet Prices                 20.4             110.0                    6.2                 2.2                2.1               2.8
Gross Destic Investment                5.2              25.5                     .9                 Z.2               -4.2              -2.7
Gross Donstic Sevins                   5.R              28.6                    11.R                5.7               32.               683
mesource alance                        0.6               3.2
Exports of Goods. MFS                  3.2              4t8                      .                   9                 5.2               S.R
oorts of Goods. UFS                    7.                7.7                    7.                   .9               -                   1
Grin  Value AddS                taker Forc- 14                    i tJLL23LJSE=.
Ft 81n         Mt           =  -]---
Agriculture              166              3.5           17.2                1.072                 21.1             2.265                71.1
Industry  lmcl. constr.) 401              3.4           23.3                1.90                  28.8             4.402               1 66
Services                 309              6.4           28.7                1.9S0                 2.7              2.2S                 71.1
UnialOCated Li           W                LI.           IL
Total/Average        979             20.4          130.0                4.940                 160.0            4.120 a             100.0 g
aRNWINT FtlAICE
State  tdflt- 
(Ft RlnIn              c f Gs
nus                         ama
Current Receipts           572.9 S      5.S             S9.0
Current E1na ditures       517.7       52.9             52.7
Current Surplus             55.2        5.6              6.3
Capital Expoenditures       53.7        6.0              7.0
External Assistnce (net)
a   Percenta" ef occupied dwellings.
AZ world  ea* Atlas wathdoloey. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the avenge arc ral exchn  rate prevealng
during the period covered.
LI Active earners.
LI Custo  duties  nd valuation differences whiCh are not allocated by sector shte considerable fluctuation. There Is thus a distortion
introduced Into the interpretation of data on structural chge In the ecooe .
LI Excluding unillocated.
Not applicable                                                                              ECIA
lot available                                                                                February 25. 1986
14UF(4)



- 26 -
ANNEX I
(Page 6)
HWY- rwort mr-  men~~nsvr mya   mat
Sn              13              nu               I=              n               nu                nu
gIliUm rerinte outatanding mi asriod I
OO an _Qua  Ibiep                                   2 a17                         352.2          37J 2            405.             421.              441.0
Bark Credit to PubliC Sector                     426.4           47.4             499.2           in.:7           5S4.3            515.2             S55.2
lant Credit to Private Sectr                       1.5             14.'           107.2 719.!                      133.6           i54.s             179.a
I Psrcuiteu or Index n'fors )
aid _ai IU as X er fGO                            44.4            44.5             40.9            45.7            47.5             47.0              45.1
General Price Indee (1975 a 10)                  114.1            124.2           125.1           141.S            151.5           163.3             375.0
Amnal ers          - changes In:
Cwriser Price lodom                                4.4              3.9             9.1             4.4              4.9             7.1               5.2
5m* creit to Public Seter                         16.5             9.4              4.0             5.1             s.0              1.5               2.3
Of* credlt to Private S etor                       34.3            15.3            13.9             11.5            11.4            11.5              14.4
__wsanm   yq a C Z 755.-aol  Trae  in       Trade In
(Hillio tust           -                   ~ri                                        ~-K  A:s
Caports of Goods                     a.a94.o    e.oaz.s     su.47.      1.1136.,   fuels. olectric snorey                26.5        5.7      502.4      40.2
meeots of Goode                     11.115.4    5.57558    5.452.0    5.5225        aw materials. Si-finisbod
hon-factor learicos [Net)              gZL2       =2.MJ         113       _53        produts. sor"  earls               5582.9      23.4    14672.6      32.5
bansom    Gao (deficit a )-37.13                  454.0       473.0       550.0   ledmiiry, tVwaeiIpt OSiiffl.
oIler capital "oodf45t                         43.5     607.9      12.3
Intaroat Ptants (ftla)-.95                       -ae..e      -444.0      -590.?   IteAtecz     center                   GUda4.4     3 7.1    442.5       13.4
ettesl Sikttsalcos                       ..          .           .           .          srcumltama  oa "                            S  IA1-7 IS.J    .2
Other Fac  tor Pnic  (net)             211.0       132. 0     254.0       155.0             otal                       3.7515.6    110.0    4.9151.!    180.0
set tramefos                           .544-      -ALA         ILl        -HJI         ____________
Saance uq Current Accina              -1.         -213.5        21.0      271.3     .f    37f            U     14
tinils_s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~S Kint
oendi- am LSag-rTo   Capital                                                       Public d.ebt. Ui.. ISursnt                                            a.3
Aseots LI                          -130       -in           -50.0     -1415.9     (OF *.ch: Csn.srtible owroncyt
iabilitles                        1.119        261.         15.0    1.814.2    Son-ourantaod _r ato debt
Inflomm                        42.525     (1.201.3)   (1509.0)  (2.1154.71,       Total outstmiding amid dishursod                                 3.3
outflows                        (.906)     (-9401    (-1.255.05 (-1.542.41
Suort Tsn  CIntal                                                                  1110 1s.e t   t linsa'
Al lts 3                             47        -33         -254.5    -20.5.
LstS a                             -422       -ano I.os               -sn.i       t
Public d,bt. m1CI. .arootoad                                         25.9
Othe Items n.0. I. L2                             231        5l2          634          bn-.moruutsg  private dsbt
Incras  in lonerom  licrqase)          414        5I         -779.0    -740.3               etal                           15.9
Carat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ las tea nfl
in4 t.o *Ei. 37  f_rints
Ft. I111. SO.521                                                                                                                        It
1OutStandns  id dlsbarsd                                 233.2
Rr ~~oq prints                                                            ipidiobstai                                              IlL!-
Ft. 1.05 a- 3.52                                                              Outstanding. incl. msdsbad_                              aS0.4
LI Mon-rOIe assets: stiy eosrt financine.
a   Includes errors  waissiens.
a   use of Dtr Resacas.
LI  ala of total doN sam an ala- as Ions-tn debt to total  oWrt  of _oods as mico.  the dflt srice ratla cerrasonming La conyertibig
currecy dt   as 44.5.
Not a_licable.                                                                                                           mnim
Not aailable.                                                                                                           mara I 1. 1is"
14U r(5 



- 27 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statement of Bank Loans '
(as of March 31, 1986)
us$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                           (less cancellations)
Number      Year       Borrower       Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
2316-HU     1983       NBH '        Grain Storage & Mech    130.4        17.4
2317-RU     1983       HPR c'       Energy Conservation      109.0       71.7
B2-RU     1983       NBH          Grain Storage & Energy)
Conservation        ) 30.0           -
B3-KU     1983       NBH          Grain Storage & Energy )
Conservation         ) 8.89'         -
2397-EU     1984       NBH          Industrial Exports &)
Restructuring     )  110.0         70.5
2398-RU     1984       OKGT A/      Petroleum                 90.0       58.1
B8-RU     1985       NBH          Industrial Export & )
Restructuring, and)    35.0          -
Petroleum )
B9-HU     1985       NBH          Industrial Export &  )
Rectructuring, and )  12.2-'         -
Petroleum )
2510-HU     1985       NBH          Integrated Livestock      80.0       74.0
2511-RU     1985       NBH          Fine Chemicals            73.0       67.8
2557-RU     1985       HPR          Transport                 75.0       69.9
Bll-HU     1985       NBH          Integrated Livestock,)
Fine Chemicals and }  36.0         -
Transport )
B12-HU     1985       NBH          Integrated Livestock, )
Fine Chemicals and  } 14.0 "'      -
Transport           )
Total                                 803.4      429.4
of which has been repaid                -
Total now held by Bank               803.4
Total undisbursed                                429.4
The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
C/  National Bank of Hungary.
'' Hungarian People's Republic.
d' National Oil and Gas Trust.
US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y2.1 billion.
f' US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3 billion.
1'   US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3.5 billion.



-28 -               ANNEX III
(Page 1)
HUNGARY
POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project        July 1983 to April 1985
(22 months)
(b) Agency which has prepared the project               MVMT
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank              September 1984
(d) Date of first mission to consider the project       October 1984
(e) Dhte of departure of appraisal mission              June 17, 1985
Cf) Date of completion of negotiations                  March 28, 1986
(g) Planned date of effectiveness                       July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Acticn
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(1) Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
Ca)   Carrying out an energy pricing study by January 31, 1987 under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter
keep energy prices in line with their economic costs based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the study (para. 41);
(b)   Ensuring that the future development of power generation would
be in accordance with one or more of the alternative
investment programs prepared by MVMT (para. 54); and
(c)   Ensuring adequate supplies of coal (para. 72).
(2) Measures to be taken by the Beneficiary:
(a)   To carry out a least cost power investment study, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, by June 30, 1987;
prepare a least cost investment strategy after exchanging
views with the Bank; review and update this strategy annually;
and recommend to the Government only alternative investment
programs that are in accordance with this strategy (para. 54);



- 29 -               ANNEX III
(page 2)
(b)   To initiate by January 31, 1987 a LRMC pricing study under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and complete and
submit the study to the Bank for review by December 31, 1987
(para. 55);
(c)   To generate internally for the financing of its investment
program, funds equivalent to at least 35S of the average
construction requirements during the relevant year and the
year preceding the level of cash generation being calculated
after taxes, debt service, dividends and working capital
requirewnvnts, and to furnish the Bank by September 30 of each
year a realistic forecast of its estimated cash generation for
the current year and the next year to determine the prospects
of MVMT's ability to achieve the financial target and to take
necessary measures (para. 61).
(d)   To appoint consultants by January 31, 1986 in accordance with
Bank guidelines to complete a study on M[VT's MIS requirements
by December 1987 (para. 71); and
(e)   To initiate by September 30, 1986 a study under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, to identify the major cas e
of quality fluctuations of coal in all power plants, to
furnish the Bank a copy by June 30, 1987 and adopt by
December 31, 1987 and thereafter carry out a program to ensure
flame stability at its power stations based on the results and
conclusions of the study, taking into consideration the Bank's
views on the matter (para. 72).



TRANSMISSIorN1INEI              -' , CL~A-o                            olFdAo.
EIISIINg  sli'EO  Swi. Co-ilQN            H,          od Cool                           oo.d Cool -.
H  U  N  G  A  R Y                              _                2o2co kkkvv             im    E nsl:750 Bko-C                              Cool                                                                                     U. S .|s  R.
400 kV~ ~~~40.                                                                                                                                    ,
HUNGARY              ~              -                220 kV                                                                                                                                                    0
120 kVNooo  o,lNool0001 
POWER  SUBSECTOR                                                         Doubb Ci-oil                                                         C.kCD
- D   - .io -t p o -   -   -  s 0   k
-- ---220 kV                            ioo   oolo,do,                        owooooBdo.
20 kV
a. ._ ._ % < ( : ( -'- ' A. s O ir ''.E-.                          E %                                                   S
AUSTRIA  ~       oO00o                 CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                                   !ooooo
A U S T R I A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~GAET                                                                                                                                       
HJOTo,. oP-.o,o,o
I  -- -  cocor%              sz,ooooo,co   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     Th-I .-  .6
4 . -, \,M4G .... APAS54\\\ D - < .' L \ \ 3 CAZA t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HO    P , S.I..
(  0Th-.]oo Po.- Sw.i-o
Y ~         oS0fd U  G00 O  S             \,,XO                    ,'S<                                                                                                                                          ,0    UOr4,
_,   ,,.,,<Z./                                                                       \-f                                   ' '- ' 1   -._9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"-M Hin p-
V                                                                                    wr                                  r; *                      (                              _   ~: 5 th fGEEECERstSlIEO
.800                                                                                   rF O 4
Y U   G   0  S  L A  V  I A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~O~.0V                                                                                                      0       .-A         "



-      IBRD 1T7361F
HUNGARY                  EXISTING FEATURES                              HOSLOVAKIAr
BANK ASSISTED PROJECTS           P,,0R.ods           CZECHOSLOVAKIA            HOSLOVAKIA                           A""r        L 0     U.S.S.R.
PROJECTS                   Ro,.cy, f
ezolwm~~~~~~~~T EdMegye cop.IaIs                                         3 ,!,           =                          J   i  
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
.~~~~~~~~Le ,                                 g 4
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Tonbsyn         -. -PES
t < < < 4 --- Gt 
A6.' 400--  4    b6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA*g , RAA,~,AA18
AUGOSLAVIA                    020CN.                                                                     -                 *AAD      A   TOSS
PE~~~~~~ ROMAN.>VAIAS
ILL   7                                 0      ]
/                                                S.      *A~'~          RAASAIAUAEOA
YUGOSLAVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%IU4~ALRA.
T     ~~~   do   64   80  KILOMETEA  I., ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  ~   I-AF   I






