RESTRICTED
Report No.  P-495
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do. not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FOR A
ROAD PROJECT
TO THE
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
July  15,   1966



INTERNATIONAL DEv7MOPNENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOTIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
DEVELOPi=NT CREDIT FOR A ROAD PROJECT
TO THE V1ALAGASY REPUBLIC
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $10 million to
the Malagasy Republic, to assist in financing a road project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed credit would be the first IDA operation in the
Malagasy Republic. The country became independent in June 1960 and
joined the Bank and IDA in September 1963.
3.        In July 1964 the Malagasy government asked the Association to
consider financing the reconstruction of two sections of the Tananarive-
Hlajunga road. A preliminary appraisal in January-February 1965 indi-
cated good possibilities for a sound project. The government then under-
took to complete the final engineering studies to provide the more
reliable cost estimate on which the appraisal report is based. Negotia-
tions for the proposed credit were completed in Nlashington on April 22,
1966.  The government was represented by a delegation headed by the
Planning Comissioner. On June 2L, 1966 a law was passed authorizing the
government to borrow from the Association the proposed amount.
4.        A $4.1 million Bank loan for an education project is also under
consideration. Negotiations will start when the government has acquired
most of the land required for the project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower       The Malagasy Republic
Amount         Equivalent in various currencies to $10 million.
Purpose        To finance a) the engineering, reconstruction and aspbalt
paving, and supervision of construction of two sections
totalling 160 kms of the National Road No. 4 linking
Tananarive and Majunga; b) Economic feasibility studies
and final engineering of a section of 13 kms of the
National Road No. 4 including a bridge over the Betsiboka
River.



Amortization     The development credit would be for a period of 50
years with no amortization for 10 years. One
half of one percent of the principal amount would
be payable semi-annually from October 15, 1976 to
April 15, 1986, and one half percent semi-annually
from October 15, 1986 to April 15, 2016.
Service charge   3/4 of 1% per annum on the principal amount of the
credit disbursed and outstanding.
PART III - THE PROJECT
5.        A report on the project "Appraisal of a highway reconstruc-
tion project" (To-508 b) is attached. The proposed project has high
priority in the government's highway program. It would greatly im-
prove road transport on one of the most important roads in Madagascar,
linking Tananarive, the capital, with lNajunga, the second largest port.
Savings on transportation costs and maintenance expenditures wlould
together yield a return on the investment estimated at about 11 per
cent. The road passes through important agricultural regions and sub-
stantial benefits from agricultural development should also be derived
from the project.
6.        The project is estimated to cost $12.8 million equivalent.
If the project were carried out by foreign contractors, the estimated
foreign exchange component would be $10 million; if carried out wholly
by locally-based contractors, the foreign exchange component would be
$8.7 million. Although a credit for $10 million would represent some
78% of the total project cost, I do not believe that we should finance
less than the foreign exchange cost in a country like Madagascar and I
consider that the government should be covered against the possibility
of the higher figure.  More generally, although 78% is a high propor-
tion of the total cost of this particular project, the government is
financing out of domestic resources about one-third of its total current
road program and about one-quarter of its total current public invest-
ment program.
7.        Construction of the project would be carried out over a period
of three years 1966-69. The proposed credit would also reimburse expend-
itures incurred by the government since June 1965 to complete the final
engineering studies. Contracts would be submitted to international
competitive bidding.
8.        Road maintenance in MIalagasy has been unsatisfactory in the
past due to insufficient budgetary allocations. However, they have
been increased appreciably in the recent years and the government has
undertaken to increase them further in the light of the recommenda-
tions of a study which is now being carried out by consultants.



- 3 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUEWlfTS AND AUTHORITY
9.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Malagasy
Republic and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article 5, section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
10.       The draft Agreement conforms generally to the pattern of
development credit agreements for projects of this type. Howqever,
certain obligations of the Borrower (other than those regarding re-
payment of the credit) have been limited to the duration of the Agree-
ment or the estimated life of the Project (25 years), whichever shall
be the earlier (Section 6.03).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
11.       A report on the economy of the Malagasy Republic was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on July 11, 1966.
12.       Hala.gasy   faces development problems familiar to many
African countries; rapid population growth, a prospective decline
in export prices, limited natural resources, and a small domestic
market.
13.       Economic growth has been slow in the past 10 years as a
result of poor weather, a fairly low level of investment and diffi-
culties associated with the transition to independence.
1h.       In the next five years Mialagasy should be able to increase
the pace of its development. Political conditions are stable. Gov-
ernment financial policies have been sound, and in the past two or
three years private investors have begun to respond well to new
incentives offered by the Government, notably in industry.
15.       Accelerated growth will also require more public investrment.
A neTew development program has just been started, with high priority being
given to transport and agriculture.   While it might not prove possible
for the Government to achieve its full target for the expansion of
public investment, a significant increase should be feasible if adequate
foreign assistance continues to be forthcoming. As such assistance mill
very probably be required for a number of years, it will be desirable
for the bulk of it to be on soft terms to take account of the still
limited savings of the Malagasy economy and in order to prevent an esca-
lation of the debt service burden, wThich is fairly low at present.



PART VI - C0i,PLIANCE NITH ARTICLES OF AGREAIENT
16.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOP20IIDATION
17.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution.
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of a Development Credit
to the 1.alagasy Republic
(Highway Reconstruction Project) in an amount
equivalent to U.S. dollars 10 million)
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
lialagasy Republic in an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), to mature on and
prior to April 15, 2016, to bear a service charge at the rate
of three fourth.s of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and
to be upon other terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Development Credit Agreement (Road Project) betwTeen the
lialagasy Republic and the Association which.has been presented
to thi.s meeting.
Attachment
liashington, D.C.                                     George D. WJoods
July 1 , 1966                                            President



