CREDIT NUMBER 90 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Roai Project)
BETWEEN
*                    MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 2, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 90 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Road Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 2, 1966


﻿AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1966 between the
MALAGASY REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said Devel-
opment Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being here-
inafter called the Regulations):
(a) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is amended by
deleting the words "at the same rate" and substituting
therefor the words "at the rate of one-half of one per cent
('/ of 1%) per annum".
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Sec-
tion is substituted therefor:
"SECTION 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is
to be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit
are to be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the respective
currencies of the countries from which such goods are
acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:


﻿4
(i) on account of expenditures in currency of the
Borrower or for goods produced in (including
services supplied from) the territories of the
Borrower, in such currency or currencies as
the Association shall from time reasonably
select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which the
cost of the goods financed out of such proceeds
has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from time
to time agree on any other currency in which with-
drawals shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted immediately after
Section 3.03 as follows:
"SECTION 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal
with Other Currency.
If withdrawal shall be made in any currency which
the Association shall have purchased with another
currency for the purpose of such withdrawal, the por-
tion of the Credit so withdrawn shall be deemed to
have been withdrawn from the Credit Account in such
other currency for the purposes of Section 3.03."
(d) Section 3.04 is renumbered as Section 3.05.
(e) Section 8.04 is deleted.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this
Agreement set forth or referred to, a development credit
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten mil-
lion dollars ($10,000,000).


﻿5
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of this Agreement and of the Regulations, to with-
draw from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall be the equivalent of seventy
eight per cent (or such other percentage as may from
time to time be established by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association) of such amounts as shall
have been expended for the reasonable cost of goods re-
quired to carry out the Project; and
(b) if the Association shall so agree, the equivalent of a
like percentage of such amounts as shall be required to
meet payments to be made for the reasonable cost of such
goods;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures prior to June 1, 1965.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1%c) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable


﻿6
on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
1976, and ending April 15, 2016 each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 15, 1986 to be
one-half of one per cent (/ of 1c) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (11 %.) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Creiit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclasively to financing the cost of
goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific goods to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit and the methods
and procedures for procurement of such goods shall be
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or
cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
roads included in the Project shall be constructed by


﻿7
contractors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, employed under contracts satisfactory to the Bor-
rower and the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, in the carrying out of the Project,
employ or cause to be employed engineering consultants
acceptable to, and to an extent and upon terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to, the Association.
(d) The general design standards to be used for the
roads included in the Project shall be as determined from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, and work schedules for the Project
and any material modifications subsequently made therein,
in such detail as the Association shall request.
(f) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project and to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) ; shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect the Project, the goods and any relevant records
and documents; and shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the ex-enditures of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Project and the goods.
(g) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest with regard to the Borrower's highway development
plans and the implementation thereof.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the


﻿8
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall rea-
sonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to in-
terfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SrCTION 4.03. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories and free from all restric-
tions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall, at all times, ade-
quately maintain or cause to be adequately maintained the
main roads in its highway system in accordance with sound


﻿9
engineering practices and with due regard to economic
requirements.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any
subsequent time the Association, at its option, may declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such
principal shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1970 or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 6.02. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by October 31,
1966, this Development Credit Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association, after consideration of the reasons for the
delay, establishes a later date for purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall termi-
nate on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate


﻿10
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
SECTION 6.04. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Miiiistre des Finances et du Commerce
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Ministre Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic
For the Association:
terna mal Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 6.05. The Minister of Finance and Commerce
of the Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section
7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of


﻿11
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By R. G. RALISOIT
Authorized Represcntative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
By J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of:
(a) The engineering, reconstruction, asphalt paving, and
supervision of construction of two sections between
Km 165 and Andramy, presently totalling 160 kms,
of the National Road No. 4 linking Tananarive to
Majunga.
(b) The final design, including a review of the economic
justification, of a section of 13 kms of the National
Road No. 4 between Andramy and Boinakely and of
the bridge over the Betsiboka River at Boinakely.


