Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5046 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (40%); Compulsory pension and 
unemployment insurance (20%);General finance sector (15%); 
Health (15%);General Public Administration Sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P116984 
Borrower(s) 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 10, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 3, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The ongoing international economic crisis has brought to a halt the acceleration of economic activity of 
the last few years in the FYR Macedonia. Following growth rates of close to 6 percent prior to the crisis, 
output growth stagnated over the last three quarters. Industrial production has been declining, business 
confidence has reached low levels and financing conditions have become tighter. This calls for a set of 
policies that will preserve macroeconomic stability and try to mitigate the consequences of the global 
crisis while at the same time better prepare the country to benefit from the recovery once it occurs. 
 
The Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report (CPSPR), presented to the Board in March 2009, 
maintains flexibility to respond promptly and adequately to the evolving economic situation and 
includes the possibility for a DPL to support an endorsable policy response to the global economic 
crisis. The operation builds on the extensive policy dialogue the Bank has had with the authorities and 
includes areas in which the Bank has comparative advantage. In addition, it reflects the nature of Bank 
engagement in the country based on strong partnership and flexibility.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL 1) is the first in a series of two 
programmatic Development Policy Loans (DPLs) designed to be disbursed during calendar years 2009 
and 2010.  
 
The ultimate objective is to support the Government to emerge from the crisis on a stronger footing and 
to resume sustained high growth and convergence in living standards with the rest of Europe. More 
specifically, the operations objectives are to: i) maintain macroeconomic stability; ii) support a fiscal 
policy stance that will provide a sustainable, timely and targeted stimulus to the economy; iii) assist the 
vulnerable in coping with the crisis and iv) maintain stability of the financial sector and ensure adequate 
response in case of systemic risk. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Page  2
The proposed DPL program supports government reforms in fiscal management, social protection and 
the financial sector. These reforms aim to (i) manage the impact of the global crisis by maintaining a 
sound macroeconomic and fiscal framework; (ii) cushion the impact of the crisis on the poor and 
vulnerable by enhancing social protection systems; and (iii) strengthen the contingency planning and 
resilience of the financial sector. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific country policies supported by the Operation are not likely to have significant effects on the 
country’s environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under the loan are primarily 
geared towards supporting government reforms in fiscal management, social protection and the financial 
sector. None of the sectors included in the Operation are expected to have any direct significant links to 
the environment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact points 
Contact: Evgenij Najdov 
 
 
 
 
Contact: Marina Wes 
Title: 
Sr 
Country 
Economist 
    Title: 
Lead 
Economist 
Tel: 5250+245 / 389-2-311-7159 
 
 
 
Tel: 5265+706 
Fax: 
 
       Fax: 
Email: 
enajdov@worldbank.org
Email: 
mwes@worldbank.org
Location: 
Skopje, 
(IBRD) 
    Location: 
Belgrade, 
(IBRD)
 
