                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                     Report No: ICR00001958



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                    (LOAN NO 7829-MK, GRANT NO TF096329)

                                       FOR

          THE FIRST PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                  IN A TOTAL AMOUNT OF EUR 20.5 MILLION
                        (US $30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

             THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA


                                   JUNE 29 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (ECSP2)
South East Europe country Unit (ECCU4)
Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
                              GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1-December 31

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 30, 2011)
                         Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
                                    US$1 = MKD 43.2
                           Weights and Measures: Metric system
                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BBP    Basic Benefits Package                       IPA      Instrument for Pre-Accession
CB     Cash Benefits                                ISA      Insurance Supervision Agency
CCT    Conditional Cash Transfers                   LDP      Letter of Development Policy
CEM    Country Economic Memorandum                  LFS      Labor Force Survey
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability             MLSP     Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
       Assessment                                   MOF      Ministry of Finance
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability             MOH      Ministry of Health
       Assessment                                   MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
CPAR   Country Procurement Assessment Report        NATO     North Atlantic Treaty Organization
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy                 NBRM     National Bank of the Republic of
DIF    Deposit Insurance Fund                                Macedonia
DPL    Development Policy Loan                      NPL      Non-Performing Loan
DRG    Diagnosis-Related Group                      NTR      Non-Tax Revenues
EBF    Extra Budgetary Fund                         OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation
EBRD   European Bank for Reconstruction and                  and Development
       Development                                  PBG      Policy Based Guarantee
ECA    Europe and Central Asia Region               PDIF     Pension and Disability Insurance Fund
ECB    European Central Bank                        PCL      Precautionary Credit Line
ESW    Economic and Sector Work                     PDO      Program Development Objective
FDI    Foreign Direct Investment                    PER      Public Expenditure Review
FSAP   Financial Sector Assessment Program          PIT      Personal Income Tax
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                       PRO      Public Revenues Office
GoRM   Government of the Republic of                SAO      State Audit Office
       Macedonia                                    SIC      Social Insurance Contribution Rate
HBS    Household Budget Survey                      SP       Social Protection
HCI    Health Care Institution                      SPIL     Social Protection and Implementation
HIF    Health Insurance Fund                                 Loan
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction        SRA      Special Revenue Accounts
       and Development                              SWC      Social Welfare Center
ICRR   Implementation Completion and Results        TSA      Treasury Single Account
       Report                                       TA       Technical Assistance
IFC    International Finance Corporation            TF       Trust Fund
IMF    International Monetary Fund                  VAT      Value Added Tax

                         Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou, ECAVP
                      Country Director:    Jane Armitage, ECCU4
                        Sector Director:   Yvonne M. Tsikata, ECSPE
                       Sector Manager:     Satu Kahkonen, ECSP2
                    Task Team Leaders:     Evgenij Najdov/Marina Wes, ECSP2
                    ICRR Team Leader       Evgenij Najdov, ECSP2
                      THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                     FIRST PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                      (Loan No 7829-MK Grant No TF 096329)

                                                          CONTENTS

Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring



1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 7 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 17 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 18 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 19 
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 21 
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .................................................................. 22 
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).......................................... 23 
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 24 
Annex 5: Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 28 
Annex 6: List of persons interviewed ............................................................................... 29 

MAP
                                                DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information

First Programmatic Development Policy Loan 7289-MK

Country: FYR Macedonia                                   Program Name: First Programmatic Development
                                                         Policy Loan
Program ID: P116984.                                     L/C/TF Number(s): IBRD-7829MK; TF096329

ICRR Date: June 30, 2011                                 ICR Type: Core ICR

Lending Instrument: DPL                                  Borrower: The Former Yugoslav Republic of
                                                         Macedonia
Original Total Commitment: EUR 20.5 Million              Disbursed Amount: EUR 20.5 Million

Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance

Co-financiers and Other External Partners: Co-financed (EUR 7 million) by the Netherlands Trust
Fund with the Bank acting as administrator.

B. Key Dates

First Programmatic Development Policy Loan 7289-MK
     Process                  Date                   Process             Original Date          Revised/Actual
                                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:      September 17, 2009       Effectiveness:          April 1, 2010          April 1, 2010
Appraisal:           October 14, 2009         Restructuring(s):       NA                     NA
Approval:            December 15, 2009        Mid-term Review:        NA                     NA
                                              Closing:                December 31, 2010 December 31, 2010

C. Ratings Summary1

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcome:                                               Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                           Moderate
Bank Performance:                                      Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                  Satisfactory




1
 All ratings given by the ICR should use a six-point rating scale (Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly Unsatisfactory), except for the rating of Risk to
Development Outcome that use a four-point scale (Negligible to Low, Moderate, Significant, High).

                                                         i
 C.2 Detailed ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
 First Programmatic Development Policy Loan 7289-MK
             Bank                     Ratings                       Borrower                     Ratings
 Quality at Entry:                 Satisfactory       Government:                            Satisfactory
 Quality of Supervision:           Satisfactory       Implementation Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory
 Overall Bank Performance:         Satisfactory       Overall Borrower Performance:          Satisfactory



C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
First Programmatic Development Policy Loan 7289-MK
       Implementation Performance                 Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating
Potential Prob. Program at any time                   No         Quality at Entry (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any time(Yes/No):                  No         Quality of Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:
Implementation Performance                                       QAG Assessments (if any)
Potential Prob. Program at any time                   No         Quality at Entry (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any time(Yes/No):                  No         Quality of Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:         Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes

                      First Programmatic Development Policy Loan 7289-MK
                             Sector Name code and % of Bank Financing
Sector name                                                 Code       Original                   Actual
Central Government Administration                           BC         33                         33
Other Social Services                                       JB         33                         33
Comp Pension/Unemployment                                   BE         17                         17
Health                                                      JA         17                         17

Theme name
Public Expenditure Financial Management and Procurement             27             33             33
Social Safety Nets                                                  54             17             17
Tax Policy and Administration                                       28             17             17
Health System Performance                                           67             17             17
Other Economic Management                                           24             16             16




                                                     ii
E. Bank Staff

          Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
 Vice President:            Philippe H Le Houerou             Philippe H Le Houerou
 Country Director:          Jane Armitage                     Jane Armitage
 Sector Director:           Yvonne M. Tsikata                 Luca Barbone
 Sector Manager:            Satu Kahkonen                     Bernard Funck
 TTL:                       Evgenij Najdov                    Evgenij Najdov/Marina Wes
 ICRR Team Leader:          Evgenij Najdov
 ICRR Primary Author        Sudhir Chitale

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objective:

The First Development Policy Loan (DPL1) was envisaged as the first of a two-loan series ,
designed to achieve the following three objectives: (i) ensure the budget supports
macroeconomic stability by improving public expenditure outcomes; (ii) ensure adequate support
to vulnerable groups by reforming the social safety net and improving its administration; and (iii)
ensure systemic risks in the banking sector are identified timely and corrective action is
undertaken by strengthening the resilience of the sector. During the preparation of the second
operation, DPL2, the authorities requested a Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) rather than a loan
(see Section 2.4 for a discussion of the reasons). In line with the Bank’s policies on DPL lending
and guarantees, the DPL series was terminated after DPL1 (April 2011), and the DPL2 was
converted to a stand-alone PBG operation, with largely the same policy matrix as originally
envisaged under the DPL2. Since the DPL series was terminated, as per Bank guidelines, this
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR) was prepared for the DPL1. The
progress towards the specific development objectives measured by the results indicators and
benchmarks set in the Program Document (PD) for the DPL1 is presented below. Wherever
needed, the results matrix recognizes that since the DPL1 was the first of a two-operation series,
many of the results indicators were set to be met only after completion of reforms implemented
under the combined program envisaged for DPL1 and DPL2 (now PBG).




                                                iii
(a) PDO Indicators

Note: Detailed PDO indicators are presented in Table 6: DPL1 Results Matrix in the main text of the ICR.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators:

Not applicable

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

Not applicable. There was no ISR for DPL1. Supervision was undertaken as part of the
preparation of the follow-up operation (previously DPL2 now PBG).

H. Restructuring

Not applicable




                                                   iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

The First Programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL1) was requested by the Government
when the international economic crisis brought to a halt the acceleration of economic activity in
the former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia in the second half of 2008. As the crisis
spread through the region, FYR Macedonia faced a sharp fall in the demand for and prices of its
main exports and a fall in FDI flows. Consequently, following growth rates of close to 6 percent
in 2007 and the first three quarters of 2008, real GDP fell by 0.9 percent in 2009. In 2009,
exports dropped sharply by nearly 11 percent, industrial production dropped by 8 percent, FDI
declined by nearly 70 percent from US$ 600 million to US$ 186 million, business confidence
fell2, financing conditions became tighter and labor market performance deteriorated. Fiscal
accounts were also adversely affected. Tax revenues fell sharply by nearly 2 percentage points
of GDP over 2008-2010. Finally, there was great uncertainty about the intensity of the crisis and
how long it would last.

Strong reforms and prudent macroeconomic policies in years prior to the crisis provided some
buffers against the immediate impact of the crisis. Still, policies had to be adjusted considerably.
Furthermore, any effort to address the macroeconomic crisis had to go hand in hand with policies
to protect the poor. Poverty was persistent and did not decline significantly even during the high
growth period before the crisis3. Moreover, although on a declining trend, unemployment was
high at 34 percent of the labor force in 2008. Most of the jobs created during the robust growth
phase prior to the crisis were low paid jobs or unpaid family work and did not contribute to
poverty reduction. As a result, FYR Macedonia was experiencing a growing number of working
poor.

The authorities proactively responded to the crisis to stem the fall in output. In response to a
collapse in exports, industrial production, FDI, and the general decline in business confidence,
the Government carried out a sizable fiscal stimulus in late 2008 and in early 2009. In addition,
a moratorium on tax and interest liabilities was introduced to help businesses facing liquidity
shortages, customs duties were reduced and a multiyear infrastructure program was announced.
However, by April 2009, it was becoming evident that tax revenue outturns were lower than
projected earlier. In response, the Government cut expenditures to match the projected shortfall
in tax revenues of almost 3.2 percent of GDP. It introduced two supplementary budgets in April
and October 2009. These measures helped preserved the fiscal deficit target of 2.8 percent of
GDP in 2009. The expenditure restructuring was achieved by: lowering spending on less
productive capital investments, lowering goods and services spending, and a freeze on public
sector wages and employment. At the same time, the Government was careful to maintain
allocations for the well targeted social transfers to protect the poor and reduce social insurance

2
  The assessment of the current situation by businesses began to decline rapidly in early 2009 and by November
2009 it fell to -18.4, compared to the high of 12 in August 2008. The assessment fell further to -19.2 by March 2010,
before beginning to recover.
3
  Regional experience indicates that poverty responds to growth but generally with a lag. Furthermore, this
coincided with the 2008 surge in world oil and food prices which off-set the impact of higher employment and
wages.

                                                         1
contributions to help employment and competitiveness. This fiscal strategy was continued in the
2010 budget which targeted a fiscal deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP. Despite the increase in fiscal
deficits to 2.8 and 2.5 percent of GDP in 2009 and 2010, respectively, from less than 1 percent in
2008, and small surpluses before that, FYR Macedonia still had one of the lowest fiscal deficits
in Europe and Central Asia (ECA). As per the most recent debt sustainability analysis which
envisages a gradual reduction in the deficit level over the medium-term to around 1 percent of
GDP, FYR Macedonia’s fiscal deficit remains in line with sustainable long-term solvency
indicators and available financing.

As a result of the prudent regulation and supervision in the period before the crisis, FYR
Macedonia entered the crisis with a resilient banking sector. The capital adequacy ratio was
high, non performing assets were falling4 and were adequately provisioned, and the liquidity
across the sector was high. The commercial banks were largely financed by domestic deposits
and as a result, an abrupt credit crunch was avoided. Hence the focus of Government polices
was on creating a responsive crisis resolution framework rather than specific measures to
manage the financial sector.

The Bank was well placed to quickly assist the Government in responding to the crisis through
the DPL1. First, the Bank had already worked closely with the Government through a series of
three budget support operations over 2005-2008; the Programmatic Development Policy Loans
(PDPL 1, 2 and 3) for a total of US$ 85 million5. In addition the Bank was also engaged in
implementing a Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Loan and a Social Protection Implementation
Loan (SPIL), both of which supported the reform of the social safety net. Second, the Bank had
carried out considerable analytical work (including a Country Economic Memorandum, Public
Expenditure Review, Poverty Assessment, a set of Labor Market Policy Notes, Financial Sector
Assessment Program Report etc.) which informed the next phase of reforms pursued by the
government in addressing the crisis. Drawing on this work, the Bank was well-placed to quickly
prepare a policy note in 2009, which specifically analyzed the crisis and outlined reform
priorities. These formed the basis of the program supported by the DPL1.

The DPL1 was approved in December 2009 on the basis of prior actions implemented during the
course of 2009. The Loan Agreement with the Bank was signed in March 2010. The operation
was declared effective and the Euro 20.5 million loan amount was withdrawn in a single tranche
on April 20, 2010. The Bank’s operation was co-financed by a Euro 7 million grant provided by
the Government of Netherlands. The Administration Agreement between the Bank and the
Donor was signed in December 2009 followed by the signing of the Grant Agreement between
the Bank and FYR Macedonia in March 2010 and disbursement of the funds in April 2010.

As mentioned before, the DPL1 was envisaged as the first of the two development policy lending
operations which were to be executed sequentially in 2009 and 2010. The operation was
designed: (i) to help the Government maintain a sound macroeconomic and fiscal framework,
while implementing measures to improve public expenditure outcomes and to improve
competitiveness; (ii) to cushion the impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable; and (iii) to
4
  Non-performing loans were 6.5 percent of all loans by the third quarter of 2008 down from 7.5 percent at the end
of 2007 and historically the lowest level registered.
5
  Prior to the PDPL series the Bank had supported the Government’s reform program in the Public sector through
the Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit and Loan (PSMAC and PSMAL).

                                                        2
strengthen the resilience of the financial sector. It focused on three policy areas and contained six
prior actions and six benchmarks. However, since it was the first of a two operation series, many
of the results indicators in the Program Document (PD) were set to be met only after completion
of the entire program (including reforms to be implemented under DPL2). However, during the
preparation of the DPL2, the authorities requested a Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) rather than a
loan. In line with the Bank’s policies on DPL lending and guarantees, the DPL series was
terminated after DPL1 (April 2011), and DPL2 was converted to a stand-alone PBG operation,
with largely the same policy matrix as originally envisaged under the DPL2. Since the DPL
series was terminated, as per Bank guidelines this ICRR was prepared for the DPL1.

The DPL series of loans is an important component of the Banks Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) and was identified in the March 2009 CPS Progress Report.             The DPL1 operation
contributed to the following CPS outcomes: (i) labor market: increasing flexibility of labor
market outcomes and decreasing the tax wedge; (ii) health: improving the efficiency and
transparency of Health Insurance Fund Operations; and (iii) social protection: improving
administration and targeting of cash benefits and strengthen the pension system.

The Bank maintains a close working relationship with the IMF resulting in largely shared views
on the economic situation. The IMF provided an assessment letter to the Bank6 endorsing the
Government’s macroeconomic policies, which was attached to the Program Document of the
Operation. Since then, on the grounds of the country’s sound macroeconomic fundamentals
(including a moderate fiscal stance and adequate monetary policy), limited balance of payments
needs and generally favorable economic prospects; the IMF Board approved a Euro 475.6
million Precautionary Line of Credit (PCL) in January 2011. The PCL was originally approved
as an insurance mechanism in case of an “unexpected balance of payment shock”. Since then,
however, the Government decided that the 2011 budget deficit is best financed by external
resources to avoid crowding out domestic credit to the private sector; however, the authorities
also faced constraints accessing the capital markets7. Consequently in early 2011, the
Government withdrew Euro 220 million from the Euro 475.6 million available under the PCL.

The Bank has maintained a robust dialogue with the donor community on issues related to the
DPL. The Bank team benefitted from regular consultation with the IMF, the USAID and the
European Commission (EC). Finally, the DPL1 was co-financed by the Dutch Government. In
addition to the budget support, the Dutch also provided technical assistance (TA) funds to
finance analytical work, including in the health and financial sectors.
1.2     Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved):

The Government’s program supported by the DPL1 had three development objectives. The
measures implemented to achieve these and the performance indicators, as presented in the PD
and in the legal documents, were grouped under three “pillars” as indicated below:




6
 The letter was attached to the PD.
7
 Financial turmoil in selected Eurozone countries kept borrowing costs high and access limited. In addition, the
declaration of early elections for June 5, 2011, prevented the authorities from incurring new debt.

                                                         3
Pillar 1

The budget supports macroeconomic stability. This was to be achieved by implementing an
overall fiscal policy stance supportive of macroeconomic stability as well as by implementing
measures to improve public expenditure outcomes. The key performance indicators for this PDO
were:
         Government approval of the draft budget for 2010 with a target budget deficit of 2.5
          percent of GDP.
         Implement first stage of tax reform by reducing social insurance contributions from 32.5
          percent of gross wage in 2008 to 28.4 percent in 2009.
         Government approval of draft amendments to the Law on Health Insurance to establish a
          treasury function for the public health sector within the Health Insurance Fund.
         Freeze nominal wage and employment for the employees funded from the central
          government budget, at least throughout 2009.

Pillar 2

Ensure adequate support to vulnerable groups and improve administration of social safety
system. This was to be achieved by reforming the social safety net and improving its
administration. The key performance indicators for this PDO were:
         Levels of spending for social protection maintained at the level set forth by the original
          2009 budget in all its subsequent supplementary budgets adopted for this year.
         Enact new Law on Social Protection to establish a framework to improve the regulation
          of cash benefits, to streamline the procedures for the administration of social safety net
          programs and enable further harmonization of the said programs and to enable rapid
          response to crisis.

Pillar 3

Systemic risks are identified timely and corrective action is undertaken. This was to be
achieved by strengthening the resilience of the financial sector. The key performance indicator
for this PDO was:
         Endorsement of an MOU on crisis preparedness outlining key responsibilities and
          coordination mechanisms is obtained from all stakeholders.

1.3        Revised PDOs and Key Indicators

          There were no revisions.

1.4       Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The policy areas supported by the DPL1 were grouped into three “pillars” as shown below. Each
of these policy areas contained measures which constituted prior actions for DPL1 as per legal
documents as well as benchmarks to measure progress of the reform program. Since DPL1 was
a one tranche operation, from a strictly legal point of view, all prior actions were met before the

                                                  4
loan was submitted to the Board (see Table 1). In addition, as indicated in Table 1, all the
benchmarks for DPL1 set in the PD have also been met. As originally designed, the DPL1 was
the first of two lending operations. Hence the measures implemented under the DPL1 were the
first cut of a program that continued to be implemented and forms a basis for the Policy Based
Guarantee (PBG) operation currently under preparation. The impact of the measures
implemented under the DPL1 and their follow up is discussed in Section 3.2, on “achievement of
program development objectives”.

            Table 1: Policy Areas, Prior Actions and Benchmarks Supported by the DPL1
 Policy Areas supported          Prior Actions as per the Program              Benchmarks as per the Program
           by DL1                              Document                                     Document
Pillar 1                       Approve a draft budget for 2010 with a     Implement the 2009 Budget in line with
Implement budgetary            deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP. (Met)       the deficit target stipulated in the second
policies to support                                                       supplementary budget. (Met)
macroeconomic stability by     Implement the first stage of payroll tax
improving public               reform by reducing the social insurance    Establish Inter-Ministerial committee on
expenditure outcomes.          contributions from 32.5 percent of GDP     public administration. (Met)
                               in 2008 to 28.4 percent of GDP in
                               2009. (Met)                                Initiate analysis of the impact of labor
                                                                          taxation reforms on the sustainability of the
                               Approve draft amendments to the            pension system. (Met)
                               Health Insurance Law which establish a
                               treasury function for the public health    Amend Pension and Disability Insurance
                               sector within the Health Insurance         Law to improve the current sustainability
                               Fund. (Met)                                of the PAYG system (reduce indexation
                                                                          coefficient from 50:50 CPI: Wages; to
                               Freeze nominal wages and employment        50:20 in 2009). (Met)
                               for employees funded from the Central
                               Government Budget throughout 2009.         Initiate an analysis of the impact of labor
                               (Met)                                      taxation reforms on the sustainability of the
                                                                          health system. (Met)
Pillar 2                       Maintain levels of spending for social
Ensure adequate support to     protection at levels set forth in the
vulnerable groups by           original 2009 budget in all its
reforming the social safety    subsequent Supplementary Budgets
net and improving its          adopted during 2009. (Met)
administration.
                               Enact a new law on social protection to
                               establish a framework to improve the
                               regulation of cash benefits, streamline
                               the procedures for the administration of
                               social safety net programs and enable
                               further harmonization of the said
                               programs to enable rapid response to
                               crisis. (Met)

Pillar 3                                                                  Obtain an endorsement from all
Enable timely                                                             stakeholders of a MOU on crisis
identification of systemic                                                preparedness, outlining key responsibilities
risks and undertake                                                       and coordination mechanisms. (Met)
corrective action by
strengthening the resilience
of the financial sector.
Source: DPL1, Program Document.

                                                          5
1.5    Revised Policy Areas:

Not applicable

1.6    Other significant changes:

Not applicable

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Program Performance:

The full amount of the DPL1 (Euro 20.5 million) was disbursed in a single tranche on April 20,
2010. The Dutch Government co-financing of Euro 7 million was also disbursed in a single
tranche at the same time.

The program supported by the DPL1(see Table 1 above) contained six prior actions and six
benchmarks focusing on three policy areas. It was implemented timely and effectively reflecting
the Government’s commitment to the program as well as the Bank’s ability to rapidly respond to
the request of the client by providing sound policy advice and financing as well as leveraging
support from other donors. All actions under the program were implemented as initially
envisaged.

2.2    Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

There were four factors which contributed to the successful implementation of the operation.
First, the Government was committed to the program. The authorities had a clear long term
vision for development building on sound macroeconomic fundamentals and ambitious reform.
Furthermore, the main development objectives were largely shared across party lines. The
Government also had a consultation process with labor, representatives of the business sector and
other important stakeholders. Second, the program (the prior actions) was based on extensive
analytical work which was discussed and agreed upon with the Government. This included the
CEM, the PER, the Poverty Assessment, the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), and
most importantly a policy note prepared specifically to define an appropriate policy response to
the crisis. In addition, valuable support was provided by the Dutch technical assistance TF,
especially in the health and financial sectors. Third, the operation was well designed taking into
account lessons learnt from the earlier PDPL series. The operation set clear and achievable
objectives focusing on only six prior actions and six benchmarks. Fourth, FYR Macedonia was
fortunate that the global crisis receded during 2010 and 2011. This resulted in restoration of
growth (albeit low) and improvement in export performance and current account deficit, which
precluded implementation of further harsher fiscal measures.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) systems in FYR Macedonia are evolving. In general,
while individual ministries and institutions have made progress in developing their M&E
systems, they tend to operate in silos. Therefore, The Government still has some way to go

                                                6
before it can have a coherent system of integrating the data and messages from individual
agencies for overall policy formulation and implementation. The implementation experience
shows that it was relatively straightforward to monitor macroeconomic outcomes, budgetary
allocations and outturns, the pension system developments and the developments in the financial
sector, where the National Bank of Republic of Macedonia (NBRM) has the capability to track
developments. While basic information on the effectiveness of policies in the health sector and
the social safety net can be extracted from the household budget survey (HBS), the quality of
monitoring the performance indicators in these sectors need to improve further. The
overwhelming focus of these agencies is on formulating and spending budgets rather than on
tracking outcomes; a shortcoming that the DPL1 attempted to address. The Government has
some way to go before the authorities can generate policy-oriented indicators, such as tracking
out of pocket payments going to vulnerable segments of the population (a results indicator set for
the overall DPL program). Similarly, while much progress has been made (supported by a Bank
project) in developing databases of the social cash benefit recipients and establishing network
between the Social Welfare Centers and the Ministry, it will take some time until it is able to
track cash benefits going to vulnerable sections of the population and the processing time; both
outcome indicators for the overall DPL program.

2.4    Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

The DPL1 was the first in a series of two operations designed to be sequentially disbursed in
2010 and 2011. The reform program defined in the PD continues to be pursued and the policy
matrix for the DPL series largely forms the basis of the next operation. For the next operation,
the Government requested a standalone Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) rather than a loan
(DPL2) as originally envisaged. The PBG is considered a preferred instrument for the following
reasons. First, although FYR Macedonia’s macroeconomic situation has stabilized and the
financial system has weathered the crisis well, being a small country with some neighboring
economies in severe financial difficulties, FYR Macedonia continues to face market access
challenges. The 2009 Eurobond was issued at unfavorable terms and efforts to tap the bond
market in 2010 were not successful. The use of an IBRD guarantee would help the Government
of FYR Macedonia improve its access to international financial markets at lower cost and longer
maturities. Second, given that access is an issue and FYR Macedonia’s financing needs are
high, the PBG would allow FYR Macedonia to access larger amounts of financing than the
alternative of US$ 30 million DPL. Third, the PBG presents an opportunity to expand the
investor base on relatively favorable terms and is expected to have positive spillover effects for
corporate borrowers.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

The DPL1 had clear and relevant objectives -- to respond to the crisis by maintaining
macroeconomic stability, protect the vulnerable from the inevitable expenditure cuts and
strengthen the resilience of the financial sector. The design of the operation was simple;
focusing on three reform areas linked to the Government’s ongoing reform program and

                                                7
contained six prior actions and six benchmarks. The DPL1 operation was quickly processed and
was in the nature of a first cut of an ongoing reform program which continues to be pursued and
now forms a basis of the PBG operation.

3.2      Achievement of Program Development Objectives:

Macroeconomic framework. Maintaining a viable macroeconomic framework was one of the
overall objectives of the Government’s program supported by the Bank. At the time of approval
of the DPL1, the PD had evaluated and judged the macroeconomic framework to be appropriate
and this view was endorsed in the assessment letter from the IMF. Since then, as a result of the
fiscal and monetary policies followed by the Government, and improved external environment as
the crisis receded, the macroeconomic situation has improved8. As indicated in Table 1, GDP
grew by 0.7 percent in 20109 compared to a mild contraction in 2009 and is projected to grow by
3.5 percent in 2011. Exports grew by about 24.3 percent in 2010 resulting in a marked
improvement in the current account. There was also some recovery in FDI flows which financed
the current account deficit and restored the foreign exchange reserves to around five months of
imports by end-2010. Recent debt sustainability analysis (undertaken as part of the preparation
of the PBG in early 2011) indicates that the gross external debt of about 60 percent of GDP and
Government debt of 24.8 percent of GDP in 2010, should be sustainable under most plausible
economic scenarios.

                          Table 2: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators (2007-2011)
                                                           2007       2008     2009      2010        2011 Proj.
          National Accounts
            GDP ($ Billion)                                 8.1        9.8      9.3       9.1           10.2
            Real GDP Growth (%)                             6.1        5.0      -0.9      0.7            3.0
          Fiscal Accounts (% of GDP)
            Revenues                                        32.7      33.1      31.4     31.1           33.0
            Expenditures                                    32.1      34.0      34.0     33.5           35.5
               Wages and Salaries                                      8.9      10.0      9.8            9.6
               Social Expenditures (MKD Billion)             2.8       2.9       2.8      2.9            3.9
            Fiscal Balance                                   0.6      -0.9      -2.7     -2.5           -2.5
            Government Debt                                 24.0      20.7      23.9     24.8           26.2
          External Accounts (% of GDP)
            Exports of Goods and Services                   52.4     50.9       39.2     47.7           49.6
            Imports of Goods and Services                   70.8     76.2       60.8     66.5           69.0
            Current Account Balance                         -7.4     -12.6      -6.5     -2.9           -4.6
            FDI ($ million)                                 700       601       186      296
            Official Reserves (Months of Imports)            5.1      3.7        5.4      5.0            4.5
          External Debt
            Gross External Debt (% of GDP)                  47.6      49.3      56.5     62.4           59.0
            Debt Service (as % of Export of G&S)            16.4       7.2      10.1     10.0           9.0
          Consumer Prices (Period Average)                  2.3       8.3       -0.8      1.6            5.0
          Source: Ministry of Finance, NBRM and State Statistics Office, World Bank staff for projections.


8
  Government’s macroeconomic policies were endorsed by the IMF in their most recent Article IV consultation
concluded in November 2010.
9
  During 2010 there was a steady acceleration of growth from -1.7 percent, on an annual basis, in the first quarter of
2009 to 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009; resulting in growth of 0.7 percent for the year as a whole.

                                                             8
As discussed below, the Government has largely succeeded in achieving most of these PDOs of
the DPL1 in line with the results anticipated in the PD. However, achieving some of the
expected results will depend on reforms currently ongoing and supported by the PBG (previously
DPL2).

Pillar 1.   Implement Budgetary Policies to Support Macroeconomic Stability through
Improving Public Expenditure Outcomes.

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government met the PDOs set for this pillar in the PD. Overall deficit targets have been
met, as well as targets for limiting public sector wages and salaries and reducing social insurance
contributions. As discussed in detail below, the measures in the context of the DPL1 are only a
first cut of measures necessary for achieving longer-term financial sustainability. The financial
situation of pension and health funds, although somewhat improved, continues to remain fragile
and will require sustained policy measures and institutional reforms (including some planned
under the PBG) to make these funds fully financially sustainable.

Maintain the 2010 budget deficit at 2.5 percent of GDP. Government’s challenge in
responding to the crisis was to maintain the overall budget deficit at levels that would provide
some support to the economy but remain in line with financing and solvency constraints, while at
the same time, continuing with restructuring of expenditures to improve conditions in the labor
market and protect critical social expenditures for vulnerable groups. The Government
responded to the crisis by announcing a number of measures in late 2008 and early 2009. A
sizable fiscal stimulus was undertaken in late 2008. In addition, measures were introduced to
help firms facing liquidity problems due to liabilities towards the public sector, but also included
reduction of customs duties and additional tax exemptions (including on corporate income tax).
However, by April 2009, it was becoming evident that tax revenue outturns were lower than
projected earlier. In response, the Government introduced two supplementary budgets in April
and October 2009. The April and October supplementary budgets kept the fiscal deficit target at
2.8 percent of GDP in 2009 and restructured expenditures to match the projected shortfall in tax
revenues of almost 3.2 percent of GDP. The expenditure restructuring was achieved by:
decreasing spending on less productive capital investments, decreasing goods and services
spending and a freeze on public sector wages and employment. In parallel the Government was
careful to maintain allocations for the well performing social transfers to protect the poor and
reduce social insurance contributions to help employment and competitiveness. This fiscal
strategy continued in the 2010 budget, which targeted a fiscal deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP.

Results: As a result of the measures implemented above, as indicated in Table 2, the fiscal
deficit was 2.7 percent of GDP in 2009, below the targeted deficit of 2.8 percent of GDP.
Similarly, the 2010 fiscal deficit target of 2.5 percent of GDP was also met. The fiscal policies
pursued by the authorities during this period allowed the central government to keep its debt low
at 24.8 percent of GDP by end-2010 and below the DPL1 target of 29 percent of GDP. Despite
the increase in fiscal deficits to 2.7 and 2.5 percent of GDP in 2009 and 2010, respectively, from
less than 1 percent in 2008, and small surpluses before that, FYR Macedonia still had one of the
lowest fiscal deficits in Europe and Central Asia (ECA). The most recent debt sustainability

                                                 9
analysis (performed as part of the preparation of the PBG operation in early 2011) indicates that
FYR Macedonia’s fiscal deficit remains in line with sustainable long-term solvency indicators
and available financing.

Freeze the nominal wages and employment in 2009. This was a difficult and an unpopular
policy measure because the Government had to defer the third installment of a three year 10
percent p.a. increase in public sector salaries. In addition, the Government froze all new
employment10, with the exception of new employment on the grounds of the implementation of
the Ohrid Framework Agreement and the European integration processes.

Results. As a result of these measures, total wage and salaries11 were kept below the DPL1
benchmark of 10.5 percent of GDP in 2009 and 2010 (Table 2) and is estimated to have fallen to
9.8 percent of GDP by 2010. At the same time, other spending categories were also tightly
controlled. Spending on goods and services was cut to 3.5 percent of GDP in 2010 (down from
4.6 percent in 2008), while capital expenditures were reduced to around 3.5 percent of GDP
(down from 4.9 percent in 2008 but still close to the average for the period before).
Reduce social insurance contributions. Overall labor taxation in the form of social insurance
contributions of 32.5 percent of gross wages for the average wage earner in 2008, while not
excessive by regional standards, did act as a powerful disincentive for formal employment
(especially for low-wage labor) and was one of the reasons behind the high unemployment rate
(34 percent of the labor force) in 2008. The labor tax wedge was also slightly regressive since
low-wage workers (earning less than 50 percent of the average wage) paid their social insurance
contributions on 50 percent of the average wage rather than the actual wage. To address these
issues, the Government introduced a comprehensive reform aimed to streamline wage payment,
introduce greater transparency and reduce the labor costs.

                   Table 3: Social Insurance contributions as a Percentage of Gross Wage
                                                                2008        2009       2010   2011
             Social Insurance Contributions (SIC) as a          32.5        28.4       27.0   27.0
             % of gross wage
             o/w
               Pension Insurance contribution                   21.2        19.0       18.0   18.0
               Health Insurance contribution                     9.7         8.0        7.8   7.6
               Unemployment Insurance contribution              1.6         1.4        1.2    1.2
             Memorandum Item
             Unemployment Rate (for age 15-64)                  34.0        32.3       32.2
             Source: Ministry of Finance


Results. As of January, 2009, total social insurance contribution (SICs) rates were reduced from
32.5 percent of the gross salary to 28.4 percent, a prior action for DPL1 (Table 3). Going ahead,
the SICs were further reduced to 27 percent of the gross salary in 2010. Originally the
Government had planned to reduce contributions to almost 22.5 percent in 2011. However in

10
     These policies were implemented through a decree issued by the Government.
11
     Refers to the wage bill of the General government and the public health sector.

                                                           10
view of the financial sustainability of the pension and health insurance funds, the SIC rates were
maintained at 27 percent12 in 2011. In addition to the reduction in SIC contributions, the
Government broadened the tax base by including fringe benefits, harmonizing income bases for
social security, and moving from a net wage to a gross wage basis for calculating contributions.
The reduction in social contributions is probably one of the reasons behind the relatively
moderate impact of the crisis on the unemployment rate and is also expected to improve the
competitiveness of the economy over the medium term.

Reaffirm the sustainability of the pension system. The 2008 PER concluded that although the
pension system was generally financially sustainable as a result of reforms during the last decade
(including measures supported by the SPIL), number of challenges remained. Moreover, some
measures implemented prior to the crisis had further strained the affordability of the system.
These included: (i) more generous indexation of pensions using the 50:50 ratio (Consumer Price
Index (CPI): wages indexation) instead of 80:20; and (ii) additional ad-hoc increases of pensions.
In addition, the labor market impact of the crisis as well as the reduction in the pension insurance
contribution rate from 21.2 percent of the gross wages in 2008 to 18 percent in 2010, further
adversely affected the financial sustainability of the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund
(PDIF).

To ensure the fiscal sustainability of the pension system, the government introduced a number of
measures over 2009 and 2010. First, after reviewing the financial sustainability of the pension
system in light of the new environment, the government substantially slowed down the originally
planned reduction in pension insurance contributions (see Para. 30). Second, the indexation
formula was amended from 50:50 to 50:20 in 2009 to limit the impact of the change in the wage
definition on pension growth. Third, valorization coefficients were revised in the pension
determination formula for the wages received during the 2009-2011 period and fourth, eligibility
criteria for survivor pensions were tightened generating expenditure savings.

Results. As a result of these measures, the sustainability of the pension system improved
somewhat by end-2010: (i) the replacement rate in the pension system was reduced from a
baseline of 55 percent in 2008 to 47.5 percent in 201013; and (ii) pension spending was
maintained at less than 9 percent of GDP in 2010. These results are in line with the targets set in
the PD.

Even with these reforms in place, the viability of the pension system needs to be strengthened
further. While the labor market impact of the crisis was generally moderate, formal employment
was hit in 2009 and has not fully recovered. The number of workers with paid pension
contributions fell from 418,958 persons in 2008 to 407,887 in 2009. Since then, with the gradual
recovery of the labor market the number of contributors has increased to 413,797 at the end of
2010. Drawing on the actuarial analysis and the analysis of the impact of the planned reduction
in contribution rates carried out in the context of the DPL1, the government may need to
formulate and introduce additional measures to safeguard the system.

12
   This flexibility was anticipated and built in the design of the DPL series. The analysis and the discussions carried
out by Bank staff contributed to the moderation of the planned reductions in the SIC.
13
   More than half of the reduction, or about 3-4 percentage points can be attributed to the redefinition of wages in
2009 to include benefits. The rest, about 2-3 percentage points is a real reduction in pension benefits and will help
the financial sustainability of the pension system.

                                                         11
                      Table 4: Financial Sustainability of the Pension System
                                                      2008          2009         2010
                Pensions (MKD billion)                 33.4          36.5        37.6
                Pension (% of GDP)                     8.1           8.9          8.9
                Number of Formal Contributors        418,958       407,887     413,797
                Replacement Rate                       55.0          49.1        47.5
                Source: Pension Fund (PDIF), Ministry of Finance and World Bank Staff
                calculations

Improving the sustainability of the health sector. Despite a number of reforms implemented
prior to the onset of the crisis (including activities supported by the Dutch technical assistance
TF on drugs policies and outputs-based financing), the long term sustainability of the health
sector financing remains fragile and needs to be strengthened. Combined public and private
health spending in FYR Macedonia in 2008 was around 6.5 percent of GDP, down from close to
9 percent in 2004. Access and quality of services remain important issues. Public opinion polls
consistently rate health services as “poor or very poor”, while household budget surveys show
that out-of-pocket payments for health care are significant and pose financial access barriers for
poor households.

The impact of the crisis and the reductions in contribution rates in the context of the DPL1
reduced the financing available to the health sector and complicated an already difficult situation.
The resulting financial stress could potentially have adverse impact on the quality of health
services. In an effort to improve spending efficiency, the Government decided to introduce a
treasury function for the public health sector within the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) and
adopted the necessary legal framework as a prior action for DPL1. The hardware and software
required for the treasury function were purchased under a Dutch Trust Fund (TF) for technical
assistance. However, there were some concerns that a treasury function may undermine the
autonomy of health institutions. The Bank helped facilitate the dialogue between key
stakeholders to ensure that the concerns are adequately addressed resulting at the end in shared
agreement on the functioning of the treasury. The system became fully functional on January 1,
2011. This measure improved the financial management and control in the health sector and
alerts the authorities to budget over-commitment or overspending by the HIF and the Health
Care Institutions (HCIs).

Results. The immediate impact of creating a treasury function was keeping the arrears in the
public health sector (HIF and Health Care Institutions) to less than 0.3 percent of GDP in 2009
and 2010. This was an outcome indicator for the DPL1 and was met.
The gains achieved through improved financial management (introduction of the treasury
function) while important, are necessarily of a limited, short-term nature. While the arrears were
kept below 0.3 percent of GDP, further efforts would be required to ensure these are brought
firmly under control and eliminated. A significant medium term impact would require bold
reforms, including a reform of the Basic Benefits Package (BBP) that is being attempted in the
context of the DPL2 (now PBG). Some progress towards the reform of the BBG has already
been achieved. However, critical actions lie ahead and, given the political sensitivities, their
success is by no means assured. First, a detailed actuarial analysis was carried out to cost out the
current BBP. Second, the Government adopted a Memorandum on the revision of the BBP in
November 2010. It recommends options for reform, including revision of the list of services to

                                                  12
be covered, change of co-payment policies as well as promotion of voluntary health insurance.
Given the political sensitivity of these reforms, further background work and definition of these
proposed reforms will be required. These activities should define concrete actions related to the
BBP, including establishment of clear guidelines for inclusion of services in the BBP and are
being supported by the PBG operation.

Pillar 2:      To Ensure Adequate Support to Vulnerable Groups.

Rating: Satisfactory

Protect levels of spending for social protection. FYR Macedonia has a complex social safety
net system that provides support to a large part of the country’s population. The safety net
performs reasonably well by regional standards but suffers from both leakages and exclusion. In
2008, around 30 percent of social assistance benefits ended up in households in the highest three
quintiles, with almost 7.6 percent going to households in the top quintile.

Results. As a prior action for the DPL1, social assistance transfers were protected from spending
cuts necessitated by the crisis. Despite cutting expenditures by 9 percent in the April 2009
Supplementary Budget and a further 3 percent with the October budget revision, the budgetary
allocation for social protection transfers was preserved at MKD 2.9 billion (Table 1). As a
result, government spending on social financial assistance increased from 1.8 percent of Core
Central Budget spending in the original 2009 Budget, to 2.0 percent in the final 2009 budget. In
addition (as a part of the DPL1 program), the Parliament also approved a new Law on Social
Protection which lays the basis for medium-term improvements of the functioning of the social
protection system.

Beyond the DPL1, the Government has a strong agenda aimed to improve the administration of
the social safety net and improve protection of the vulnerable, supported under the PBG (under
preparation) and in close coordination with CCT/SPIL operations:
           Prepare and enact by-laws that set the regulatory framework for the implementation
            of the new law on social protection (achieved).
           Develop a unique registry of social cash benefit recipients (ongoing and at an
            advanced stage).
           Create a policy unit which issues regular monthly reports on social protection
            (ongoing).
           Implement an energy poverty program to mitigate the impact of the planned
            electricity price reforms on the poor (achieved).
           Introduce a Conditional Cash transfer (CCT) program (ongoing).

These measures, when fully implemented, are likely to result in: (i) a higher percentage of cash
benefits going to the poorest quintile (compared to 43 percent in 2008), and (ii) reduced
processing time for social financial assistance (from a baseline of 30 days in 2008). These
results indicators will be tracked in the follow up operation and during the supervision of the
investment loans in the sector (CCT/SPIL).



                                               13
Pillar 3:    Enable the Timely Identification of Systemic Risks in the Financial Sector and
Undertake Corrective Action by Strengthening the Resilience of the Financial sector.

Rating: Satisfactory

FYR Macedonia’s banking system entered the period of the global crisis in a relatively healthy
state. This is in part due to the prudent macroeconomic policies, improved financial sector
regulation and supervision in the recent past and central bank’s earlier move to increase
prudential requirements14. The Dutch TA trust fund contributed also to the improved supervision
by financing the implementation of the Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) for the NBRM.
There were, however, a number of issues which needed to be addressed going forward. In the
context of the DPL1, the Government obtained an endorsement on a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) among key stakeholders (Ministry of Finance (MoF) and NBRM)
responsible for the resolution of systemic financial crises. The MoU facilitated the creation of a
framework for information exchange, consultations on financial stability and crisis management
among the MoF and the NBRM, including agreements on crisis communication strategy, the lead
crisis manager and definition and monitoring of systemic risk. Following the MoU, the
Government established a Committee on Financial Stability (CFS) at the higher policy level.
This committee was originally envisaged in the MoU and is also in line with EU standards for
monitoring macro-prudential vulnerabilities.

The MoU is only the first step towards efficient coordination, adequate crisis preparedness and
contingency planning. Since the approval of the DPL1 the Government has implemented
additional measures. These include: (i) the adoption of a new Law on Financial Institutions
which regulates credit activities of non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs); (ii) facilitation of the
start of the private credit bureau which, by strengthening information systems, is expected to
reduce credit risks; and (iii) adoption of a new NBRM Law which increases accountability and
independence standards to EU levels (supported under the PBG).

                          Table 5: Resilience indicators of the Financial System
                                       2007    2008     2009       Q1.2010   Q2.2010    Q3.2010     Q4.2010

Capital Adequacy Ratio                 17.0     16.2        16.4    16.8      16.5        16.4        16.1
Liquid Assets to total Assets          20.9     16.9        20.6    22.0      23.7        24.0        25.3
NPL to toal Loans                       7.5     6.7         8.9      9.7       9.9        10.4         9.0
NPL net of Provision/Capital           -5.0     -6.2        -0.6     1.1       1.2         3.7        -0.3
Foreign Exchange (FX) Denominated      54.7     57.0        58.5    58.9      58.6        58.0        58.8
and FX Indexed loans to total Loans

Source: NBRM

Results. The agreement on the MoU and follow up actions taken by the Government has
improved the quality of monitoring, crisis preparedness and resilience of the banking sector. The

14
  The NBRM prudential measures included an increase in reserve requirements, risk weights for consumer loans,
credit cards and overdrafts exposures, and in loan- loss provisioning requirements. In addition, NBRM required
banks to improve matching of assets and liabilities across currency and maturity.

                                                       14
related results indicator-- financial stability indicators published regularly--has also been met.
Further, according to financial stability indicators published by the NBRM (see Table 5), the
banking system remains sound with comfortable capital adequacy ratio and high liquidity across
the sector and improving NPLs. With the new Governor having taken the office recently, it is
expected that the Financial Stability Committee will soon start formally functioning.


                                        Table 6: DPL1 Results Matrix
                                                          2008        Original Target Actual Value
                                                       (Base Line          Value         Achieved
                                                         Value)       Dec 31, 201015 16 Dec 31 201017
PDO 1: Budget supports macroeconomic stability by improving public expenditure outcomes (Pillar 1 )

Indicator 1: Government approval of the draft budget for 2010 with a target budget deficit of 2.5 percent of
GDP. (Achieved)
Budget Balance                                                  -0.9           -2.5               -2.5
Comment: Budgeted and actual deficits in 2010 were 2.5 percent of GDP.

Indicator 2: Government debt maintained below 29 percent of GDP. (Achieved)
Central Government Debt as a % of GDP                       20.7       23.9 (in 2009)                   24.8

Indicator 3: Replacement rate in pensions is reduced from a baseline of 55 percent in 2008. (Achieved)
Replacement Rate                                                    55.0           49.1 (in 2009)           47.5
Comment: More than half of this reduction over 2008- 2010, of about 3-4 percentage points can be attributed to the
redefinition of wages to include benefits. The rest, about 2-3 percentage points is a real reduction in replacement
rate (slower growth of pension benefits relative to wages) and will help the financial sustainability of the pension
system.

Indicator 4: Pension spending maintained at less than 9 percent of GDP in 2009 and 2010. (Achieved)
Pension spending (Percent of GDP)                             8.1           8.9 (in 2009)       8.9

Indicator 5: Increase in the number of formal workers with paid pension contributions from 418,958 in 2008.
(Partially achieved)
Number of formal workers with paid pension                        418,958          407,887 (in        413,797
contributions.                                                                        2009)
Comment: Although this result indicator was not achieved by the time DPL1 closed, the target was originally
intended to be fully achieved only after the full implementation of DPL1 and DPL2 (now PBG) programs.
Following the negative impact of the crisis in 2009, the labor market is improving and the number of pension
contributors shows an increase over 2009-2010. We expect the target to be achieved by the time the PBG is
implemented.
Indicator 6: Reduce social insurance contributions from 32.5 percent of gross wage in 2008 to 28.4 percent in
2009. (Achieved)
Social insurance contributions (percent of gross wage).             32.5          28.4 (in 2009)        27.0
Comment: The reduction in social insurance contributions rates was continued further in 2010 when the total
contribution rates were reduced to 27 percent.
Indicator 7: Maintaining arrears of the health sector at less than 0.3 percent of GDP. (Achieved)
Arrears in public health sector (HIF and health care                .04           0.2 (in 2009)         0.3
institutions) as percent of GDP


15
   Target values and actual achieved values refer to December 31 2010, unless otherwise mentioned.
16
   There were no revisions to the target values.
17
   Target values and actual achieved values refer to December 31 2010, unless otherwise mentioned.

                                                        15
Indicator 8: Freeze nominal wage and employment for the employees funded from the central government
budget, at least throughout 2009. (Achieved)
Total wage bill (percent of GDP)18                               8.9            10.0 (in 2009)         9.6
Comment: The wage bill was targeted to be kept below 10.5 percent of GDP in 2009. The freeze in the
wage/employment helped the Government meet this target. The increase in 2009 was due to the decline in nominal
GDP as well as the full impact of wage increases in 2008. The wage bill continues to be below 10 percent of GDP in
2010.

PDO 2: Ensure adequate support to vulnerable groups and improve administration of social safety system by
reforming the social safety nets. (Pillar 2)

Indicator 1: Maintain the level of spending for social protection at the level set forth by the original 2009
budget in all its subsequent budgets. (Achieved)
Social spending (MKD Billion)                                   2.9 (2009          2.8 (2009        2.9 (2010
                                                                 Budget)            Actual)          Actual)
Comment: The Government responded to the crisis in 2009 by introducing supplementary budgets in April and
October 2009, cutting back on the overall expenditures by 9 percent of GDP. In this environment, the expenditures
on social protection were maintained at originally budgeted levels. The expenditures have also been maintained at
MKD 2.9 billion in 2010.

Indicator 2: Enact new law on social protection to improve the administration of social safety net programs.
(Partially achieved)
Processing time for social financial assistance. (Reduced            30
from 30 days in 2008)
Percentage of cash benefits going to the poorest quintile.           43
(Increased from 43 percent in 2008).
Comment: Achievement of these outcome indicators critically depends on reforms that envisaged to be supported
under the DPL2 (now PBG). While the new Law on Social Protection enacted under DPL1 was a first step of the
program; a reduction in the processing time for social financial assistance, and increase in the benefits going to the
poorest quartile – the main outcome indicators for this policy action could only be achieved after setting up a unique
database of social cash benefits and the network between the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and the Social
Works centers. These were to be implemented under DPL2 (now converted to PBG) and are therefore currently
being formulated and implemented.

PDO 3: Systemic risks are identified timely and corrective action is undertaken by strengthening the
resilience of the financial sector. (Pillar 3)

Indicator 1: Obtain endorsement for a MoU on crisis preparedness outlining key responsibilities and
coordination mechanisms. (Achieved)
Comments: The MoU was endorsed. Following the MOU, as indicated in the PD, a Committee on Financial
Stability was established and the NBRM regularly publishes financial stability indicators. The government has also
adopted a new Law on National Bank of Republic of Macedonia (NBRM) which increases the accountability and
independence of the Central Bank.

3.3      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating:

Rating: Satisfactory



18
  The wage bill refers to the general government gross wage bill and includes wage bills of the core Central
Government, Municipalities and the public health sector personnel (most of the latter two are budgeted separately in
the Core Central Government accounts under transfers).

                                                         16
The overall outcome of the operation was satisfactory on the basis of satisfactory rating of the
relevance of the objectives, the design and implementation of the operation and achievement of
the PDOs as discussed above. The DPL1 had clear and relevant objectives - to support the
Government’s response to the crisis by maintaining macroeconomic stability, protect the
vulnerable from the inevitable expenditure cuts and strengthen the resilience of the financial
sector. The DPL1 operation was quickly processed and was in the nature of a first cut of an
ongoing reform program which continues to be pursued and now forms a basis of the PBG
operation.

3.4    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any):

Not applicable.

3.5    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):

Not applicable.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The operation succeeded in achieving the development outcomes that it set out to achieve,
namely maintaining macroeconomic stability while restructuring public expenditure, protecting
the vulnerable; and initiating institutional arrangements to improve the resilience of the financial
system. These development outcomes could, however, be at risk from the continued uncertain
external environment which could result in balance of payments problems and increasing
difficulties in accessing financial markets. To mitigate this risk, the Government is likely to
maintain prudent macro and fiscal policies. Moreover, the PBG from the Bank, currently under
preparation, could act as insurance for increased market access problems. Furthermore, fully
meeting the program objectives in some areas (social safety net, pensions, health) would require
implementation of additional measures (including some that are supported by the PBG) as well
as careful and continuous monitoring.

To strengthen the external position, the Government has also accessed IMF resources. On the
grounds of country’s sound macroeconomic fundamentals (including a moderate fiscal stance
and adequate monetary policy), limited balance of payments needs and generally favorable
economic prospects, the IMF Board approved a Precautionary Line of Credit (PCL) in January
2011. The PCL was originally approved as an insurance mechanism in case of “unexpected
balance of payment shock”; however, taking into consideration the Government decision to
finance the 2011 budget deficit by external resources to avoid crowding out domestic credit to
the private sector and given that the authorities faced constraints accessing the capital markets, in
March 2011, the Government withdrew Euro 220 million from the Euro 475.6 million available
under the PCL.


                                                 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank developed this operation using the solid knowledge and experience gained through
working closely with the Government on the preceding series of budget support operations over
2005-2008 -- the Programmatic Development Policy Loans (PDPL 1, 2 and 3) and through
extensive analytical work in areas covered by the operation. The CEM (2009), Poverty
Assessment (2009) and the Public Expenditure Review (2008) contained analysis related to
improving growth performance, labor markets and functioning of social safety nets. The 2008
FSAP (and the IMF work) provided specific recommendations to improve the resilience of the
financial sector. Finally, as the crisis evolved, the Bank staff prepared a policy note to define
response. Many of the suggestions from that note were incorporated in the reform program
supported by the operation. In addition, the Bank performance benefited from the active ongoing
engagement through the CCT and SPIL.

(b)    Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank supervision of the operation was continuous. Since all DPL1 prior actions were
completed before the operation was submitted to the Board, the implementation of the program
was supervised in the context of preparation of the follow up operation (DPL2). It was helpful to
have the TTL responsibility for formulating and supervising DPL1 located in the field, and
working closely with the main counterpart – Ministry of Finance. Moreover it was also helpful
that the TTL for the DLP1 operation was also the TTL for the follow up operation. This helped
maintain continuity in the supervision of the DPL1 program. The Bank continued to provide
advice on relevant policy issues, including under other Bank operations implemented in parallel
(SPIL, CCT) as well the Dutch TA trust fund.
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is judged to be satisfactory on the basis of satisfactory quality at
entry and the satisfactory quality of supervision.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government performance

                                               18
The Government was quick to respond to the crisis and took difficult decisions. These included
introducing supplementary budgets which slashed expenditures by nearly 8 percent of GDP,
freezing wages and freezing employment. At the same time, the Government protected the
vulnerable. There are three factors that helped the Government formulate and implement
reforms: (i) the authorities had a clear long-term vision for reform that cuts across party lines;
and (ii) the authorities involved various stakeholders (labor, the business community and other
important stakeholders); and (iii) the Government was engaged with Bank, the IMF and other
bilateral partners in carrying out analytical work and using it to design the reform program.

(b)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

For reasons noted above, overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The DPL1 holds important lessons for Bank’s response to externally transmitted crisis in FYR
Macedonia. These include:
          Credits processed in response to crisis have to be processed quickly, and must help
           shape Government’s immediate response yet not lose sight of medium term
           objectives.
          The experience under the DPL1 also indicates that the assistance the Bank can
           provide in designing Government’s response by analytical work and acting as an
           honest broker and facilitating the policy dialogue (i.e. on the health sector treasury) is
           just as important as the resources provided by the operation.
          Having a Bank presence on the ground, and most of the Team on the ground with a
           previously established dialogue helped lay the basis for the design and relatively fast
           processing of this Operation.
          Bank’s assistance in sharing of lessons from emergency response from other
           countries was also useful. In fact, the conversion of the DPL2 operation into a PBG
           benefitted from a similar experience in Serbia.
          Close coordination with other projects (SPIL, CCT etc.) and donors helps improve the
           design of the operation and speed up its processing and leverage additional resources
           (Dutch co-financing and technical assistance grants).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Borrower comments:

The authorities sent comments responding to an earlier draft of the ICRR and outlining their
views on the implementation of the DPL1 (see Annex 4). The Government agrees with our
assessment of the operation and appreciates the continuous support provided by the World Bank.
The Government acknowledges that the objectives of the program were met and that the policies
supported under the DPL1 substantially contributed to maintaining the macroeconomic stability
while protecting the vulnerable.

                                                19
The Government comments also acknowledge the contribution by the Government of
Netherlands through co-financing the operation as well as supporting a number of strategic
activities through TA trust funds. Finally, the Government comments also contain a number of
useful editorial suggestions, most of which have been taken on board in the current draft.




                                            20
          Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                        First Programmatic Development Policy Loan

(a) Task Team members

        Name                              Title                       Unit        Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending
Evgenij Najdov        Sr. Economist                               ECSP2          TTL
Marina Wes            Lead Economist                              ECSP2          TTL
Sarosh Sattar         Sr. Economist                               ECSP3          PSIA
Rajna Cemerska        Operations Officer                          ECH3           Health Sector
Sarbani Chakraborty   Sr. Health specialist                       EASHH          Health Sector
Mismake Galatis       Program Assistant                           ECSP2          Administrative Support
Martin Melecky        Financial Economist                         ECSF2          Finance
Aurora Ferrari        Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist   ECSF1          Finance
Carl-Johan Lindgren   Consultant                                                 Finance
Snjezana Plevko       Sr. Economist                               ECSH3          Social Protection / Pension
Bojana Naceva         Education specialist                        ECSH2          Social Protection
Lewis Hawke           Sr. Financial Management Specialist         ECSC3          Financial Management
Erika A. Jorgensen    Economic Advisor                            ECSPE          Overall
Roumeen Islam         Economic Advisor                            ECSPE          Overall
Nikolai Soubbotin     Sr. Counsel                                 LEGEM          Legal
Nicholay Chistyakov   Sr. Finance Officer                         CTRFC          Finance
Jasminka Sopova       Program Assistant                           ECCMK          Administrative Support

Supervision
Evgenij Najdov        Sr. Economist                               ECSP2          TTL
Jasminka Sopova       Program Assistant                           ECCMK          Administrative Support



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                         No. of Staff Weeks                          US$
                                                                      (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
              FY10                                  31                                166,540
                        TOTAL:                      31                                166,540
Supervision/ICR
                                                    3                                 33,546
                         TOTAL                      3                                 33,546




                                                    21
                  Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not applicable.




                                      22
                  Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not applicable.




                                             23
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              24
25
26
27
          Annex 5: Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The DPL1 was co-financed by the Government of the Netherlands. A draft ICRR was sent to the
Dutch Embassy in Skopje for comments and contributions. The Donor has broadly endorsed the
assessment provided in the ICRR.




                                            28
                            Annex 6: List of persons interviewed


Government of FYR Macedonia

Ministry of Finance

Ms. Suzana Peneva, State Advisor
Ms. Lence Tagasovska, Head of Financial Systems Department
Ms. Anita Popovska, Macroeconomics Department
Mr. Nexhati Kurtishi, Macroeconomics Department
Ms. Snezana Delevska, Macroeconomics Department

Health Insurance Fund

Ms. Maja Parnargieva Zmejkova, Director General
Ms. Tatjana Lukanovska, Finance Director
Ms. Maja Bogdanovska, Treasury Director

National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia

Ms. Milica Arnaudova, Head of Department for Financial Stability, Banking Regulation and
Methodology
Ms. Natasa Andreeva, Department for Financial Stability, Banking Regulation and Methodology

Ministry of Labor and Social Policy

Ms. Vesna Petkovic, Head of Sector for International Cooperation and Project Director for the
Social Protection Implementation Loan
Ms. Sofija Spasova, Head of Social Protection Sector

Netherlands Embassy

Mr. Blaze Kojcevski, Advisor
Ms. Slobodanka Matakova, Advisor




                                              29
            THE CITY OF SKOPJE                            Skopje serves as the     21°E                                                                           To       22°E                                                                                    23°E
                                                          Municipality Capital
                                                             for each of these
                                                                                                To
                                                                                                       KOSOVO                                                     Nis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                       SUTO
                                      ORIZARI BUTEL
                                                               Municipalities.
                                                                                          Pristina                                                                         SERBIA                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                             GJORCE                     GAZI                                                                                                                                                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                             PETROV                     BABA                                                                                                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                           FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF

                   SARAJ              KARPOSH
                                                                  CHAIR
                                                                                                                                                                  Pelinci
                                                                                                                                                                  Pelinci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MACED ONIA
                                                   SKOPJE           AERODROM                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                               Staro                                                                   Pernik
                                                 KISELA
                                      CENTAR                                                                                                                   Nagorichane Rankovce
                                                 VODA                                                                                                                                                       Kriva
                                                                                                                                Lipkovo
                                                                                   Vratnica                       Chucher-
                                                                                                                  Sandevo                          Kumanovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Palanka                                  BULGARIA                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                 Tearce                                                                                                       Kratovo                Mts
                                                                                                                                                                                                            o v s k e Makedonska
                                                                                                     Jegunovce                                                                                                                                                                                         MUNICIPALITY CAPITALS*
                                                                                                                                   Arachinovo                                                  Osog                       Kamenica
                                                                          Tetovo                                   SKOPJE                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
            42°N                                                                                                                                                                              Probistip                                          Delcevo                          42°N
                                                                                            Zheino                                     Ilinden                                                                                                                              To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ca
                                                               Bogovinje                                                                                                                                                                                                Blagoevgrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i                                                                    THE CITY OF SKOPJE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ni
                                                                                    Brvenica                Sopiste                        Petrovec                                                                             ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kocani           Bre
                                                                                                                                                              Sveti                     Obleshevo                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                              Studenichani                                                                                               Vinica
                                                                                                                                                             Nikole                   (Cheshinovo)




                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                       Va
                                                                                                                    Zelenikovo




                                                                                                                                          rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zrnovci                                                                          MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                           d
                                                                                                                                           d
                                                                            Vrapchishte




                                                                                                                                         ar
                                                Mt. Korab                                                                                                                         Karbinci
                                                (2,753 m)
                                                                              Gostivar                                                                               Lozovo                                                                          Pehcevo                                           RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                               Veles                                       Stip                      Malesevske Mts.                           Berovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                               Chaska
                                              Rostusha                                                                                                                                                                  Radovis
                                              (Mavrovo &         Zajas
                                                                      Oslomej                                                                              Gradsko
                   ALBANIA




                                              Rostusha)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *In most cases, the names of the municipalities
                                                                                 Makedonski
                                         Debar            Kicevo                                                                                           Rosoman                                                                                                                        are identical to their capitals. Where they
                                                                                 Brod                                                                                                                             Konche                   Vasilevo                                       differ, the municipality is shown in green italic.
                                           Centar      Drugovo                                                                                                         Negotino
                                                                            Vraneshtica
                                           Zupa                                                                                                                                                                          Strumica                 Bosilovo
                                                             Plasnica                                                        Dolneni                          Kavadarci                             Demir Kapija
                                           Cr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Novo
                                            r ni
                                              n




                                                                                                           Krusevo                                                                                                                                       Selo                     To
                                                D
                                                D ri




                                                                                                                                   Prilep                                                                                                                                       Petrich
                                                    m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Valandovo
                                                                      Belchishta Sopotnica                  Krivogashtani
                                                                      (Debarca)                                                                                                                                        Star Dojran
                                                Vevcani                                                                                                                                                                    (Dojran)
                                                                                    Demir Hisar                                                       na                                                                                               Lake
                      To                                                                                                                         Cr                                                               Bogdanci
                   Elbasan              Struga                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dojran
                                                                                                                                                                       .                                     Gevgelija
                                                                    Ohrid
                                                                                                                                                                  tn
                                                                                                                      Mogila                                  M
                                                                                      Resen
                                                          Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FYR
                                                                                                                                                       e




                                                                                                                                                                                        GREECE                                                                                                                       MACEDONIA
                                                                                                                                                   z




                                                                                                                             Novaci
                                                          Ohrid                                          Bitola
                                                                                                                                                 id




            41°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41°N
                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                              Lake
                                                                             Prespa                      Medzitlija                                                        0      10          20        30 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33438R2
                                                                                                                                                                           0      5      10        15     20 Miles
JULY 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                           To                                                                                                                                                                                   Thessaloniki
                                                          Korçë                                                To
                                                                                                            Kozáni                                                         22°E                                                                                         23°E
