Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14749
JIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 2666-ME)
JUNE 30, 1995
Environment and Urban Development Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Units = Nuevos Pesos= 100 cents
Average Exchange Rate*
1987                        US$1                       NPMex 2.20
1988                       US$1                        NPMex 2.28
1989                        US$1                       NPMex 2.47
1990                       US$1                        NPMex 2.57
1991                        US$1                       NPMex 2.85
1992                       US$1                        NPMex 3.00
1993                       US$1                        NPMex 3.05
1994                       US$1                        NPMex 3.38
* As of June 30, 1995 the rate for US$1 was NPMex 6.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Currency Equivalent
Currency Units = Nuevos Pesos = 100 cents
Average Exchange Rate
1987                         US$1                          NPMex 2.20
1988                         US$1                          NPMex 2.28
1989                         US$1                          NPMex 2.47
1990                         US$1                          NPMex 2.57
1991                         US$1                          NPMex 2.85
1992                         US$1                          NPMex 3.00
1993                         US$1                          NPMex 3.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS            National Development Bank for Public Works and Services
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pzublicos
CETES               Mexican Government Treasury Bills
Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Naci6n
CNA                 National Water Commission
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
CUDs                Development Agreements
Convenios Unicos de Desarrollo
FORTAMUN            Municipal Strengthening Program
Programa para Fortalecimiento Municipal
GERP                Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Program
Programa de Emergencia de Reconstrucci6n de Guadalajara
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
Licitaci6n Piublica Internacional
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
Licitaci6n Piublica Local
SC                  Steering Conmmittee
Comite Directivo
SEDESOL             Ministry of Social Development
Secretaria de Desarrollo Social
SEDUE               Ministry of Urban Development and Environment
Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
SEDEUR              Jalisco State Ministry of Urban and Rural Development
Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Rural del Estado de Jalisco
SG                  Ministry of Governance
Secretaria de Gobernaci6n
SHCP                Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Piublico
SOE                 -Statement of Expenditures
Estados de Gastos
SPP                 Ministry of Planning and Budgeting
Secretaria de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto
TS                  Technical Secretariat
Secretaria Tecnica
TSU                 Technical Support Unit
Unidad de Apoyo Tecnico



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary .............                                                  i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION.                                                                  1
B. ORIGINAL PROJECT .1
Original Project Objectives .1
Achievement of Original Project Objectives.                                3
Major Factors Affecting Original Project.                                  4
Bank Performance under Original Project.                                   4
Borrower Performance under Original Project.                               5
C. REVISED PROJECT.                                                               6
Objectives of Revised Project.                                             6
Further Revisions of Project Objectives.                                   7
Achievement of Project Objectives.                                         7
Major Factors Affecting the Revised Project.                               8
Bank Performance under Revised Project.                                    8
Borrower Performance under Revised Project.                                9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                        9
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .10
F. FUTURE OPERATIONS .                                                            1
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .                                                         1



Table of Contents (Con't)
Page No.
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:            Summary of Assessment ....................................................                                         13
Table 2:             Related  Bank Loans ....................................................                                           15
Table 3:             Project Timetable ....................................................                                             16
Table 4:             Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and Actual ........................... 17
Table 5:             Project Costs (Original and Revised) .................................................. 18
Table 6:             Project Financing ....................................................                                             19
Table 7:             Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                                     20
Table 8:             Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................................                                  21
Table 9:             Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                                      22
Table  10:           FORTAMUN: Total of Sub-projects ................................................... 23
Table 11:    Sub-projects Financed by Water Supply & Sanitation Sector Project 3271-ME 24
Table 12:            List of Activities in the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Program ....... 25
Table  13:           Works Completed  in the First and Second Stage .................................... 26
Table  14:           Executed  Works in the Second Phase ................................................. 27
APPENDIX
Aide-Memoire of Mission .29



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Municipal Strengthening
Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2666-ME in the amount US$40.0 million equivalent was
approved on March 5, 1986 and made effective on September 10, 1986.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on June 30,
1995, at which time a balance of US$0.3 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Luis Pereira, Task Manager, of the Environment and Urban
Development Division (LA2EU) of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office, and
reviewed by Mr. Ted Nkodo, Division Chief, LA2EU, and Ms. Kreszentia Duer, Project Advisor,
LA2DR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and completion
mission in August 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and by
preparing its own evaluation of project execution that will be included as an appendix to the ICR as
soon as they become available.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    This US$40 million loan, known as FORTAMUN, became effective in 1986. It was the
fifth municipal development operation that the Bank supported in Mexico, and was intended to train
federal and local government officials and establish a fund for municipal investments. It failed under
its original objectives, despite a 1991 amendmnent to simplify administrative arrangements. This was
mainly because municipalities had cheaper sources of funds available to them and therefore did not
demand loan funds. The project lay dormant for five years. A total of only US$4.5 million had
been spent by 1992, when the loan was amended twice to meet other objectives. First, a tragic
accident in Guadalajara prompted a redesign of the project in 1992 so that funds could be channeled
immediately towards reconstruction of damaged city infrastructure. Second, in 1994, a further
restructuring of the loan allowed the government to use US$19 million from the loan to fund
projects approved under the water supply and sanitation project (Loan 3271-ME). The modified
project was successfully implemented. The project was closed in December, 1994 with US$0.3
million undisbursed. Total project costs finally amounted to US$316.7 million, of which US$39.7
million was from the Bank loan.
Project Objectives
2.     Original Project Objectives. The project originally aimed at supporting the Government's
strategy of strengthening municipal institutions, to increase efficiency of urban service delivery.
Specific objectives were: (a) building up the municipalities' organizational, administrative and
fimancial management systems; (b) strengthening federal and state agencies to promote municipal
development; and (c) assisting municipalities expand and upgrade urban infrastructure. The main
project component was intended to support the establishment of a municipal development fund
within BANOBRAS, to provide sub-loans to municipalities for investments in civil works, utilities,
public transport, and municipal facilities (paras. 2-3).
3.     Revised Project Objectives. The project was changed in response to a major explosion in
Guadalajara on April 22, 1992. The accident, which was caused by gasoline leaking into the
sewerage system, killed 214 people and injured 6,000 and resulted in substantial damage to
infrastructure. The government asked the Bank to finance the first phase of their reconstruction
effort, which aimed at restoring adequate sanitary conditions in the affected area, and basic
pedestrian and traffic flows in the city (paras. 21-22).
4.    In October 1993, some US$19 million remained in the project, and the legal agreements
were again changed to allow the government to use the resources to finance sub-projects approved
under the Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Loan 3271-ME. These amendments allowed Loan
2666-ME to be closed and provide additional financial support to Loan 3271-ME, under which
BANOBRAS had approved more sub-projects than it had funds available (para. 23).



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Implementation and results of original project objectives.   Only the infrastructure
component was ever implemented, and that was minimal. The Steering Committee (SC) only
approved ten sub-projects in total, and only seven were ever completed (Table 10) (paras. 9-11).
GOM and the Bank amended the Loan Agreement in May 1991, to simplify administrative
arrangements.   This abolished the SC  and passed responsibility for project execution to
BANOBRAS. The changes did nothing, however, to increase demand for sub-loans. Complicated
inter-ministerial decision-making arrangements in the SC had caused many delays, but the principal
reason for the lack of demand was that other public sources were making softer funds available to
municipalities (paras. 12-14).
6.    Implementation and results of revised project objectives. In contrast to the project's failure
to meet its original objectives, implementation of Phase I of the GERP was very successful. It took
only two months, May 15-July 15, 1992 and used US$16.5 million from the Bank loan. The works
completed under this section of the project were technically sound and made a major contribution to
restoring the area to safe and operable conditions (paras. 24-27). Principal reasons for this success
included: the prompt response of GOM and the State of Jalisco; the stakeholder group (patronato)
forned at a local level to deal with the reconstruction; efficient arrangements for the private sector to
construct civil works, including supervision and coordination; and the Bank's quick response, clear
guidance and relaxed procurement rules (paras. 28-33).
7.     Implementation of funds transferred to the water supply and sanitation sector project.
US$19 million was used to help finance 393 sub-projects in Mexico with a total investment cost of
US$191.6 million equivalent. For results of this project, see the Project Completion Report for
project 3271-ME, document number [...] issued December 5, 1994.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
8.     The project outcome under its original objectives is rated highly unsatisfactory with no
sustainability. This is based on the almost non-existent implementation of the project. Under the
revised objectives, however, the project is rated highly satisfactory, and sustainability is not an issue
due to the emergency nature of the project. This evaluation is based on the GERP having met or
exceeded each of its objectives.
9.     The GOM and the Bank are currently preparing a State and Municipal Management Project
taking into account the following lessons from FORTAMUN's failure:
(a)    Bank efforts at institutional development must be responsive to market demnand,
even when the market consists of public sector institutions and relevant price signals are political.
One of the main reasons FORTAMUN failed is that it could not find a market for sub-loans. As
long as softer money was available, FORTAMUN's lending program was irrelevant to its market
(para. 13).
(b)    Projects that deal directly with sub-national governments need to be designed with
long implementation periods. This is to allow for the unpredictable but frequent problems that are



- iii -
outside the project's control, such as changing political climates, and changing relations between
levels of government (para.19).
(c)    Where various agencies deal with the same sector, and rivalry between agencies is
strong, project design needs to reflect these realities. Project design should reduce these tensions
wherever possible, for example by defining responsibilities clearly and simplifying approval
procedures for sub-loans. It was clear in this project that the inter-ministerial steering committee
resulted in the FORTAMUN having no owner nor institutional leader and left it vulnerable to inter-
ministerial rivalries (paras. 12-13, 17, 19).
(d)    The extreme and mixed results of the project give further evidence that Bank
assistance can only be effective when the government is committed and devotes the necessary
administrative resources.  If the project shows signs of lack of commitment at start up, as
FORTAMUN did under its original objectives, the project should be restructured or canceled. If, on
the other hand, the government is committed, as it was to the GERP, a project can show very good
results quickly (para. 11).
10.    The following lessons emerge from the success of the project under its revised objectives:
(a)    The broad definition of the original project design enabled the Bank to move money
quickly in response to the Guadalajara tragedy (paras. 22-23).
(b)    Delegation of supervision responsibilities to local offices can speed up and improve
implementation. The Bank contributed to the GERP's success by fully delegating supervision to the
Resideint Mission in Mexico. The approval of non-routine procurement and disbursement actions,
and the frequent field visits by headquarters staff also contributed to achieving project objectives
(paras. 29-30).
(c)    The success of the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Project, and the
importance of the Bank's role in this project should dispel doubts expressed in earlier audit reports
about the Bank's capacity to undertake emergency projects (see Audit Reports for the Guatemala
(No. 6284) and Nicaragua (No. 6193) Emergency Reconstruction Projects).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This US$40 million loan became effective in 1986 to support the fifth municipal
development operation in Mexico.  The project intended to train federal and local
government officials and provide a fund for municipal investments. It failed under its
original objectives, despite a 1991 amendment to simplify administrative arrangements.
This was mainly because municipalities had cheaper sources of funds available to them and
therefore did not demand FORTAMUN loans. The project lay dormant for five years. A
total of only US$4.5 million had been spent by 1992, when the loan was amended to meet
other objectives. First, a tragic accident in Guadalajara prompted a redesign of the project
in 1992 so that US$16.5 million could be channeled immediately towards reconstruction
of damaged city infrastructure.  Second, in 1994, a further restructuring of the loan
allowed the government to use US$19 million from the loan to fund projects approved
under the water supply and sanitation project (Loan 3271 -ME). Implementation of both
modifications was successful.
2.    Total project costs finally amounted to US$316.7 million, of which US$39.7
million was from the Bank loan. Total project costs were US$238.3 million higher than had
been estimated at appraisal.  This was caused by US$106.8 equivalent indemnization
expenses incurred under the GERP, and US$151.3 million equivalent of local costs for the
sub-projects financed under loan 3271-ME. The Bank's share of financing decreased
therefore from the 51 % of total project costs expected at appraisal to 13% (Tables 5-6). The
loan was closed on December 31, 1994, with US$0.3 million undisbursed (Table 4).
B. ORIGINAL PROJECT
Original Project Objectives
3.    The Municipal Strengthening Project, FORTAMUN, was the Bank's fifth urban
development project (Table 2). It was originally conceived in mid 1982 at the beginning of
the country's decentralization process. This was a period of severe economic crisis. One of
the government's first actions was to establish a general decentralization policy in 19851.
This set a framework for increased state and local participation in programming and
implementing investment decisions, and for greater coordination among central agencies and
I Program for Decentralization of the Federal Public Administration, January 1985.



2
between federal, state, and municipal governments. The project was intended to support
this policy.
4.     The project aimed at emphasizing a process shift away from traditional approach of
analyzing individual projects to one of institutional appraisal, focusing on the municipality
as an important agent of national economic development.  It was to  support the
Government's strategy of strengthening municipal institutions, in order to increase the
delivery of affordable and efficient urban services. Specific objectives were: (a) building up
the municipalities' organizational, administrative and financial management systems; (b)
strengthening federal and state agencies that promote municipal development; and (c)
assisting municipalities in expanding and upgrading urban infrastructure. The main project
component was intended to support the establishment of a municipal development fund
within BANOBRAS that would provide sub-loans to municipalities for investments in civil
works, utilities, public transport, and municipal facilities.
5.     Evaluation of Original Project Objectives. The objectives were sound. Giving local
governments greater autonomy is generally an effective means of increasing urban service
delivery and efficiency. Municipal strengthening was and continues to be is crucial if
Mexico is to make progress in decentralization.
6.     Original Project Design and  Organization.   The project originally had five
components:
Municipal staff development and organizational strengthening that would
support a coordinated training program for selected municipalities.
Federal and state staff development and organizational strengthening.
Infrastructure and related investment fund for municipal development that
would support the establishment of a municipal development fund within
BANOBRAS, to provide sub-loans to municipalities for investments in water
supply, sewerage, roads, drainage, street lighting, markets, slaughterhouses,
etc. Municipalities were to receive partial support for these sub-projects at
levels depending on their financial needs.2
Project administration was to finance the salary and costs for of full-time
staff of the Training Unit.
2 Matching grants were established to induce municipalities to rely on credit for financing
infrastructure investments and to rechannel some current Government budgetary support to them.
The proportion of the matching grants was established according to five categories based on: (i) size;
(ii) deficiencies in provision of basic services; (iii) priority in the National Development Plan; and
(iv) current revenues.



3
Physical decentralization of federal public administration. This component
aimed to pilot the government's decentralization program in twenty selected
cities in an integrated manner.
7.    The central government established a framework for administering the project,
involving many agencies. BANOBRAS controlled the project funding. A high-level inter-
ministerial Steering Committee, ComWit Directivo (SC), led the project, headed by the
Undersecretary of SHCP, and made up of senior officials from the Ministry of Governance
(SG), the Ministry of Planning and Budgeting (SPP), the Ministry of Urban Development
and Environment (SEDUE), and BANOBRAS. A Technical Secretariat, Secretaria Tecnica
(TS), coordinated the whole government program, including allocation of project finances.
A Technical Support Unit, Unidad de Apoyo Tecnico (TSU), was established to provide
technical support to the training agencies, and was intended to form the nucleus of national
centers to coordinate municipal training programs. Municipalities were to implement sub-
project investments with assistance from SEDUE. BANOBRAS was to take responsibility
for appraising municipal sub-projects, for credit operations and for monitoring and
evaluation.
8.    The total project cost, excluding taxes, was estimated at US$80.0 million, with a
foreign exchange cost of US$18.3 million. The Bank loan of US$40.0 million was to
finance 50% of the project cost. The Government was to provide the required counterpart
funding through an annual budgetary allocation to FORTAMUN. Municipalities were to
contribute the equivalent of US$12.2 million from their own revenues for investments in
sub-projects.
Achievement of Original Project Objectives
9.    The project failed to achieve its original objectives. No training courses ever took
place and municipalities only completed seven sub-projects. FORTAMUN, as it was
originally designed, was too small to change the market it was entering, but too ambitious to
sell in the market as it existed.
10.   Only the infrastructure component was ever irnplemented, and that implementation
was poor.  Despite amendments to simplify administrative procedures, the SC only
approved ten sub-projects in total: three in Sonora, three in Aguascalientes, one in
Tamaulipas, one in Mexicali, one in Durango and one in Guanajuato. Only seven of these
were completed. Two of the projects in Sonora and that in Durango were dropped, but the
municipality completed one of the dropped projects in Sonora with local funds (Table 10).
11.   In June 1988, the government's austerity program caused them to transfer the
Technical Secretariat (TS) and the Training Support Unit to BANOBRAS. At this point, the
TS effectively ceased to exist, had spent only 4.5% of the loan amount ($1.8 million) and
had come almost to a complete halt. The government contemplated canceling the loan in
late 1988, because it was concerned that the commitment fees on the undisbursed loan



4
balance far exceeded project disbursements, and the situation seemed likely to continue.3 In
August 1989, however, it asked BANOBRAS to explore ways to revive the project. After
consulting with the Bank, BANOBRAS suggested that it should take over the entire
responsibility for project execution after abolishing FORTAMUN's mandate and dissolving
the Inter-ministerial Steering Conmmittee. The Bank approved these amendments to the
Loan Agreement, and they became effective in May 1991. The amendments did nothing,
however to increase demand for sub-loans.
Major Factors Affecting the Original Project
12.   The loan was approved in March 1986 and signed on April 1986, but did not
become effective until September of that year. Project execution moved very slowly during
the first years, in part because of the complexity of the initial implementation arrangements,
which required participation and consensus of several Federal, State, and Municipal
agencies in the steering committee. The project suffered because it had no institutional
owner or champion. While several agencies battled for control of the project, they delayed
implementation decisions. This also allowed government budgetary restrictions to block the
project's funding.
13.   The principal reason for the lack of demand for sub-loans, however, was that other
public sources were making softer funds available to municipalities. With near-market
interest rates and a complex and time consuming appraisal system, FORTAMUN
represented the most expensive, and least accessible infrastructure financing in Mexico. By
the late 1980s, local infrastructure financing in Mexico was dominated by Development
Agreements, Convenios Unicos de Desarrollo (CUDs), to which the federal government
contribution is entirely on grant terms. IDB was also providing soft loans to municipalities.
14.   Even if the Bank had recognized this problem, it would not have been able to
resolve it. The Bank had separately negotiated a General Interest Rates Agreement (GIRA)
with GOM, which prohibited new government-subsidized lending through any of the
development banks under World Bank projects. Other causes of failure included poor
promotion of the program, and the lack of effective programs to help the municipalities
prepare urban plans (a prerequisite for receiving sub-loans).
Bank Performance under Original Project Objectives
15.   Preparation and Appraisal: Unsatisfactory. The Bank correctly highlighted sector
policy issues, and quickly developed agreement with the Government on objectives. The
Bank properly addressed the serious constraints affecting the efficiency in the correct use of
resources and in the quality of the services provided by the municipal sector. The Bank paid
adequate attention to the training program for municipal staff at all levels, particularly in the
3  Based on the arrangements outlined in the Loan Agreement, the accumulated and paid-up interest
and commitment fees of FORTAMUN as of November 15, 1987 were US$0.8 and US$1.1 million,
respectively. Informe de la Gesti6n del Mandato de FOR TAMUN, BANOBRAS, Mexico, D.F.
November 1990.



5
area of financing management, as a precondition to strengthening municipal effectiveness in
implementing and operating capacities. Bank management expressed concern about dealing
with municipal financial system, and correctly identified the importance of the redundant
federal subsidies to the states and municipalities through greater local finance mobilization,
improved efficiency of financial resources allocation and better utilization of these resources.
These concerns were, in retrospect, valid.
16.   The Bank paid less than adequate attention, however, to other aspects of project
preparation. It did not assess potential demand adequately, nor did it pay adequate attention
to clarifying administrative arrangements. The Bank did not identify problems that might
arise from BANOBRAS' capacity to manage its staff and to provide the equipment required
at its branches, nor did it foresee the institutional rivalry among the five key agencies
participating in the project. It should have been able to foresee these problems, as similar
issues were plaguing other projects in Mexico during preparation of FORTAMUN. The
Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Project (Loan 1554-ME); and the Second Urban and
Regional Development (Loan 1 990-ME), for example, were both experiencing
disbursement problems because of inadequate coordination and technical-financial capacity
at the state and municipal levels.4
17.   Supervision: Deficient. The Bank did not properly evaluate or act upon several
problems that arose soon after project effectiveness. These included: inadequate counterpart
funding, staffing in the technical secretariat in BANOBRAS and institutional rivalries in the
Steering Committee. The Bank should have taken appropriate actions, such as applying
legal covenants or even canceling the loan at an early stage, especially once it became clear
that changes in the Loan Agreement had not fostered rapid resumption of activities. The
Bank hoped to keep the project alive in an otherwise weak project pipeline, and therefore
pushed for changes that would enable the project to disburse. The Bank should have
focused more on the institutional structure of FORTAMUN.  It was clear that its
institutional arrangements were not working properly. Different Bank staff supervised the
project from those who had helped prepare it. This lack of continuity made supervision
very difficult. In addition, the Bank dedicated inadequate time to sorting out this problem
project. A total of seven supervision missions took place between 1986 and 1992, an
average of one supervision mission per year. Time spent on these missions was also
insufficient (average mission was one staff-week). More intensive supervision was needed
in this critical period when problems became more serious (Tables 8-9). The Bank did not
supervise the project for almost two years (August 1988-March 1990).
Borrower Performance under Original Project
18.   Implementation: Deficient.  Organizational problems plagued the project after
effectiveness. During the first six months, after project signing, BANOBRAS managed to
fill only eight of the anticipated 40 positions in its technical secretariat. BANOBRAS
approved its first sub-loan -- a road paving sub-project in Hermosillo -- a full eight months
after the project became effective.
4  Project Completion Report (PCR) No. M87-1287 and PCR No. M93-0139.



6
19.   During the initial phase of project implementation, there was intense rivalry among
the institutions participating in the project. BANOBRAS, as borrower, argued that it should
lead the project. SEDUE, however, as special advisor to the Secretariat, implied that it had
the inside track on Bank projects, and went as far as preparing alternative Operating
Guidelines for the project, this time placing SEDUE in the lead. SEDUE particularly
insisted that it had political influence due to its prominent success in the Earthquake
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (Loan 2655-ME) .  The Ministry of Governance
(SG) argued that BANOBRAS was only the custodian of borrowed funds for the project,
and that the FORTAMUN program belonged to all government agencies, so it (SG) was the
best promotion agency. SPP also wanted to control the project, because of its position in
allocation of counterpart funds. SEDUE proposed some changes in FORTAMUN's
operating guidelines to the Bank. These aimed mainly at codifying its equality with
BANOBRAS in the administration of the project.
20.   BANOBRAS historically had not been a major lender to municipalities. They
therefore did not promote the program sufficiently; but adopted a rather passive role in the
municipal sector, providing information on request.  After BANOBRAS took over
FORTAMUN, it delegated analysis, supervision, and evaluation of sub-projects to its State
Delegations.
C. REVISED PROJECT
Objectives of Revised Project
21.   On April 22, 1992, several major explosions attributed to gasoline leaking into the
sewerage system killed 214, injured 6,000, and damaged a large area of urban infrastructure
in Guadalajara.  In response, the Government developed the Guadalajara Emergency
Reconstruction Program (GERP). GOM and the Bank decided to redirect the remaining
FORTAMUN funds towards the first phase of this effort, and amended the legal documents
accordingly.
22.   The emergency works had the objective of restoring basic sanitary conditions to
the area and restoring normal traffic flows to around eighty intersections. BANOBRAS
assumed financial responsibility for the program. The State of Jalisco's Ministry of Urban
and Rural Development (SEDEUR) was responsible for project execution. It had good
technical experience and previously had undertaken civil works of comparable scale. The
National Water Commission (CNA) provided technical support for the reconstruction of
water sanitation infrastructure. To ensure rapid follow-up, the Bank delegated overall
responsibility for project supervision to the Resident Mission in Mexico City.
5 Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (Loan 2665-ME), Performance Audit Report
No. SecM93-772, July 23, 1993.



7
Further Revisions of Project Objectives
23.   In October 1993, additional amendments were made to the Loan Agreements to
allow using the remaining project resources. This was to allow the use of funds amounting
to about US$19.0 million still undisbursed from loan 2666-ME to finance urgent sub-
projects approved under the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project, Loan 3271-ME.
These amendments allowed Loan 2666-ME to be closed and provide additional financial
support to Loan 3271-ME, which was 100% allocated and about 95% disbursed.
Achievement of Revised Project Objectives
24.   The project was highly successful in meeting its revised objectives. The project
reestablished water supply and sewerage, replaced telephone services, rehabilitated high and
low tension lines to the damaged area of Guadalajara. The repairs exceeded the expected
quality and were implemented in shorter time than estimated (two rather than four months).
Physical works were larger than planned, as it became evident that the explosions had
caused more damage than originally estimated. Within the project, the capacity of the
collector was increased 27 percent, and its joints were sealed with PVC. The number of
storm drains quadrupled to resolve the traditional problems of capturing rainwater. Special
installations were also built to house a monitoring system that is unique in Mexico, which
guarantees monitoring of the water flowing through the system.  The quality of the
urbanization of the area was also improved through the installation of pavement made of
hydraulic concrete, rather than asphalt, which had been used previously. Finally, a park was
created Lhrough the reforestation of the sidewalks, and the public lighting system in the area
was modernized and standardized. Tables 12-14 show the complementary works related to
the reconstruction but implemented by other organizations.
25.   The 1992 and 1993 rainy seasons in Guadalajara tested the new installations fully.
The first rainy season tested the operation of the open canal, which handled a volume of 49
cubic meters per second after one storm.  An exceptional storm  in June 1993 (182
millimeters of rain fell in three hours) tested the collector at its maximum capacity. Its
operation was wholly satisfactory as it handled the water without any difficulty.
26.   In general the procurement process was satisfactory. Due to the emergency nature
of the works, the Bank had agreed that international competitive bidding (ICB) would not
be the most efficient method to procure civil works. However, ICB was maintained for
the acquisition of goods. Despite the number of contracts for both works and acquisition
of goods, no major procurement issue arose during implementation of the GERP. The
emergency reconstruction works for Phase I started within 24 hours of the explosions, and
nearly 75% of the project was completed by early July 1992. The govemment had already
incurred a similar percentage of expenditure, which the Bank financed retroactively.



8
27.   The US$19.0 million of funds transferred to the Water Supply and Sanitation Project
helped finance 393 sub-projects throughout Mexico with a total investment cost of
US$191.6 million equivalent (NPMex$584.3 million) (Table 11). The balance of US$151.2
million equivalent (NPMex$461.4 million) was financed by Federal and state governments.
The results were, on the whole, satisfactory.  For details, see the Project Completion
Report.
Major Factors Affecting the Revised Project
28.   The success of the Guadalajara part of the project can be attributed principally to
government commitment. Efficient arrangements for the private sector to conduct and
implement civil works, including supervision and coordination also contributed to the
success.  The Bank's prompt response, clear guidance and flexibility in applying
procurement rules also helped effective implementation.
Bank Performance under Revised Project
29.   Preparation: Highly Satisfactory.   The Bank was supportive and responded
expeditiously and flexibly to Mexico's needs in the aftermath of the Guadalajara disaster. It
also brought sound engineering and technical expertise to the emergency reconstruction
program. The Bank maintained a close relationship with all operating agencies at every
stage, starting with the evaluation of the damage report, programming the reconstruction
and organizing the construction management team. The Bank responded immediately to the
Mexican request for support by accelerating project preparation, bypassing briefing and
appraisal report stages, and presenting the necessary project amendments directly to the
Board, three months after the disaster.
30.   Supervision: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank delegated overall responsibility for the
project supervision to its Resident Mission in Mexico. The Bank showed flexibility in its
requirements for approving contracts to speed up the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction
Project. These relaxed requirements were subsequently applied in other Bank projects in
Mexico. The Mexican Government appreciated the Bank's understanding of the need to
change during negotiation and implementation of the revised project, and its flexibility in
agreeing to the amendments. BANOBRAS commented formally about the Bank's positive
response to the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Project, especially because of the
efficient approval procedures and the delegation of authorities to the Mexico Resident
Mission.6 Most implementation problems were resolved in the field, and the application of
Bank procedures never delayed the implementation process.
6 Informe del Programa Emergente para la Reconstrucci6n de Colectores del Sector Reforma de la
Ciudad de Guadalajara, Jalisco. BANOBRAS; Ayuda Memoria, Supervision Mission, August 19-
September 2, 1994; and interviews with BANOBRAS' officials and Bank's Resident Representative
at the time.



9
Borrower Performance under Revised Project
31.   Preparation: Highly Satisfactory. For the GERP, the Government and all authorities
at the federal, state, and local levels displayed a continuously high commitment to the
reconstruction efforts, and provided full support to the project. They showed a high degree
of flexibility for changing or bypassing established bureaucratic procedures, in order to
speed up processing of permits and approvals, and were open to any adjustments, both
technical and financial, as the need emerged during project implementation. BANOBRAS,
as the financial intermediary for the project, played a critical role in maintaining the fast
pace of reconstruction.
32.   Implementation: Highly Satisfactory. The federal, state and local officials involved
in the project continued to show high commitment, flexibility and technical excellence
throughout implementation. It is noteworthy that the Mexican authorities decided not only
to repair the damaged area in Guadalajara, but also to take steps to prevent future explosions
in Guadalajara and other nationwide petroleum infrastructure facilities. The Mexican
Government should be credited for keeping the needs of affected populations as a top
priority and for sticking to the reconstruction without introducing additional secondary
objectives.
33.   The institutional arrangements used to handle the GERP at a local level also
contributed to the success of the implementation. A forum, Patronato, was established,
consisting of those affected by the explosions, and those in charge of addressing these
demands. This turned out to be an excellent instrument for channeling demands and setting
local priorities and for ensuring efficacy of the arrangements for private sector
implementation of civil works, including supervision and coordination.
34.   After the experience of the Mexico City Earthquake Rehabilitation Reconstruction
Project (Loan 2665-ME), the housing loan, and the GERP, BANOBRAS had absorbed most
of the Bank's procedures and thus was able to speed up the contract approval and
reimbursements for the water sector loan (including using the funds transferred from this
project).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.   Not Applicable.  Very few works were completed under the original project
objectives. The GERP revisions involved one time emergency reconstruction of damaged
infrastructure and so sustainability is not an issue. Physical facilities and equipment, which
were incorporated under the project, have all been functioning properly. The government
gave put high priority on using the project to reduce risks of future explosions, which they
accomplished by developing strong and resistant construction techniques and the reinforcing
the existing network structure. Mexican officials have taken preventive steps to eliminate



10
the risk that similar explosions may occur in the future. Petr6leos de Mexico (PEMEX)
gasoline storage tanks have been moved outside the urban area of Guadalajara, and a firm
contracted to review conditions and safety of all PEMEX's petroleum infrastructure facilities
nationwide.
36.   The Government has taken a more effective role in understanding that natural and
technical hazard vulnerability must be addressed from the point of view of prevention and
mitigation, which has become widely accepted in Mexico. Although this was not an explicit
objective, the project has strengthened the Municipal Government of Guadalajara's
management capacity and that of other non-governmental institutions for preventing
potential hazard sources as a result of future natural disasters.
37.   The principal environmental impacts of the project came from the reconstruction in
Guadalajara, as there was so little activity under the original objectives. These impacts were
mildly positive, as all inhabitants in the affected area have now higher quality and greater
levels of water supply and sanitation services. Sanitary conditions in the area were not only
restored, but improved in an area much larger than that affected by the explosion.
38.   Sustainability of the works financed under the Water Supply and Sanitation Project is
generally good. Details are in the Project Completion Report.
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   Overall Rating for Original Project: Highly Unsatisfactory. The project failed to
achieve any of its major objectives and was never implemented. The project management
arrangements exacerbated the institutional rivalry that hampered the project in its early
stages. It was clear from the start that there was no market for any FORTAMUN loans,
even if the institutional problems could have been resolved. Softer money was available
from other sources and the Bank was constrained by other macro-agreements with
Government of Mexico from changing the terms (paras. 13-14).
40.   Overall Assessment of the Revised Project: Highly Satisfactory The project achieved
its major objective and has achieved  satisfactory development impacts.   Project
infrastructure is of a high quality and has restored normal conditions to the area. Local
residents affected by the disaster have accepted the works implemented; they not only
participated in their supervision and vigilance, but they now are sure that they can carry out
their activities normally.
41.   The success of the GERP can be attributed to the prompt response and high
commitment of the Government of Mexico at all levels. The Patronato forum proved an
efficient means to channel the demands of those affected by the explosions, and to supervise



I1
implementation of civil works by the private sector. A final reason for success was the
prompt and flexible response by the Bank, which was present almost immediately to
evaluate the damages and to prepare the information required for providing the funds
necessary for the implementation of the reconstruction works.
F. FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   GOM  and the Bank are currently preparing a State and Municipal Management
Project. This will pilot the development and use of Policy and Financial Management Plans
(PFMPs) to be carried out by states and municipalities, which combine; (a) a statement of
policy objective and timetable of proposed actions, including specific financial targets; (b) a
municipal or state investment program for those investments, which fall outside existing
Bank credit lines but are high priority; and (c) a program of technical assistance to support
policy changes. The project objectives are to: (a) assist the Government in the definition of
a fiscal incentive framework that is more conductive to increase local government autonomy
and efficiency; (b) strengthen the operation and financial management of state and municipal
governments; and (c) increase BANOBRAS's capacity to provide policy advice and technical
assistance to state and municipalities. The project will take the lessons from FORTAMUN's
failure into account.
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The following lessons emerged from FORTAMUN's failure:
(a)    Bank efforts at institutional development must be responsive to market
demand, even when the market consists of public sector institutions and relevant price
signals are political. One of the main reasons FORTAMUN failed is that it could not find
a market for sub-loans. As long as softer money was available, FORTANMNN'R lending
program was irrelevant to its market (para. 13).
(b)   Projects that deal directly with sub-national governments need to be
designed with long implementation periods. This is to allow for the unpredictable but
frequent problems that are outside the project's control, such as changing political
climates, and changing relations between levels of government (paras. 17-19).
(c)    Where various agencies deal with the same sector, and rivalry between
agencies is strong, project design needs to reflect these realities. Project design should
reduce these tensions wherever possible, for example by defining responsibilities clearly
and simplifying approval procedures for sub-loans. It was clear in this project that the
inter-ministerial steering committee resulted in the FORTAMUN having no owner nor
institutional leader and left it vulnerable to inter-ministerial rivalries (paras. 12-13, 17, 19).
(d)   The extreme and mixed results of the project give further evidence that
Bank assistance can only be effective when the government is committed and devotes the
necessary administrative resources. If the project shows signs of lack of commitment at



12
start up, as FORTAMUN did under its original objectives, the project should be
restructured or canceled. If, on the other hand, the government is committed, as it was to
the GERP, a project can show very good results quickly (paras. 11, 17).
44.   The following lessons emerge from the success of the project under its revised
objectives:
(a)   The broad definition of the original project design enabled the Bank to
move money quickly in response to the Guadalajara tragedy (paras. 22-23).
(b)   Delegation of supervision responsibilities to local offices can speed up and
improve implementation. The Bank contributed to the GERP's success by fully delegating
supervision to the Resident Mission in Mexico. The approval of non-routine procurement
and disbursement actions, and the frequent field visits by headquarters staff also
contributed to achieving project objectives (para. 29-30).
(c)   The success of the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Project, and the
importance of the Bank's role in this project should dispel doubts expressed in earlier
audit reports about the Bank's capacity to undertake emergency projects (see Audit
Reports for the Guatemala (No. 6284) and Nicaragua (No. 6193) Emergency
Reconstruction Projects).
H. BORROWER'S FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
45.   In accordance with OP 13.55, article 3, it is indicated that the borrower has not sent
its final evaluation report.



- 13 -
Table I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial       Neglible    Not Applicable
F     G    F       G      F      G       F       G
Macro policies                                                         V/       V/
Sector Policies                                                         V       V
Financial objectives                                     V
Institutional development                                V I
Physical objectives                  V                   V
Poverty reduction                                                       V       V
Gender issues                                                                   V
Other social objectives                                                         V
Environmental objectives                          V      V
Public sector management                                                        V/
Private sector development                                              V       V
Other                     V.
F = FORTAMUN
G = Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Program



- 14 -
B. Project Sustainability
Project sustainability        Likely                Unlikely               Uncertain
FORTAMUN
Guadalajara Emergency
Construction Program
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance          Highly satisfactory  |     Satisfactory     |      Deficient
F          G          F           G           F          G
Identification                                     /           /
Preparation assistance                  /                                  /
Appraisal                               /                                  /
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance
Borrower performance J  Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory            Deficient
F          G          F           G          F           G
Preparation                            I/          /
Implementation                          /                                  /
Covenant compliance                     /                                 /
Operation                                     |
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of outcome I Highly satisfactory  | Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  | Highly unsatisfactory
FORTAMUN              I                                                             /
Guadalajara Emergency   |
Reconstruction Program



- 15 -                                Table 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Related Bank Loans
Loan               Year of     Amount                 Description                        Status
Approval  US$million
Lazaro Cardenas             1978        $16.5        Provide infrastruture, community    Completed June 1983. PCR
Conurbation Project (1554-                           facilities and low-cost housing.    No. M87-1287, November
ME)                                                                                      9, 1987
Second Urban & Regional    1981         $164.0       Credits for productive enterprises to   Completed December 1988.
Development Project (1990-                           complement expanding economic       Amount canceled US$22.4
ME)                                                  activity in growiing peripherial    million. PCR No. M93-
regions of Tabasco, Veracruz and    0139, January 12, 1993.
Chiapas.
Deconcentration Program     1982        $9.2         Support preparation of a pre-       Completed December 1987.
for the Mexico City Region                          investment stage of a                Amount canceled US$4.8
(2194-ME)                                            deconcentration program for the     million. PCR No. M90-
Mexico City region.                 0790, May 23, 1990.
Low Income Housing           1985       $150         Financing low income housing        Completed December 1992.
Project (2612-ME)                                    investments outside Mexico City     PCR No M91-1360,
region.                             October 15, 1991.



- 16 -                               lTble 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Project Timetable
item                    Date Planned          Date Revised             Date Actual
Identification         August 10, 1984                             August 10, 1984
Preparation           September 4, 1984                               May 23, 1985
Appraisal               August, 1985                                  August, 1985
Negotiations           January 18, 1986                           February 18, 1986
Board Approval          March 5, 1986                                March 5, 1986
Loan Signature          April 9, 1986                                 April 9, 1986
Effectiveness Date      July 10, 1986.      August 10, 1986     September 10, 1986
Completion Date         June 30, 1994                            December 31, 1994
Loan Closing         December 31, 1994                          December 31, 1994



- 17 -
Table 4
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY87  FY88   FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal Estimate         7.0   16.5     26.6     35.3   39.2   39.2
Actual                     2.0    2.1      3.5      3.8    4.5    4.5    22.5    37.5    39.7*
Actual as % of Estimate   28.5   12.7     13.2     10.7   11.5   11.5   57.4    95.7        99.9
* US$19.0 million were disbursed for Loan 3271-ME
Date of First Disbursement:                April 30, 1987
Initial Loan Closing Date:                 June 30, 1994
Actual Loan Closing Date:                  December 31, 1994
Date of Last Disbursement:                 June 30, 1995



Table 5
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Estimate                        Revised                         Actual
Project Components                           Local     Foreign     Total    Local      Foreign     Total     Local      Foreign   Total
A. Municipal Staff Development               6.4        1.3        7.7      1.5                    1.5       1.5        -         1.5
1. Staff Training                           5.1       0.1         5.2      0.03       -           0.1       1.5        -         1.5            cc
2. Technical Assis. & Promot. Activit.      1.0                    1.0      0.7       -           0.7       0.7        -         0.7
3. Equipment & Materials                    0.3        1.2         1.5      0.73      -           0.7       0.7        -         0.7
B. Federal & State Staff Development         4.7        1.3        6.1
1. Staff Training                           1.1                    1.1
2. Training of Trainers
3. Technical Assis. & Training              3.6        0.8         4.4
4. Information Systems and Studies                     0.4         0.4
5. Equipment & Materials                               0.2         0.2
C. Infrastruct.& Related Investments         45.8       15.2       61.0    180.2*    -             180.2     315.0**   -          315.0
D. Project Administration                    1.1                    1.1     0.2        -           0.2       0.2        -         0.2
Contingencies                2.0        0.4         2.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 60.0       18.3       78.3     181.9      -           181.9     316.7                316.7
Preliminary data
* Includes indemnization for US$106.8 rnillions equivalent under the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Program
** Includes US$151.3 million equivalent of local financing for 393 subprojects under Loan 3271-ME



- 19 -
Table 6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
[                                    Estimate                           Revised                            Actual
Sources of Funds      Local    Foreign        Total      Local      Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Bank                      20.8          18.3       39.2       39.7       -            39.7      39.7       -           39.7
Government                39.3             -       39.2       34.6       -          165.7*    277.0        -        277.0**
Total                     60.0          18.3       78.4       74.3                   205.4    316.7        -          316.7
* Include indemnization for US$106.8 million equivalent under the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Program (GERP)
* Includes local costs of the 393 subprojects for US$151.3 million equivalent under Loan 3271-ME.



Table 7
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Covenant    Present   Original      Revised       Description of Covenant                                     Comments
Type*     Status**   Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
Loan      3.03 (b)       F          CD      3/31/1988    7/22/1988    Amount of Grant made during any given calendar year shall
not exceed 16% of the amount disbursed out of the Mandate
account for part C of the project during year in question.
Loan      3.03 (c)       F          C       3/31/1988    3/31/1988    Borrower shall review the appropriateness of limits for Grants
established in the paragraph 3 of schedule 5.
Loan      Sched.5        C          C       3/31/1988     3/31/1988    Amount of Grants for each subproject shall not exceed the
equivalent of 30% of the funds provided for such subproject
other than the funds provided by the municipality out of its
own resources.
Loan      4.01(b)ii      A           C      June of       June 1989    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank no later than six months
each year.                 after the end of such year: (a) certified copies of its financial
statements; and (b) report of such audit by said auditors.
Loan     4.01            A          C       monthly      June 1989    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each month certified
(b)iii                                                       statements of the Special Account.
Guarantee   3.03           M          n.a.    during        n.a.         Guarantor shall maintain until completion of the project the  It was not longer applicable after
project                    Technical Secretariat fully staffed with qualified and     Technical Secretariat was transferred
execution                  experienced personnel.                                     to BANOBRAS.
Loan      Schedule       M         n.a.     during        n.a.         Provision of full-time staff, materials, and equipment to the  same as above.
2                                 project                    TS.
execution
* Types: A=accounts/audits; F=financial performance; C=counterpart funding; M=management; E=environment;
**Status: C=covenant complied with; CD=complied with after delay; CP=complied with parity; NC=not complied with



- 21 -
'Ibble 8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned             Actual
Through Appraisal                    n.a.              39.8
Appraisal--*Board Approval           n.a.              34.2
Board Approval-Effectiveness         n.a.              n.a
Supervision                          n.a.              81.3
Total                                                 155.3



- 22  -                                        Table 9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Bank Resources: Mission
Activity             Month/Year           No. of      No. of    Specialization    Staff     Rating      Date of     Type of
Weeks      Persons                    Weeks       Status     Report      Problem
Identification  August 1994             2           2           E,F            4.0         n/s        8/27/84      n/s
Preparation     May 1985                2           2           E,F            4.0         n/s        5/23/85      n/s
Pre-Appraisal   July 1985               2           2           E,F            4.0         n/s        7/5/85       n/s
Appraisal       August 1985             2           2           E,F            4.0         n/s        3/5/86       n/s
Post-appraisal   September 1985          1          1           F               1.0        n/s        9/17/85      n/s
Supervision     May 1986                2           2           E,F            4.0         2          5/8/86       M,F
Supervision     Scptember 1986           1          1           E               1.0        2          9/3/86       M,FP
Supervision     Mamh 1987               2           2           E,F             4.0        n/s        3/17/87      M,F,P
Supervision     May 1987                 1          1           E               1.0        3          5/5/87       M,F,P
Supervision     August 1988             2           2           E,F            4.0         n/s        8/15/88      M,F,P
Supervision     March 1990               1          1           E               1.0        3          3/1/90       M,F,P
Supervision     April 1992               1          3           E,F,Ec          3.0        3          4/27/92      M,F,P
Supervision     April 1994               1          1           E               1.0        1          4/6/94       E
Supervision     August 1994             2           1           Ec              2.0        n/s        9/11/94      F
Specialties: F=Financial Analyst; E=Engineer; Ec=Economist; Training:T
TyIpe of problem: M=Managerial; F=Financial; P=Political; n/s= Not Specified



- 23 -
Table 10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
FORTAMUN: Total of Sub-projects
State             Location            Loan Purpose           Loan amount
Aguascalientes    Tepezala            street cleaning equip.    NPMex$ 65.180
Aguascalientes    Rincon de Ramos   street cleaning equip.    NPMex$ 22.233
Aguascalientes    Calvillo           street cleaning equip.    NPMex$ 210.362
Sonora            Hermosillo         road paving             NPMex$ 497.532
Guanajuato        Irapuato            paving & sidewalk      NPMex$ 2,992.000
Mexicali          Naucalpan           paving & sidewalk      NPMex$ 1,000.00
Tamaulipas        Tampico            paving & sidewalk       NPMex$ 2,554.000
Source: BANOBRAS



Table I 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
LOAN 2666-ME
Total Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2666-ME
for
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project*
(NMex)
Number                                                                Bank
of                         Amount                                     Loans                              Local
State                   Projects        Original Additions              Total 2666-ME   3271-ME                   Total  Financing
AGUASCALIENTES                3           4,389,650      1,967,074     6,356,724      682,800      2,490,690     3,173,489      3,818,907
BAJA CALIFORNIA              11           17,307,523     1,854,971    19,162,494    2,259,650     4,859,615     7,119,266      13,959,478
BAJA CALIF. SUR               3            1,031,089       54,525      1,085,614       52,726       430,162       482,888         711,287
CAMPECHE                      6           10,611,148       62,707    10,673,855       839,050     3,733,443     4,572,493       7,168,748
COLIMA                        2           2,665,706             0     2,665,706       151,866       772,212       924,078       2,008,199
CHIAPAS                      17          83,718,928     2,220,085    85,939,013    11,755,303    10,377,762    22,133,065      72,399,849
DURANGO                       2             447,154             0       447,154        67,073             0        67,073        424,797
GUANAJUATO                   10           15,200,534      531,443     15,731,977     1,102,640     4,404,000    5,506,640      11,798,535
GUERRERO                      3           6,189,038             0     6,189,038       928,356             0       928,356       5,879,586
HIDALGO                       7           3,817,200       426,312     4,243,512       524,477      1,360,877     1,885,355      2,782,509
JALISCO                      60          113,949,432    7,442,816   121,392,248     10,679,973    28,368,233    39,048,206     94,483,267
MEXICO                       47          74,643,935     7,495,664    82,139,599     5,526,352    14,988,270    20,514,622      69,838,937
MICHOACAN                    16          31,079,005     3,898,724    34,977,730      1,985,152    9,368,852    11,354,004      27,121,499
MORELOS                       4           4,425,556       818,121     5,243,677       327,117      1,553,752     1,880,869      3,887,176
NAYARIT                       9           4,996,280        52,112     5,048,392       304,973       154,234       459,208       5,094,024
NUEVO LEON                   69          47,738,271     2,449,567    50,187,838     7,586,659     9,180,239    16,766,898      38,439,724
OAXACA                        3            1,771,576      163,579      1,935,155      299,839       536,475       836,314       1,292,357
PUEBLA                       12           10,041,956      162,628    10,204,584      1,416,044    3,135,205     4,551,249       6,673,794
QUERETARO                    10           5,635,497        70,000     5,705,496      1,440,023      860,756     2,300,779       3,975,267
QUINTANA ROO                  2           2,113,141       727,273     2,840,413      1,308,369            0      1,308,369      1,816,085
SINALOA                       6           13,506,971     1,028,913    14,535,884      879,642     4,196,272     5,075,913      10,913,559
SONORA                       37          36,918,989     2,755,612    39,674,601     3,511,456    10,172,534    13,683,990      29,958,071
TABASCO                      12           9,346,302      1,775,987    11,122,289      951,099     3,878,273     4,829,372       7,405,146
TAMAULIPAS                   11          24,227,379       353,633    24,581,012      1,285,311    2,271,177     3,556,488      23,482,626
TLAXCALA                     19           7,429,597       611,730     8,041,327       503,151     3,171,414     3,674,565       5,170,895
VERACRUZ                      1           6,226,516             0      6,226,516      228,064      2,591,495    2,819,559       4,029,609
YUCATAN                       4            1,648,354      252,386      1,900,740      548,790             0       548,790       1,542,024
ZACATECAS                     7           6,061,991             0     6,061,991       893,253       477,596      1,370,849      5,297,341
TOTAL       393        547.138,717    37,175,864  584,314,581    58.039,207   123.333,539   181,372,746    461,373,293
* Preliminary Data
Source: BANOBRAS



- 25 -
Table 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECr
(Loan 2666-ME)
List of Activities in the Guadalajara Emergency Reconstruction Program
1.    Federal Conmnission of Electricity
*     Rehabilitation of 2,200 meters of high and low tension lines.
*     185 high and low tension connections for users.
*     Delivery and installation of 85 streetlamps of 500 and 1,500 watts for emergency
public lighting.
*     5,200 meters of distribution networks of high and low tension lines.
*     Placement of 209 low tension poles.
2.    Telephones of Mexico
*     Re-establishment of service to 1,187 private homes, businesses, industries and public
offices.
*     Replacement of 130 telephone poles and 14,000 meters of telephone wire.
*     Installation of 450 meters of fiber optic cable and seven distribution boxes.
*     Provision of emergency support services, like a telephone mailbox, which allowed the
transmission of taped messages to family members and friends within the city, in the
rest of Mexico, and abroad. In sum, 4,242 messages were passed on in 16 days.
*     Installation of public telephones in the shelters and help centers.
3.    Petr6leos Mexicanos (PEMEX)
*     Repair the 8-inch gas pipeline that provides fuel to the industrial zone of the city.
4.    Ferrocarriles Nacionales
*     Rehabilitation in its railroad yards the new tracks that connected western Mexico with
the capital.
*     Participation in designing and in implementing a water management plan for the area.



- 26 -
Table 13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Works Completed in the First Phase of GERP
Primary and Secondary Sewage Lines
Demolition of Houses                                     66,500 m3
Excavation                                              575,800 m3
Protection of Embanckments with                          95,078 m3
Reinforce Concrete
Sandbagging Placement                               854,000 pieces
Vehicular Bridges                                               13
Pedestrian Bridges                                              27
Rehabilitated Principal Intersections                            6
Works Completed Previous to the Secondl Phase of GERP
Supply and installation pipes                         4,834 meters
Installation of concrete pipes for                    4,006 meters
Secondary sewage network
Potable water network                                 3,720 meters
Sewage network                                        6,920 meters
Potable water & sewage connections                      830 pieces
Pavement and sidewalks                                   43,200 m3
Public lighting                                       3,915 meters
Source: ReconstrucclOn de Colectores Sector Reforma Uu-adalajara, Jalisco



- 27 -
Table 14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(Loan 2666-ME)
Executed Works in the Second Phase of GERP
Principal and Secondary Sewage Lines
Placement of concrete for the principal                   39,600 m3
sewage line
Installation of double line of concrete                 1,794 meters
pipes for the principal sewage line
Installation of concrete pipes for secondary            1,566 meters
sewage lines
Potable water network                                  6,480 meters
Sewage network                                         9,990 meters
Potable water & sewage connections                      1,610 pieces
Paving and sidewalks                                      64,000 m2
Public lighting                                        9,700 meters
Source: Reconstrucci6n de Colectores Sector Refornma Guadalajara, Jalisco



APPENDIX



- 29 -
AYUDA MEMORIA
PROYECTO DE FORTALECIMIENTO MUNICIPAL
PRESTAMO 2666-ME
1.-  La Misi6n del Banco Mundial  integrada por el Sr.  Edgard
Martinez visit6 Mexico del 19 de Agosto al 2 de Septiembre
de 1994.
2.-  El  objetivo  de  la  Misi6n,  fue  la  evaluaci6n  de  las
actividades alcanzadas del proyecto de Fortalecimiento
Municipal (2666-ME) para la preparaci6n del informe final
del proyecto (Implementaci6n Completion Report, ICR) y realizar un
intercambio   con  los   funcionarios   responsables   dentro
BANOBRAS,   Comisi6n  Nacional  de  Agua   (CNA),   y  otros
funcionarios participantes dentro la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
Asimismo, revisar el estado del cumplimiento de las
condiciones para la efectividad del Proyecto Sectorial de
Agua Potable y Saneamiento (3751-ME).
3.   La Misi6n se entrevist6 con funcionarios de BANOBRAS, CNA,
Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano (SEDEUR) del Gobierno del
Estado de Jalisco, Centro Nacional de Desarrollo Municipal
(CENADEM) de la Secretaria de Gobernaci6n, y la firma
consultora Instalaciones, Ingenierias y Servicios de Jalisco
S.A.(INSERJALSA).
Proyecto 2666-MI
4.-  La Misi6n tuvo la oportunidad de revisar la informaci6n
obtenida para la preparaci6n del informe final mencionado
anteriormenMe, as! como intercambiar experiencias con todos
los funcionarios responsables del mismo.
5.-  Se  calcularon  los  costos  preliminares  del  proyecto,
incluyendo aquellos llevados a cabo con aporte local.
Asimismo, se obtuvo un detalle de los costos por rubro de
financiamiento y por cada uno de los sub-programas y las
actividades realizadas dentro el periodo de implementacion
del proyecto 1986-1994.
6.-  Como  es  conocido,   los  objetivos  del  proyecto  fueron
modificados  a    partir  del  5  de  Agosto  de  1992  como
consecuencia del Programa de Emergencia para la Reconstrucci6n del Sector
Reforma de la Ciudad de Guadalajara. La Misi6n pudo observar que
estos objetivos fueron debidamente alcanzados y en un tiempo
menor al previsto originalmente. A este respecto, la Misi6n
not6 con gran satisfacci6n, que tanto el personal de
BANOBRAS como de CNA, realizaron valiosos esfuerzos para
lograr debidamente el cumplimiento de los objetivos.



- 30 -
Aide Memoire
Asimismo, es importante mencionar el gran grado de
coordinaci6n llevado a cabo para realizar eficientemente las
labores de reconstrucci6n en las obras en Guadalajara.
7.-  Se verific6 que gran parte del 6xito en el logro de este
objetivo, fue como consecuencia del grado profesional de los
diferentes funcionarios pertenecientes a los organismos
responsables dentro el proyecto, asi como tambien la rapida
toma de decisiones en las inversiones y la eficiencia en la
administraci6n de los recursos que se usaron durante el
periodo de ejecuci6n de todas las inversiones del programa
de reconstrucci6n. Asimismo, SEDEUR responsable de la
coordinaci6n de las obras de reconstrucci6n, que demostr6
gran capacidad en sus labores de coordinacion y contrataci6n
de los trabajos de construcci6n.
8.-  BANOBRAS  manifest6  a  la Misi6n,  la  rapida  y  eficiente
cooperaci6n del Banco Mundial para atender a la emergencia
en  Guadalajara,   especialmente   en  la  autorizacion  y
desembolsos de los recursos provenientes del pr6stamo 2666-
ME, asi como tambien, el grado de descentralizaci6n que el
Banco experiment6 en delegar a sus of icinas en Mexico las
autorizaciones correspondientes. Todo lo anterior tambi6n
fue factor contribuyente al exito en el logro del objetivo
arriba mencionado.
9.-  Con relaci6n al componente original del proyecto FORTAMUN,
se realizaron siete sub-prestamos con un monto aproximado de
US$4.7 millones,  de los cuales el Banco financi6 US$2.5
millones (53.2%). Las labores de Asistencia Tecnica se
concentraron a programas de capacitaci6n, que fueron
llevadas a cabo con la colaboraci6n de CENADEM. Los costos
de estas actividades sumaron aproximadamente US$37.4 miles y
el Banco financi6 US$25.2 miles. El componente relacionado
con el Programa de Reconstrucci6n de Guadalajara ascendi6
aproximadamente a US$180.3 millones; del cual alrededor del
10.0% (US$18.1 millones) fue financiado por el Banco, 11.9%
(US$21.4 millones) por el BID, y el resto 78.1 % (US$ 140.8
millones) con recursos locales. BANOBRAS entreg6 el cuadro
con   la  relacion  de   contratos   de   agua  potable   y
alcantarillado  que  fueron  financiados  parcialmente  con
recursos de este prestamo. BANOBRAS enviara en breve al
Banco los datos de personal de BANOBRAS (ver rubro 13).
10.- Al 22 de Agosto de 1994, el total desembolsado del prestamo
suma US$38.2 millones. Para el 31 de Diciembre de 1994,
BANOBRAS    ha   estimado   desembolsos    adicionales    de
aproximadamente US$1.4 millones, asimismo, la cancelaci6n de
fondos restantes del prestamo por US$0.3 millones. El plazo
de desembolso del prestamo es el 31 de Diciembre de 1994.
BANOBRAS no ha estimado solicitar al Banco un periodo de



- 31 -
Aide Memoire
pr6rroga adicional para los desembolsos del prestamo en
referencia. En forma anexa se presentan el estado de
desembolsos del prestamo por categorlas de gastos.
11.- La Misi6n, en companiia del Sr. Geoffrey Kirkman, consultor
de las oficinas del Banco en Mexico, visit6 Guadalajara los
dias 25 y 26 de Agosto de 1994. En este periodo, la Misi6n
tuvo la oportunidad de conocer y observar ampliamente las
obras realizadas en la ciudad de Guadalajara e intercambiar
opiniones con los funcionarios de SEDEUR, INSERJALSA, CNA y
BANOBRAS que participaron directamente en la ejecuci6n del
proyecto. Se visitaron el lugar de las obras y tambi6n
mediante diapositivas y fotos se pudo observar el nivel de
los dafnos causados por las explosiones en las redes de
alcantarillado. Durante esta misma visita, la Misi6n analiz6
detalladamente los costos de las inversiones, tanto las
provenientes   con   recursos   locales,    como   aquellas
provenientes con recursos del Banco y BID. Nuevamente, se
pudo verificar el grado de colaboracion y ayuda manifestado
por todas las diferentes instituciones que participaron en
el proyecto de reconstruccion de las obras.
12.- La Misi6n tuvo la oportunidad de proveer un temario basico a
BANOBRAS para la preparaci6n de su informe final que incluye
aquellos aspectos necesarios en el informe. Asimismo, la
Misi6n pudo asesorar a BANOBRAS en la forma de preparaci6n y
de disefio del mismo. La Misi6n manifesto que dicho informe
no debera ser mayor a diez paginas, y que debera tambien
incluir un resumen del mismo (ver anexo del ayuda memoria).
13.- La Misi6n solicit6 los datos relacionados con el total del
personal de BANOBRAS durante los ultimos cinco afios, sin
embargo estos datos no han sido proporcionados. Vale la pena
mencionar que dichos datos tambien fueron solicitados
durante la evaluaci6n del proyecto 3271-ME y no fue
proporcionada.
14.-   La  Misi6n  tuvo  la  oportunidad  de  visitar  CENADEM  e
intercambiar opiniones con los funcionarios de ese centro,
que tambien facilitaron informaci6n sobre los diferentes
programas del centro. La informaci6n relacionada con la
actividades del FORTAMUN no pudo analizarse debido a que los
funcionarios que fueron responsables de esas actividades ya
no pertenecen al CENADEM. Sin embargo, los funcionarios del
centro prometieron enviar alguna informaci6n al Banco.



- 32 -
Aide Memoire
Proyecto 3751-ME
15.- Con relaci6n a las dos condiciones de efectividad del
prestamo 3751-ME, BANOBRAS informo a la Misi6n que la SHCP
y BANOBRAS estan analizando la forma de derivaci6n de
recursos con el fin de que BANOBRAS adecue el contrato de
apertura de credito entre el propio Gobierno Federal y
BANOBRAS y esperan llegar a un acuerdo previo al convenio
contractual requerido para la efectividad del prestamo.
16.- Con relaci6n al la segunda condicionalidad del prestamo,
BANOBRAS inform6 a la Misi6n, que actualmente se esta en
proceso del establecimiento del Sistema de Informaci6n
Gerencial (MIS) y que ya se ha seleccionado el personal para
la  Unidad  Ejecutiva  de  Coordinaci6n   (ECU).  Toda  la
documentaci6n final y requerida serl presentada al Banco
durante la visita oficial que funcionarios de BANOBRAS
realizaran a la sede del Banco del 5 al 9 de Septiembre de
1994. Igualmente la relacionada con el rubro anterior.
17.- La Misi6n agradece todas las atenciones, cortesia, y
colaboraci6n recibidas en todo momento, de parte de
funcionarios de las entidades anteriormente mencionadas.
zilJICO IIDMD  .                                 BANOBRAS
40" _ aCC-



-33-
JBANCO NACIONAL OS O-RAS Y SERVICIOS PUELICOS, S.N.C.
a                                           @~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOTITUC1ON ON E*f4C  0- OSSAWWiLLO
TECOYOTITLA No 100  COL. FLORIDA   C P 01030  MEXICO. D F
BANOBRAS
DIVISION DE DESEMBOLSOS BID-BIRF
PRESTAMO BIRF : 2666-ME FORTAMUN-BANOBRAS
CATEGORIAS: 1, 2, 3, 4 Y_5
DESEMBOLSOS AL 22-AGOSTO-1994 (U.S. DLS.)
I___-                              -      -       -      -     -       --_-                        ---
I           1             1       2         1       3         1         4        i           5        1        6         1
II     ONTO      I DESENIOLSADO  I DESEMBOLSADO   I  TOTAL DESENWOL- I             POR        I
I                         I   ASIGNADO    I    AL 31 DE    I   DE ENERO A    I           SADo AL      I DESEItOLSAR AL  I
ICATE6.    CONCEPTO       I                 I DICIENBRE-1993 I 22-A6OSTO-1994  I  22-AGOSTO-1994  I 22-ASOSTO-1994  I
1I   ASISTENCIA TECNICA I        25,162.54 I       25,162.54 I              0.00 1         25,162.54 I             0.00 1
1 2  BASTOS ADMINISTRA-  I      170,406.78 I      110,406.76 1              0.00 1        110,406.76 1             0.00 I
I    TIVOS
1 3   SUIPRESTAMOS Y      1  2,332,762.33 1   2,332,762.33 1                0.00 1      2,332,762.33 1             0.00 I
I     COXCESIONES         I                 I    .            I                  I                    I
I                         I            .    I                 I                  I                    I 
1 4  APOYD AL PROGRAMA   1 18,481,024.33 1 16,113,495.34 I                  0.00 I     11,113,495.34 I       367,528.99 1
I    ENERGENTE DE WUAD.  I                  I                 I                  I                    I
I S  OtRA CIVIL-SECTORIALI  18,990,644.02 1             0.00 1   11,564,989.94 1       11,564,989.94 1    1,425,654.08 1
I    DE AGUA-BANOBRAS    I                  I                 I                  I                    I                  I
I                         I                 I                 I                  I                    II
I                         I                 I                 I                  I                    I                  I
I  CUENTA ESPECIAL        I                 1   2,022,913.38 1   (2,000,000.00)(1)         22,913.38 1       (22,913.36)1
I                         I                 I                 I                  I                    I                  I
I T O T A L E S :         1 40,000,000.00 1 22,664,740.37 1   15,564,989.94 1          36,229,730.31 1    1,770,269.69 1
l1l) NONTO APLICADO A LA JUSTIFICACION DE DOCUIENTOS           INTEGRACION DEL CREDITO 2666-HE         IHPORTE U.S. DLS.I
I   DEL DEPOSITO INICIAL A LA CUENTA ESFECIAL.                 - - --------------------------------- -------------- I
I                                                              INPORTE ASUWIDO FOR SODIERNO FEDERAL        3,823,099.36 1
1                                                              NONTO A FAVOR BAN0ORAS-EJECUTOR            36,176,900.64 1
I                                                              NONTO ORI6INAL EL CONTRATO  :              40,000,000.00 I
IELAD.: HTZtLHT                                                                                        :: 2::::: :52::
________________________________________.______________________________________________



..                                - 34-
anexo
BANOBRAS
INFORME FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACION
*     Resumen
Evaluaci6n de los objetivos del proyecto, disenio e implementaci6n, y la experiencia
operacional del proyecto.
Evaluaci6n de BANOBRAS
ArnMiisis del comportamiento de BANOBRAS durante la evoluci6n e implementaci6n del
proyecto, con especial atenci6n a aquellas lecciones derivadas y que podrian ser
relevantes para operaciones futuras.
*     Evaluaci6n del Banco
Analisis del comportamiento del Banco y otras co-financieras y cualquier otra instituci6n,
que participo en el proyecto, durante la evoluci6n e implementaci6n del proyecto,
incluyendo la efectividad de las relaciones entre BANOBRAS, Banco y otras instituciones
co-financieras. Atenci6n especial debera darse a aquellas lecciones derivadas de la
experiencia del proyecto.



- 35 -
anexo
LISTA DE FUNCIONARIOS ENTREVISTADOS
BANOBRAS
1.-   Lic. Guillermo Castellanos Guzman, Sub-Director de Financiamiento al Desarrollo Urbano
2.-   Lic. Ismael Diaz, Gerente de Organismos Financieros Internacionales
3.-   Lic Jesuis Morales, Sub-Gerente de Proyectos de Desarrollo Urbano
4.-   Lic. Eduardo Ibaiiez, Gerente de Financiamiento al Sector Agua Potable-Alcantarillado
5.-   Lic. Guillermo Reynal, Sub-Gerente de Operaciones Activas BIRF-BID
6.-   Lic Alejandro Peralta, Jefe de Divisi6n de Desarrollo
7.-   C.P. Miguel Angel Castellanos, Control de Pagos CNA-SEDESOL
8.-   Lic. Marco Antonio Olmedo, Delegado del Estado de Jalisco
9.-   C.P. Jose Ma. Luna Arellano, Sub-Delegado de Finanzas
10.-  C.P. Salvador Martinez, Sub-Delegado de Financiamiento al Desarrollo
CNA
1.-   Lic. Romarico Arroyo, Sub-Director General de Infraestructura Hidra-Urbana
2.-   Lic. Maria de los Angeles Peralta, Gerente de Captaci6n Recursos Financieros
3.    Ing. Ram6n Guerra, Gerente de estudios y Proyectos Infra. Hidraulica-Urbana
INSERJALSA
1.-  Ing. Jose Moran,
CENADEM
1.-   Arq. Alberto Walker Lopez, Vocal Ejecutivo



- 36 -
2..-   Dr. Jose G. Palacios, Sub-Director del Centro Informaci6n Municipal
3.-   Lic. Jaime Orozco, Director de Asistencia Tecnica a Municipios



MAP SECTION






9*~~~~ \+ Sos ~~~~~~~M E X I C O
+    .~~~~~ ~~fLi4~~~~~ ,
L.                                                                                                                    30* .  capital
U~>n-(y<Oi'.                                                        N,~- -.
stt.. capital.
o  PN;,  ipaI citie. /  10.-,1
'  A^__     9     0       rJf              \ Sw                      Nmo #La              ,                                 _   Divided higqwo
- 4 -                                                                                                                                ( T gC Poo<| ;i 0x Roilr ods
+PnnciPeI a.W-ts
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -^,>                                           Slut h .  ciduvi
e r.wmical 6-d- _                                                                        >                                 F f <               ,
- hE                               -    -                                                                             i
KIOEOTt E, 0 e    2XO    XO   400   500                                                               =-       = -               I T_                                  I **   .
MILES 0      100       200       XO0                                                                   .-.                                            GUATEMALA,
- -f5                                                                                                                        Tropob                    , HONDURAS
llr                           .                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEERuARt IY9:









. j  ,, 1                             -
o: ; ::::
i_:l   l-                               :S
;-
:                              a:
l -j                                  l --
-i | r !
r-
j_._
' 
. .



