Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5974-ME
STAFF APPRAI'SL REPORT
MEXICO
KUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
March 5, 1986
Urban Projects Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Mexican Peso (Mex.$)
Calendar 1984         (Appraisal)
Currency Unit         Average           August 03, 1985   December 30, 1985
US$1.00    =       Mex S 167.8             Hex S246            Mex S 367
Nex $1.00  -       US  $   0.006           Us  S0.004          US  $   0.003
Hex $1,000 3       US  $   5.96            Us  $4.07           US  S   2.73
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYHS
BANOBRAS       -    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(National Rank of Puhlic Works and Services)
CECADE         -    Centro de Capacitacion para el Desarrollo
(Center for Development Training)
CEDADEM        -    Centro de Estudios, Documentacion v Asistencia para el
Desarrollo Municipal
(Center for Studies, Documentation and Assistance for
Municipal Development)
CNEM           -    Centro Nacional de Estudios Municipales
(National Center for Municipal Studies)
FORTAMUN       -    Programa de Fortalecimiento Municipal
(Program for the Strengthening of Municipalities)
FRR            -    Financial Rate of Return
GIRA           -    General Interest Rate Agreement
INAP           -    Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica
(National Institute of Public Administration)
INCAFI         -    Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion Fiscal (de la
Secretaria de Facienda y Credito Puhlico)
(National Institute for Fiscal Training - belongs to
the Secretariat of the Treasury and Public Credit)
INDETFC        -    Instituto para el Desarrollo Tecnico de las Raciendas
(Institute for Technical Development of Public Assets)
IPADE          -    Instituto Panamericano de Alta Direccion de Empresa
(Pan American Institute for Higher Management Training)
MDF            -    Municipal Development Fund
SEDUE          -    Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano v Ecologia
(Secretariat for Urban Development and Ecology)
SC             -    Secretaria de Gobernacion
(Secretariat of the Government)
SHCP           -    Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Secretariat of the Treasury and Public Credit)
SPP            -    Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(Secretariat of Programming and Budget)
TS             -    Secretariado Tecnico
(Technical Secretariat)
TSTU           -    Unidad de Apoyo de Entrenamiento
(Training Support Unit)



FOR OFFILIL USE ONLY
MEXECO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY             I................                1
II.   SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND ..................4......              4
Government Objectives and Strategy ...................           4
Sector Organization ....*5
Municipal Finance                 ........                       7
Bank Sector Strategy, Past Experience and Rational for
Bank Involvement .......         ...............7
III.  THE PROJECT                    9...........*                         9
Project Objectives and Description ......9........-..            9
Program Structure *.......9
Project Cost and Financing                                      12
Procurement and Disbursement                                   12
Accounts and Auditing              ..........                  13
Project Organization and Management                            14
Implementation Schedule .....                                  15
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements .............             15
Local Finance and Cost Recovery                                 15
On-lending Terms and Procedures                                16
Appraisal of Sub-borrowers               ...........s..       16
Subproject Appraisal .        ...............                  16
Subloan Agreements .. .......                       ...*c      16
Matching Grants ......................................          17
Justification and Benefits                                     17
Project Risks           .......................                18
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................          18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Mexico in August 1985. The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes.
Braz Menezes, (Mission Leader), G. Yabrudy, LCPUR; K. Mera, WUD; R. Johnson
and G. Howell, (Consultants). Mrs. Miriam Torres assisted in the produc-
tion of fEe report.
Thi document ha a tricd distfibutin and may be ud by rcpient only in therpfoance
ofther officad duteL it contents my not otherwisbe dicied without Wodd Dank authoution.



-li-
ANNXS
ANNEX 1: Detailed Component Features
101 Human Resource Development and Organizational
Strengthening at Municipal, State and Federal Levels
1.2 Decentralization of Federal Public Administration
ANNEX 2: Distribution Data
2.1 Eligible Subprojects, Distribution of Investments, and
Recommendations on Cost Recovery Mechanisms
2.2 Distribution of Municipality by Group type and
Distribution of Subloans by Subsector
2.3 Flow of Funds Chart
ANNEX 3: Implementation Aspects
3.1 Organizational Chart for Implementation
3.2 Selection of States for 7ear I, Numbers of
Municipalities, and Administrative Calendar
3.3 Selection Criteria for Participation in Program
3.4 Allocation Criteria for Matching Grants
ANNEX 4:  Information System and Performance Monitoring
4.1 Monitoring and Evaluation System
4.2 Chart - Organization of Information Flows
4.3 Key Performance Indicators
ANNEX 5:  Excerpts from the Operational Manual
5.1 Implementation Procedure of the FORTAMUN program in
each State
5.2 Proforma for Financial Appraisal of each Municipality
5.3 Proforms A - Pre-appraisal of Sub-borrower
5.4 Proforms B - Appraisal Request for Subprojects
5.5 Contents of the Operational Manual
ANNEX 6:  Financial Aspects
6.1 An Overview of Municipal Finance in Mexico
6.2 BANOBRAS Finances, Activities and Future Orientation
6.3  Matching Grants and Impact on the Fund (FORTAIMUN)
ANNEX 7:  Cost Tables and Disbursements Schedules
7.1 Detailed Cost Table (9 years)
7.2 Summry of Project Cost (5 years)
7.3 Detailed Table (5 years)
7.4 Disbursement Schedule (9 years)
7.5 Disbursement Schedule (5 years)
ANNEX 8: Selected Documents on Project File
MAP   IBID No. 15553



mHXICO
MATrICIPAL STRENGTi ENING PROJECT
PART I: LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower      :   Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
(BANORRAS)
Guarantor     :   United Mexican States
Beneficiaries :   Municipalities, and various federal and state agencies
(Staff Development and Organizational Strengthening).
Amount             USS40.0 million equivalent
Terms              Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variahle interest rate.
Relending Terms:   The Peso equivalent of about US$61 million would he
relent. Subloans vould he made to cover at most 80% of
subproject costs, at interest rates specified in the
General Interest Rate Axreement (GIRA), and according to
the following terms:   (a) roads, sidewalks, drainage,
parks and recreation areas - 5 years, including one year
of grace or completion of construction, whichever is
shorter; (b) water supply, solid waste infrastructure,
municipal vehicle and equipment maintenance workshops -
15 years, including four years of grace or completion of
construction; (c) municipal markets, slaughterhouses,
public transport terminals and equipment - 10 years,
including three years of grace or completion of cons-
truction; and (d) solid waste equipment and vehicles and
micro-computers and equipment - 5 years without a grace
period.  For the Staff Development and Organizational
Strengthenipg components, and for Project Administra-
tion, proceeds of the loan would be made available to
the relevant implementing agencies on a grant basis.
Project            The Government's program objectives are to improve the
Objectives and     utilization of human and financial resources and streng-
Description:       then institutions, partic'ilarly at the municipal level,
to increase the delivery of affordable and efficient
urban services.   Within these overall program object-
ives, the proposed project would:   (a) strengthen and
coordinate federal and state agencies to become proinot-
era for municipal development, through provision of
financial resources and effective training programs; (b)
strengthen the municipalities' organizational, adminis-
trative and financial management systems and perform
ance; and (c) assist municipalities in expanding and
upgrading urban infrastructure.



The project objectives would be achieved through the
implementation of the following components:  (i) Munic-
ipal Staff Development and Management Strengthening;
(ii) Federal and State Staff Development and Institu-
tional Strengthening; (iii) Infrastructure and Related
Investment Fund for Municipal Development; and (iv)
Project Administration.
Project Benefits: The principal benefit of the proposed project would be
the improved policy and financial environment for munic-
ipal development which would he necessary for the imple-
mentation of the Government's decentralization program.
Rationalization of BANORRAS' policies, practices and
procedures for provision of municipal credit, reinforce-
ment of federal and state agencies' capacity to provide
technical assistance to municipalities, and training
programs would introduce a more rational planning and
investment process, stimulate local resource generation
and cost control measures and provide a reliable source
of long-term financing for municipal development.  The
improvement of operational and financial management
policies and rationalization of grant financing for
municipal services would lead to reduced demands on the
national budget through greater local resource mobiliza-
tion.   In addition to significant health and social
benefits, the project would have a positive environment-
al impact in subproject municipalities.
Project Risks:     The major profect risks are: (a) the inherent difficult-
ies in coordination; (b) the capacity and willingness of
BANOBRAS to make appropriate changes; and (c) the
possible loss of political momentum. The estahlishment
of an independent Technical Secretariat and Training
Support Unit, and the definition of clear roles, respon-
sibilities and procedures in the Operating Guidelines,
are expected to reduce difficulties in coordination.
Previous urban and water supply lending operations have
been partially constrained by problems within BANOBRAS.
However, the project addresses these issues. BANOBRAS'
coordination of the project preparation effort and the
degree and rapidity with which changes in policy have
been processed have been exemplary and indicate the
management's and SRCP's commitment to change. Finally;
the Government will be encouraged to accelerate imple-
mentation within the first five years to obtain a quick
feedback, and also benefit from the momentum set in
place by the present Administration.



- 3 -
Table 1: Pro,tect Costs
USS '000
Local     Forelic     Total
A. Municipal Staff Development
1. Staff Training                            5,123         103     5,226
2. Technical Assistance & Promotional
Activities                        -       1,016           0     1,016
3. Equipment and Materials                     296       1,183     1,479
SUB-TOTAL A                               6,435       1,286     7,721
B. Federal and State Staff Development
1. Staff Training                            1,051           0     1,051
2. Training of Trainers                         21           0        21
3. Technical Assistance and Training         3,565         832     4,397
4. Information System and Studies               87         350       437
5. Equipment and Materials                      40         162       202
SUB-TOTAL B                               4,764       1,344     6,108
C. Infrastructure and Related Investments  45,750        15,250    61,000
D. Project Administration                     2,097           0     2,097
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                     59,0        17,879    76,926
Physical Contingencies                       65         134       200
Price Contingencies                       2,569         306     2,874
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 1/                  61,681        18,319   80,000
Financing Plan:                              Local       Foreign     Total
,uS  ' 000)
Government of M4exico                   27,800             0    27,800
Municipalities                           12,200            0    12,200
Bank                                    21,681        1R,319    40,000
Estimatec Disbursements:
FY  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
CUSS million)
Annual        4.44   5.43   5.72   5.73   5.R5   5.03   3.59   2.53   1.68
Cumulative    4.44   9.87  15.59  21.32  27.17  32.20  35.79  38.32  40.00
Economic Rate of Return:    N/A
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 5974-ME, dated March 5, 1986
1/ Figures do not add due to rounding. The Droiect costs are net of
duties and taxes.



-4-
PART II - SECTOR BACKGROUND
Government Objectives and Strategy
2.01      Mexico's outstanding spatial problems are the heavy concentration
of economic activity, wealth and population in Mexico City, the lack of
integration between urban and rural areas, and unbalanced inter-regional
development.  Population growth has declined from 3.2% p.a. in the early
1970s to 2.6Z p.a. at present.   Approximately 68% of the country's 75
million people live in urban centers of more than 2,500 inhabitants, while
about 26% of the population live in the three main metropolitan areas:
Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey.
2.02         Providing basic municipal services and improving the social
well-being of all Mexicans has preoccupied successive Administrations.
During the decade of the 70's and early 80's, the percentage of the popul-
ation with access to piped water increased from 49 to 66Z and the percent-
age connections to sewers or sanitation increased from 29 to 43%. However,
the recent economic climate has led to a significant rise in services
deficits nationwide and a deterioration in existing infrastructure through
poor maintenance and lack of training.
2.03        Successive administrations have attempted to address the over
concentration of people and economic activity in Mexico City (and to a
lesser extent in Guadalajara and Monterrey) through major decentralization
efforts. During the previous administration (1976-82) physical decentrali-
zation was given priority through, inter alia: the enactment of the Law of
Human Settlements, the creation of a new Ministry of Human Settlements and
Public Works, the issuance of new federal-state institutional procedures
and the creation of large federal programs and special incentive schemes to
attract investments in pre-defined priority regions.
2.04      President Miguel de la Madrid's administration has again assigned
high priority to decentralization efforts.   The Government, as the first
initiative towards establishing a base for its decentralization policies,
in February 1983, modified Article 115 of the Constitution which governs
municipal functions.  This modification defined the legal responsibilities
of municipalities to include the plAnning, financing, implementing, operat-
ing and maintaining  of basic municipal services.   Through  subsequent
related decrees, the role of federal agencies were modified to conform to
the municipalities' increased responsibilities.
2.05       The Government's decentralization strategy, is outlined in the
Program for the Decentralization of the Federal Public Administration,
published in January 1985. Unlike previous approaches which mostly concen-
trated on physical decentralization (deconcentration), the present strategy
emphasizes the delegation of responsibilities which were previously cen-
tralized in federal government secretariats in Mexico City, to either
federal agencies operating at the state level or to state and municipal



governments.   This strategy will imply and require more state and local
participation in programming and implementing investment decisions, greater
coordination among central agencies and between federal, state and
municipal governments, more state and local inputs into policy planning
with federal agencies providing overall policy guidance, technical outreach
support and overall evaluation of programs.
2.06      On September 19, 1985, Mexico was hit by one of the worst earth-
quakes in its history, measuring 8.1 on the Richter scale. The earthquake
and subsequent aftershocks caused severe damage in Mexico City and in the
states of Jalisco, Michoacan, Colima, Guerrero and Mexico. In Mexico City
alone, an estimated 60% of federal government buildings were destroyed or
heavily damaged and need to be demolished.   Instead of reconstructing
office space in Mexico City, the Government has decided to accelerate the
ongoing decentralization program. Staff and operations of various Secreta-
riats are to be relocated to 20 cities which have been selected on the
basis of, inter alia, their physical location, existing population and rate
of growth, land availability, and capacity for expanding use of existing
infrastructure. The Government's objective is to address the decentraliza-
tion program in these 20 cities in an integrated manner in which, policy,
financing and investments are coordinated at the federal level, with state
and municipal plans and programs.   The proposed project would finance
studies for the development of detailed plans for decentralization in 20
priority cities as well as pilot municipal investments in two selected
cities (Annex 1.2).
Sector Organization
2.07      The Government structure in Mexico is highly centralized with the
federal government selectively delegating power tc the 31 states and 2379
municipalities. Municipalities are the primary political and administrat-
ive units of government. Municipal governments are headed by mayors which,
together with approximately 10% of senior municipal officials, are elected
for three-year terms and are not eligible for reelection.   In accordance
with the recent modifications to Article 115 of the Constitution, munici-
palities are responsibile for the planning and delivery of various urban
services  including:   water supply  and sewerage, drainage, solid waste
management, roads and streetlighting, retail and wholesale markets, slaugh-
terhouses, parks and gardens, graveyards, traffic management and public
security.   Municipal governments have full authority to set and collect
user charges and property taxes, to plan, finance and implement invest-
ments, and to operate and maintain basic municipal services. However, the
administrative, financial and managerial capabilities of municipalities
vary substantially; only about 100 of the larger municipalities are capable
of undertaking their legal responsibilities. The absence of both qualified
technical staff and adequate access to technical assistance and training
result in reduced mobilization of financial resources at the municipal
level, slow implementation of projects and overall inefficiency in the pro-
vision,  operation and maintenance of basic municipal services.   While
municipalities have recently been given increased responsibilities, no



clear municipal training policy has been adopted by Federal and State
governments; heretofore training of municipal staff has taken place infor-
mally on the job or on an ad-hoc basis. Strengthening municipal management
through intensive training programs in order to improve the provision of
basic municipal services is, therefore, essential for the success of the
Government's decentralization program.
2.08      At the federal level, various Government agencies are involved in
overseeing policy in and providing technical assistance to municipalities.
The Secretaria de Gobernacion (SG) is concerned with the jurisdiction,
status and administration of local governments and their political
relations  with the Federal Government.   The Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito  Publico  (SHCP)  is  responsible  for  revenue  collection,  for
overseeing the financial management and revenue operations of local govern-
ments, for determining sources of financing at the federal level, and for
the operation and management (including credit operations) of the Govern-
ment's financial agents.   The Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(SPP) reviews and subsequently evaluates state and local budgets to ensure
their priorities are consistent with national and regional plans, programs
and statutory requirements. SPP is also responsible for the allocation of
federal  budgetary  al'locations  to  municipalities.    The  Secretaria  de
Desarrollo Urbana y Ecologia (SEDUE) is the principal normative authority
responsible for water supply, sewerage, solid waste and other basic munici-
pal services. SEDUE is responsible for advising on and reviewing of land
use plans prepared by state and local governments and for providing techn-
ical assistance and support for all municipal and urban services.  All of
the Secretariats have regional offices in each state.
2.09       BANOBRAS is a financial agent of the Government responsible for
financing infrastructure (urban development, water supply, highway, etc.)
investments (Annex 6.2).   The federal goverament, through SHCP, controls
BANOBRAS' policies and directs its borrowings and lending activities.
BANOBRAS onlends funds to states and municipalities through various
windows- on varying terms and conditions. However, in view of the intern-
al organization requiring coordination among four divisions (External
Credit, Planning, Operations and Training), as well as complex bureaucratic
procedures for loan application and processing, and lack of promotion,
BANOBRAS has not been a major source of funding to municipalities.   A
Government decree issued in July 1985, modifies the status of BANOBRAS to
that  of a National Credit  Institution and Development  Bank.    In its
expanded capacity, BANOBRAS is to become more actively involved in initiat-
ing,  preparing,  appraising  and  supervising  investment  projects.    In
addition to headquarters in Mexico City, BANOBRAS has six regional
branches.  BANOBRAS has also under discussion a program for establishing
branches at each state level, pari passu with project implementation,
adequately staffed to carry out appraisals, loan processing and monitoring
operations. In the meantime, BANOBRAS has undertaken to implement adminis-
trative and operational measures at the regional and state levels as
required for the efficient and timely implementation of the project,
including mechanisms for the promotion of the Government 's Program for the
Strengthening of Municipalities and for the provision of financial services
required by eligible municipalities in connection with the execution of
sub-projects.



2.10      In support of the Government's decentralization efforts, federal,
state and municipal agencies have been instructed to create special intern-
al units which would provide technical and financial assistance and train-
ing to municipalities. There is, however, at present, no proper framework
for coordinating the activities of these units and there is considerable
ambiguity on the roles and responsibilities of the various agencies. The
proposed project would assist the Government in addressing this issue on a
pilot basis by developing the framework, direction and necessary technical
and financial assistance so as to strengthen all municipalities over the
next 10-15 years.
Municipal Finance
2.11      An overview of Municipal Finance in Mexico is given in Annex 6.1
and summarized below. Althougt municipalities are now expected to provide
a wide range of urban services, their finances and accounting records are
generally  weak  and  inadequat .    Over  the  1977-1982  period municipal
revenues grew at an average annual rate of 18% in real terms, while expen-
ditures grew at an average annual rate of 12% in real terms.  Municipal
borrowing remained at a constant 4% of revenues throughout this period.
The revenues and borrowing capacity of municipalities are sufficient to
support increased capital investment to improve the quality of municipal
services and expand their coverage.   The most striking trend, over that
period, was the 33% average annual increase (in real terms) in transfers to
municipalities through federal revenue sharing. These transfers increased
from 25% of total revenues in 1977 to 42% in 1982.  In addition to federal
revenue sharing, federal and state subsidies to municipalities (excluding
credit subsidies) increased at an average annual rate of 15% in real terms
during  this  period.    Total  transfers  (revenue  sharing  plus  direct
subsidies) grew as a proportion of total municipal revenues from 45% in
1977  to  59%  in  1982.    Municipally  generated  revenues,  including
borrowings,decreased from 55% of total revenues in 1977 to 41% in 1982.
2.12      Given domestic resource constraints, it is unlikely that munici-
palities will, in the future, receive this increasing amount of federal
government support. Municipal governments will need to generate consider-
ably more resources to meet the needs of their growing population. Modifi-
cation of Article 115 of the Constitution provides the legal instruments
for substantial increases in municipal own-source revenues.   Municipali-
ties, which previously received 15Z of property taxes collected by states,
are now responsible for collecting property taxes and retaining 80% of
collections. Furthermore, municipalities now collect and retain all user
charges for water, sewerage and drainage systems, solid waste services,
markets and slaughterhouses,  among other basic services.   Finally,  as
municipalities have adopted conservative fiscal policies they have
considerable potential for borrowing.
Bank Sector Strategy, Past Experience and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.13       Mexico's urbanization pattern and the inordinate growth of the
Mexico City Region has been a recurrent subject of dialogue between the



Bank and Mexican authorities.   Since 1978, the Bank has assisted the
Government in projects aimed at addressing spatial decentralization through
the development of alternative growth poles and deconcentration of the
Mexico City Region.
2.14      The first urban project supported by the Bank in Mexico was the
Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project (Loan No. 1554-ME of
September 27, 1978). This project was an attempt to deal with a variety of
urban and regional development issues in a priority region which had bten
the subject of other Bank-supported projects. The Second Urban and Region-
al Development Project (Loan No. 1990-ME of May 12, 1981), addressed
similar issues in the oil-producing areas of Tabasco, Veracruz and
Chiapas.  Both projects were aimed at providing infrastructure, community
facilities, low-cost housing and credits for productive enterprises to comr-
plement expanding economic activity in growing peripheral regions. Imple-
mentation of these projects was adversely affected by difficulties in
institutional coordination, inadequate technical and financial capacity at
the state and municipal level, and complex bureaucratic procedures. These
issues would be addressed under the proposed project.  The latter project
has, in addition, been affected by reduced absorptive capacity in the
project area, as well as, by recently revised administrative arrangements
necessitated by the Government's decentralization program.  The Deconcen-
tration Program for the Mexico City Region (Loan No. 2194-iME of August 3.
1982) supports the preparation of a pre-investment stage of a deconcentra-
tion program for the Mexico City region.   A Low Income Housing Project
(Loan No. 2612-ME of August 6, 1985), concentrating investments outside the
Mexico City region, and addressing macro issues on housing finance, is in
initial stages of implementation.
2.15      After an initial water supply project for the Mexico City region
(Loan No. 909-ME of June 1973), three subsequent water supply projects have
supported deconcentration efforts and more equitable regional distribution
of benefits through assistance in medium-size cities.  Through these pro-
jects, the Bank has assisted the Government in significantly improving
financial policies, planning and institutional capacities.   The institu-
tional arrangements under which these projects operate has been affected by
modifications to Article 115 of the Constitution and some adjustments to
account for the municipalities' increased responsibilities have been made.
2.16      The proposed project would provide timely support to the Govern-
ment's decentralization policies on a pilot basis by establishing the
institutional, organizational and financial management framework for the
future. The proposed project is expected to: (i) help improve the overall
municipal public sector management policy and consolidate the Government's
decentralization program; (ii) improve the institutional and financial
management of municipalities by gradually rationalizing the system of grant
transfers, and strengthening municipal finances through application of a
systematic methodology which would lead to appropriate pricing and cost
recovery  policies;   (iii)  reduce  federal  subsidies  to  states  and
municipalities by improving access to credit and improving local finance
mobilization; and (iv) establish, at the federal and state levels, a
coordinated and streamlined mechanism to provide financial and technical
assistance and training to enable municipalities to discharge their
assigned responsibilities.



- 9 -
2.17       Future Bank lending in both the Urban and Water Supply sectors
will necessarily incorporate the revised institutional framework required
as a result of the Government's decentralization policy. A series of pro-
jects in Solid Waste Management (processed in parallel), Small Cities Water
Supply, and Medium Cities Urban Transport are envisaged, to establish, at
the federal level, the technical subsector expertise and relevant institu-
tional coordination, required to provide municipalities with financial and
technical assistance and training, within the framework established under
the proposed project, to adequately discharge their responsibilities in
these subsectors.
PART III - THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project was identified in August, 1984 and appraised
in August, 1985.  Negotiations were held in Washington in February, 1986.
The Mexican delegation was led by Mr. German Sandoval of BANOBRAS.
Project Objectives and Description
3.02      The proposed project would support the Government's objectives to
improve the utilization of human and financial resources and strengthen
institutions, particularly at the municipal level, to increase the delivery
of affordable and efficient urban services.  Within these overall program
objectives, the proposed project would: (a) strengthen the municipalities'
organizational,  administrative  and  financial  management  systems  and
performance; (b) strengthen federal and state agencies in the area of
municipal development promotion, through provision of financial resources
and effective training programs; and (c) assist municipalities in expanding
and upgrading urban infrastructure.   The project ob4ectives would be
achieved through the implementation of the following components:   (a)
Municipal Staff Development and Organizational Strengthening; (b) Federal
and State Staff Development and Organizational Strengthening; (c) Infras-
tructure and Related Investment Fund for Municipal Development; and (d)
Project Administration.
3.03         Program Structure.   The project would emphasize a  'process'
orientation that would represent a shift away from traditional single
project analysis to an institutional appraisal focused on the municipality
as an important agent of national economic development.   The project is
designed around an 'ntegrated set of mutually supportive activities. After
carrying out a detailed institutional and financial appraisal, municipal-
ities would have access to credit for municipal infrastructure subject to
presenting subproject appraisals, participating in relevant training
programs and implementing required financial measures.   Because of the
pilot nature of the project, emphasis has been placed on monitoring and
evaluation for project management and subsequently for project performance
evaluation.   Specific indicators have been established for measuring the



- 10 -
performance of institutions and of beneficiary municipalities, as well as
the impact of the program as a whole.
3.04      The Government's Program for the Strengthening of Municipalities
(FORTAMUN) would be formally established under a mandate from SHCP to
BANOBRAS,  as  a  condition  of  effectiveness.    The  mandate  agreement
authorizes BANOBRAS to control funding and establishes the basic structure
of the program, including: (a) the establishment of a high-level ministe-
rial Steering Committee; (b) the establishment of a Technical Secretariat
for coordinating the various agencies and the program as a whole (paras.
3.14 and 3.15); (c) the establishment of a Training Support Unit responsi-
ble for providing detailed technical support to training agencies; and (d)
the formalization of the Operating Guidelines which detail the basis for
the operation of FORTAMUN. The Operating Guidelines include: (a) project
objectives; (b) participation criteria; (c) operating procedures; (d)
procedures for inst4tutiocal and financial appraisal of municipalities; (e)
procedures for financial, technical, and economic appraisal of subprojects;
(f) model subloan agreements; (g) procurement guidelines; (h) recommenda-
tion on cost recovery mechanisms; (i) accounting, auditing and reporting
requirements; and (j) monitoring and evaluation procedures. The Operating
Guidelines include a definition of concepts and data requirements relating
to municipal finance, methodology for analysis of historic data and other
indicators,  as  well  as  financial  projection  and  impact  techniques.
BANOBRAS has agreed to follow policies and procedures as outlined in the
Operating Guidelines, reviewed during negotiations, and to be acceptable to
the Bank as a condition of effectiveness, and would not make any changes in
the guidelines which would adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project.
3.05        Municipal Staff Development and Organizational Strengthening.
The Municipal Staff Development component would support a coordinated
program to upgrade the administrative and financial capacity of selected
municipalities through the training of:  (a) about 14,350 senior municipal
officials requiring structured orientation of Government priorities for
municipal reform; (b) about 5,000 mid-level municipal officials responsible
for the continued operation of services and programs across municipal
administrations; and (c) about 260 trainers. The project would finance the
cost of courses, travel and subsistence and required equipment and mate-
rials. To the extent possible, existing facilities, courses and curricula
would be utilized. The following six training themes would be provided to
initiate the program:   Program Priorities, Financial Management, Credit
Management, Municipal Administration, Legal Aspects, and Technical Serv-
ices.   Training for mid-level officials would focus on specific skill
training such as improving cadastres, accounting, inventory control,
pricing of services, programming, project formulation, economic evaluation
and project appraisal, and operation and maintenance. Additional training
materials would be developed under the project.  In addition, this compo-
nent would include a program of technical assistance and fellowships to:
(a) assist municipalities in implementing improved financial and adminis-
trative management systems; (b) strengthen training agencies by contracting
with national or foreign institutions for specialist staff; (c) provide for
program planning and evaluation; and (d) provide study visits to assist in



- 11 -
technical and pedagogical aspects of curriculum development, implementation
of training courses and operational systems. A detailed description of the
Training and Technical Assistance components for municipal, federal and
state level staff is given in Annex 1.1.
3.06           Federal and  State  Staff  Development  and  Organizational
Strengthening.   The Federal and State Staff Development component would
provide for:  training of staff of federal and state agencies providing
outreach support to municipalities, including, SG, SHCP, SPP, SEDUE,
BANOBRAS, their regio.lal branches, relevant state-level agencies and train-
ing subsidiaries,  as well as training the trainers.   The project would
finance the cost of courses, travel and subsistence, required equipment and
materials, and related technical assistance and fellowships. This compo-
nent would include technical assistance, training and studies to carry out
preinvestment training and detailed feasibility studies for the 20 cities
selected for the Government's decentralization (Annex 1.2), and a minicipal
manpower training study.  The SG, assisted by the Training Support Unit,
would establish an itformation and data system to examine the characteris-
tics of municipal manpower and prepare an assessment of training needs as a
prerequisite to formulating a National Municipal Training Policy. Outline
Terms of Reference for the studies have been agreed and would be submitted
to the Bank in detail for review as a condition of disbursement against
that sub-component.
3.07      Infrastructure and Related Investment Fund for Municipal Develop-
ment.   This component would support the establishment  of a municipal
development fund (MDF) within BANOBRAS to provide subloans to municipal-
ities in respect of subproject investments in water supply, sewerage,
roads, drainage, streetlighting, markets, slaughterhouses, etc. (Annex
2.1).  Municipalities, depending on their financial needs, would receive
partial  subproject  funding  through  matching grants  (para.  3.25).   In
addition to channelling government budgetary support for municipal subpro-
jects in conjunction with credit funds, the MDF would serve to demonstrate
the simplification of subloan application procedures, reduction in subloan
review period and improvements in BANOBRAS' appraisal process, including a
-pre-appraisal- process through which a municipality would be prequalified
for a line-of-credit based on its financial situation and debt-carrying
capacity  (para.  3.21).   Two pilot subprojects would finance municipal
infrastructure in cities targetted under the Government's decentralization
program.   With the exception of the pilot subprojects which would not
individually exceed US$12.0 million, subprojects financed under the MDF
would not exceed US$2.0 million.
3.08      Project Administration.  The project would finance the salary of
key full-time staff of the TS and TSU (paras. 3.14 and 3.15) as well as
travel and subsistence costs, materials and equipment required for project
administration.



- 12 -
Project Cost and Financing
3.09       The total project cost, excluding taxes, but including physical
and price contingencies, is estimated at US$80.0 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange cost of US$18.3 million.  Costs for the training and tech-
nical assistance components have been based on an analysis of similar
recent expenditures by each of the executing agencies (para. 3.15).
Approximately 1,475 staff months of consultants' services have been
estimated to carry out training, technical assistance, studies and support
activities. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed on the train-
ing and technical assistance components. Similarly, price contingencies on
the training and technical assistance components only, have been estimated
according to a nine-year disbursement profile, on US dollar based values at
7% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7Z for 1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5%
for 1991 onwards.  Base costs are expressed in December 1985 prices.  A
detailed cost table for a 9-year implementation period is shown in Table
7.1 (Annex 7). The Government intends however to complete the project in 5
years, in part to minimize risks over the possible loss of political
momentum (para 3.27). This would result in the overall project costs being
reduced by about 2%, or from US$80.0 million to US$78.3 million (Tables 7.2
and 7.3), and would increase the total number of possible subprojects.
However, the annual provision of funds by the Government would be higher
(Table 7.5).
3.10      The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent would finance
50% of project cost or the estimated foreign exchange component pls 35% of
local cos ts.  This is in line with recent Bank participation in social
sector projects in Mexico, and is justified by the extensive expenditure in
local currency, the training and technical assistance and pilot nature of
the project. BANOBRAS would as a condition of effectiveness, enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Government
providing for the transfer of funds to FORTAMUN and repayment of the loan
by the Government.  The Government would provide the required counterpart
funds through annual budgetary allocations to FORTAMUN.  For sub-project
investments, municipalities would contribute the equivalent of US$12.2
million from their revenues.  Part of the loan proceeds (US$9.5  million)
would be channelled by the Government through the project account (para.
3.13), to the agencies implementing the training and technical assistance
components and for project administration (Chart 2.3  of Annex 2).  The
remaining balance (US$30.5 million) would provide initial capital to the
MDF to provide subloans and grants for subprojects to be implemented by
municipalities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.23). Principal and interest payments on subloans would be deposited iu
the MD? and further onlent to municipalities under the same terms and
conditions.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.11      Mexico's construction industry is highly developed and capable of
executing works at costs competitive with international bidders and none of
the individual contracts would be large enough to attract foreign bidders.
Therefore, most construction contracts would be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, which would



- 13 -
allow participation by foreign contractors.  Civil works contracts estim-
ated to cost less than US$100,000 and up to an aggregate of US$8.0 million
would be contracted directly on the basis of at least three quotations.
Works not exceeding in the aggregate US$5.0 million would be executed on
the basis of force account procedures. This large amount of force account
is required because of the large number of small works to be executed by
municipalities, many of which have established work forces capable of
carrying out works in the most economic and efficient manner. Most ecidip-
ment and materials for subprojects, as well as for the training and insti-
tutional strengthening components would be procured under LCB procedures.
ICB procedures would be followed when the estimated cost of a single
package exceeds US$250,000. Equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than US$75,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate limit of US$7.0 million
would be contracted directly through prudent local shopping on the basis of
at least three quotations. Consultants' services for studies, training and
technical assistance would be obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Because of the large number of small individual contracts, the Bank would
review all awards on an ex-post basis. Prior Bank review would be required
for contracts procured under ICB.
3.12       Disbursements would be made to cover:  50% of expenditures for
training, (including fellowships and travel and subsistence cost of
trainers), equipment and material for training, consultants' services and
project administration and 100Z of amounts disbursed for civil works,
materials and equipment under approved subloans and grants up to 50% of the
subproject cost. All disbursements in respect of expenditures under sub-
loans, training and project administration would be made against certified
Statements of Expenditures.   Supporting documentation for these expendi-
tures would be retained in BANOBRAS, and made available for periodic review
by Bank supervision missions.   Retroactive financing in an amount not
exceeding US$0.6 million equivalent would be provided for expenditures for
preparation of promotional and training materials, and technical assistance
incurred on or after September 1,  1985.   To accelerate disbursements,
BANOBRAS would establish and maintain under its control, a Special Account,
with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million, which would be operated in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.   A 9-year
disbursement schedule is shown in table 7.4 of Annex 7.
Accounts and Auditing
3.13      Beneficiary municipalities would be required to maintain detailed
subproject accounts which would be audited annually by auditors acceptable
to BANOBRAS.  The audit reports would be made available to the Bank for
review upon request.   BANOBRAS would when necessary, provide technical
assistance to municipalities to assist in establishing an information base
and  accounting  system  as  a  condition  of  granting  subloans.    Other
implementing agencies would be responsible for maintaining separate project
accounts which would be forwarded to the TS for consolidation into a single
project account.   BANOBRAS would open and maintain a separate project
account to reflect all project expenditures, including a separate
sub-account to reflect all transactions under the MDF.  The consolidated
project account including the MDF would be audited annually by independent



- 14 -
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the auditors' reports would be
forwarded to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year.   The Special Account would be audited by BANOBRAS'  independent
auditors and their report would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
Project Execution
3.14          Project Organization and Management.   A Steering Committee
(Comite Directivo), headed by the the Undersecretary of SHCP, and consist-
ing of senior officials of SG, SPP, SEDUE and BANOBRAS would be appointed,
to deal with overall policy matters.   The TS, would centralize overall
project management and would be responsible for coordinating, programming,
managing and performance monitoring functions, including administering
project finances. The TS, headed by an experienced administrator, would be
supported Ly a number of staff trained in finance, programming, and
administrative  skills.    The TS  Director would  function as ex-officio
Secretary to the Steering Committee.
3.15       The TSU would be established, under the coordination of the TS,
to coordinate, plan, program and promote the training and technical assist-
ance components (paras. 3.05 and 3.06). The TSU would form the nucleus of
a central national coordination centre for municipal training programs and
would be staffed by representatives of SHCP, SPP, SG, SEDUE and BANOBRAS,
assisted by training experts, as required.  The Government has provided
assurances that the TS and the TSU would be staffed at all times with
qualified  and experienced technical and administrative personnel.   The
training components would be implemented by SHCP, SPP, SG, SEDUE and
BANOBRAS and their subsidiary Training Units (INDETEC, INCAFI, CNEM, and
CEDADEM) assisted, as necessary, by external training institutions.
3.16       The State Development and Planning Committees (COPLADES) would
participate actively in the promotion of the program.  Subproject invest-
ments would be implemented by municipalities who would plan and execute
their program with the assistance of SEDUE and consultants, when neces-
sary. BANOBRAS would be responsible for the appraisal of municipal subpro-
jects, for all credit operations and monitoring and evaluation.
3.17       Selection criteria have been agreed and are incorporated in the
Operating Guidelines. Priority for states selected take into account dates
of changes in administration and the recent earthquake (Annex 3.2).
Because of its pilot nature, priority will be given to those municipalities
in each state that are likely to benefit quickly from the project and
therefore serve as in-state demonstrative examples.  Participation in the
MDF or the training component would be on a self-selection basis. For the
MDF specific criteria will include:   (a) willingness to follow procedures
set out in the Operating Guidelines (para. 3.04); (b) willingness to accept
terms and conditions specified in subloan agreements (para. 3.23); and (c)
compulsory  participation  in the  training  component  (Annex 3.3).   For
participation in the training component, the municipality must comply with
the procedures set out in the Operatirg Guidelines.



- 15 -
3.18       Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project, which represents
a first pilot phase of the Government's program, would be implemented over
a nine-year period in accordance with the sector profile.   All training
under the project would be fully implemented by December 1990. The imple-
mentation period of subprojects is estimated to average 11 months for the
most complex subprojects. Loan funds under FORTAMUN would be committed by
October 31, 1993.  After allowing for the completion of final subprojects,
the project would be completed by June 30, 1994 and the closing date would
be December 31, 1994.
3.19         Monitoring and Reporting Requirements.   Because of the pilot
nature of the project, emphasis has been placed upon strengthening the
capacity for monitoring and evaluation at the municipal, state and federal
levels.   The monitoring system for FORTAMUN would be detailed  in  the
Operating Guidelines.   The reporting system would have separate modules
which  would  monitor:    (a)  activities  relating  to  subloan  requests,
authorization, formalization, actual investment and cost recovery; (b) an
inventory of municipal needs in the areas of financial management,
institutional strengthening, and training; and {c) a register of training
and funding programs to be implemented after the technical evaluation of
each municipality (Annex 4).   The TS would be responsible for monitoring
and evaluation on the basis of quarterly progress reports prepared by
municipalities  and  implementing  agencies.         Quarterly  Implementation
Summaries would be forwarded to the Steering Committee and to the Bank.
The TS would forward an annual evaluation of progress in meeting financial,
economic, technical and institutional objectives to the Bank not later than
March 31 of each year.
Local Finances and Cost Recovery
3.20       Through the institutional strengthening and training components,
the project would significantly increase the capacity for resource mobiliz-
ation at the municipal level, both by increasing local revenues through
property taxes or general revenues and user charges, as well as by reducing
expenditures through improved administration and maintenance. Capital and
recurrent costs for improvements in roads, sidewalks, drainage, parks and
recreation areas, and residential solid waste connections would be recov-
ered through general surcharges levied on beneficiaries.   User charges
would be applied to recover debt service and operation and maintenance
costs for revenue earning services such as water supply and sewerage,
commercial solid waste infrastructure, utility network expansion, mnicipal
vehicle and equipment maintenance workshops and cemeteries. Rents and fees
would cover capital and recurrent costs of revenue earning investments such
as markets, slaughterhouses, public transport terminals and equipment and
vehicles. No change in existing laws or policies is required to implement
cost recovery. Implementation of satisfactory cost recovery measures under
proposed subprojects would be reviewed by BANOBRAS in the context of
overall municipal finances during appraisal of individual subprojects.
Subloan agreements would require full cost recovery of subproject invest-
ments, with state and municipal governments determining specific mixes of
user charges and general tax revenues.



- 16 -
Onlending Terms and Procedures
3.21       Appraisal of Sub-borrower.  Appraisal of individual subprojects
would follow a two-step procedure - appraisal of the municipalities and
then of specific subprojects.   BANOBRAS would, on the basis of standard
information supplied by municipalities and compiled in the monitoring sys-
tem, appraise the overall financial, technical and institutional capacity
of individual municipalities.   On the basis of this general assessment,
training and technical assistance requirements, as well as financial per-
formance targets, cost recovery measures and borrowing ceilings would be
agreed with the municipality as a precondition for borrowing from the MDF
(Annex 5.2).
3.22         Subproject Appraisal.   BANOBRAS would, as necessary,  assist
municipalities in preparing the technical, financial, economic and legal
subproject information (Annex 5.3).   Model technical design criteria and
standards have been prepared by SEDUE and are incorporated in the Operating
Guidelines. Economic rates of return would be prepared for all subprojects
costing more than US$200,000 equivalent.   Once a subproject has been
approved by the Division of FOMENTO (Operations) in BMNOBRAS, a subloan
agreement would be signed between the municipality and BANOBRAS. Individ-
ual subprojects with an estimated total cost exceeding the equivalent of
US$500,000 would be forwarded to the Bank for approval. Subproject docu-
mentation for works in the two pilot cities (Annex 1.2) would include: (a)
an institutional and financial appraisal of the Sub-borrower carried out in
accordance with Pro Forma A of the Operating Guidelines; (b) the detailed
capital investment plan in respect of the Decentralization Program for the
municipality; (c) a financing plan; (d) a study of the impact of investment
on the municipality's revenues; (e) institutional responsibilities for
Lmplementation of complementary investments by federal and state agencies,
and (f) details of subprojects for financing, in accordance with format as
in Pro Forma B of the Operating Guidelines.
3.23       Subloan  Ageents.  Subloans would be approved by the Steering
Committee (para. 3.14).  A traf t model subloan agreement has been reviewed
by the Bank and is incorporated in the Operating Guidelines (Annex 5.5).
Subloans would be made to cover at mDst 80% of subproject costs, at
interest rates specified in the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA), and
according to the following terms:   (a) roads, sidewalks, drainage, parks
and recreation areas - 5 years, including one year of grace; (b) water
supply and sewerage, solid waste infrastructure, municipal vehicle and
equipment maintenance workshops - 15 years, including four years of grace
or the end of construction, whichever is shorter; (c) municipal markets,
slaughterhouses, public transport terminals and equipment - 10 years,
including three years of grace or end of construction, if shorter; and (d)
solid waste equipment and vehicles, and microcomputers and equipment - 5
years without a grace period.
3.24      GIRA is a master agreement, signed between Mexico and the Bank on
August 7, 1984, which covers Interest rates in individual loans for credit
progras.   It provides for the linking of interest rates to a central
reference rate (an index of average cost of funds to multi-purpose banks -
ACF), a systematic accounting of subsidies, a gradual phasing out of



- 17 -
remaining subsidies for most beneficiary categories, periodic adjustment of
rates and a reduction in the dispersion of interest rates.  As GIRA does
not at present include a category for interest rates in respect of munici-
pal infrastructure lending, the Government has agreed to an amendment to
the GIRA providing for the inclusion of such category with the following
target rates: 68Z of ACF as of January 1, 1986, and 80% of ACF for January
1, 1987 onwards. The effectiveness of this amendment to the GIRA would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.25       Matching Grants.  In order to induce municipalities (which had
previously been accustomed to receive straight grants) to rely on credit
for financing infrastructure investments, and to rechannel some current
Gove-nment budgetary support to municipalities into a coordinated effort
with credit funds,  a formula of matching grants is proposed.   For the
purposes of establishing the proportion of matching grants, municipalities
have been classified into five categories according to the following
criteria: (i) size; (ii) deficiencies in provision of basic services;
(iii) priority in the National Development Plan; and (iv) current reve-
nues.   Municipalities  in categories  one  (most developed) through five
(least developed) -would be eligible for 0%, 5%, 10%, 25% and 30Z grant (as
a percentage of total financing), respectively.   BANOBRAS has provided
assurances that, in any given calendar year, the amount of grant funds dis-
bursed from the MDF shall cot exceed 16% of total funds disbursed from the
MDF in respect of subproject investments.  BANOBRAS has further agreed to
review the matching grant formula not later than March 31, 1988 and to
exchange views with the Bank on the results of such review. A review of
municipal finance in Mexico, a review of BANOBRAS' finances, activities and
future operations, and a discussion on FORTAMJN, and the impact on the MDF
of the proposed matching grants is attached in Annexes 6.1 to 6.3.
Justification and Benefits
3.26         The principal benefit of the proposed project would be the
improved policy and financial environment for municipal development which
would be necessary for the implementation of the Government's decentraliza-
tion program. Rationalization of BANOBRAS' policies, practices and proce-
dures for provision of municipal credit, reinforcement of federal and state
agencies' capacity to provide technical assistance to mnicipalities, and
training programs would introduce a more rational planning and investment
process, stimulate local resource generation and cost control measures and
provide a reliable source of long-term financing for municipal develop-
ment. The improvement of operational and financial management policies and
rationalization of grant financing for municipal services would lead to
reduced demands on the national budget through greater local resource
mobilization.  In addition to significant health and social benefits, the
project would have a positive environmental impact in subproject municipal-
ities. Economic rates of return (ERR) for similar investments financed by
BANOBRAS have ranged from 11% to 30%, with an average of 16%.   It is
expected that subproject investments under the proposed project would yield
at least comparable returns, particularly in light of lover cost technical
solutions which will be incorporated in subloan agreements. ERRs would be



- 18 -
calculated for all subprojects exceeding the equivalent of US$200,000. On
the basis of a sample of municipalities selected by the Government for
implementation in the first phase of the program, it is anticipated that
about 90% of project costs under municipal strengthening components would
finance investments in about 340 municipalities with a population of about
7 million of which 1.7 million or 25% are estimated to be within the
poverty group.
Project Risks
3.27        The major project risks are: (a) the inherent difficulties in
coordination; (b) the capacity and willingness of BANOBRAS to make appro-
priate changes; and (c) the possible loss of political momentum. The esta-
blishment of an independent Technical Secretariat and Training Support
Unit, and the definition of clear roles, responsibilities and procedures in
the Operating Guidelines, would reduce difficulties in coordination.
Previous urban and water supply lending operations have been partially
constrained by problems within BANOBRAS.  However, the project addresses
these issues. BANOBRAS' coordination of the project preparation effort and
the degree and rapidity with which changes in policy have been processed
have been exemplary and indicate the management's and SHCP's commitment to
change.  Finally, the Government would be encouraged to accelerate imple-
mentation within the first five years to obtain a quick feedback, and also
benefit from the mDmentum set in place by the present Administration.
PART IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During Negotiations:  Assurances were obtained from GOM that:
(a)   BANOBRAS  would  undertake  to  implement  administrative  and
operational measures at the regional and state levels as required
for the efficient  and  timely  implementation of the project,
including mechanisms for the promotion of FORTAMUN and for the
provision   of   financial   services   required   by   eligible
municipalities  in  connection  with  the  execution  of  the
subprojects (para. 2.09);
(b)   BANOBRAS will follow policies and procedures as outlined in the
Operating Guidelines, and would not make any  changes in the
Guidelines  which  would  materially  or  adversely  affect  the
carrying out of the project (para. 3.04);
(c)  A Municipal Development  Fund  (MDF) would  be  established  to
provide subloans and grants for subprojects to be implemented by
municipalities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Principal and interest payments on subloans would be deposited in
the MDF and further onlent to municipalities for the purposes of
expanding FORTAMUN (para. 3.10).



- 19 -
(d)   In any given calendar year, the amount of grant funds disbursed
from the MDF would not exceed 16Z of total funds disbursed from
the MDF  in respect of subproject investments.   BANOBRAS has
further agreed to review the matching grant formula not later
than March 31, 1988 and to exchange views with the Bank on the
results of such review (para. 3.25).
4.02      As a Condition of Effectiveness:
(a)   The Government and BANOBRAS shall have entered into the Mandate
Agreement on terms acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.04);
(b)   The  Operating  Guidelines  shall  have  been  approved  by  the
Government  (Guarantor)  and  BANOBRAS   (Borrower)  on   terms
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.04);
(c)   BANOBRAS would enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with the Government providing for the transfer of
funds to FORTAMUN and repayment of the loan by the Government
(para. 3.10).
(d)  The General Interest Rate  Agreement  (GIRA) shall have  been
amended so as to cover interest rates applicable to subloans as
defined in the Project Agreement for the proposed project, and
that such amendment is in full force and effect (para. 3.24).
4.03      Based on the agreements reached on the above,  the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$40.0 million.



- 20 -
AN1
MEXICO
NUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Detailed Component Features
Munlcipal Staff Developrent and Management Strengthening
Federal and State Staff Development and Instituticnal Strengthening
Table of Contents
Paragraph
1.  Background and Selected Issues .................... . .    1-3
2.  Training Objectives .4.............................
3.  Training Strategy         5.............................   5
4.  Municipal Staff Development and Management
Strengthening  ................ e.................         8-10
5. Federal and State Staff Development and
Institutional Strengthening         ......................  11-12
6.  Project Target Groups          ............................  13-15
7.  Estimate of Costs         ........    ........................  16-17
8.  Implementation of Training Programs ..... .........       18-20
9.  Special Ongoing and Recurrent Activities    .........      21
List of Tahles and Attachments:
Attachments:                                                          Page No.
1.1  Principal Training Theues         .......................  31
1.2  Municipal Officials - Estimated Totals ..e .......        34
1.3 Projected Training Events and Participants
(municipalities) gee        .............................  36
1.4  Projected Training Events and Partipants
(Federal and State Level Staff) .................         37
1.5 Aggregated Cost/Participant/Day for Recurrent
Costs .ce...............e.....                            38
1.6 Institutional Responsibilities for Training by
Themes e.ee..ee..eee....e.cgegeeeeee..e......e....        39



- 21 -
ARMUE 1.1
Page 1 of 10
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTPENING PROJECT
Human Resources Development and Organizational Strengthening.
at Municipal, State and Federal Levels
Background
1.                Under  the  Government's  decentralization  program,  the
municipalities   have  been  given  increased  responsibilities   (paras.
2.04-2.07). The administrative, financial and managerial capabilities of
the municipalities, however, vary substantially with only about 100 of the
large municipalities capable of undertaking their legal responsibilities.
The absence of both qualified technical staff, and adequate access to
technical assistance and training, result in slow Implementation of
projects and overall inefficiency in the provislon, operation, and
maintenance of basic urban services.
2.        At the federal and state level, various government agencies will
be involved in overseeing policy, and providing technical assistance to the
municipalities, (paras. 2.08-2.10).  They have been instructed to create
special internal units which will provide technical and financial
assistance and training to the municipalities. Developing a framework for
coordinating the activities of these units, training their staff to provide
the necessary outreach and support, and strengthening municipal management
through intensive training programs, in order to improve the provision of
basic municipal services is essential for the success of the government's
decentralization program.
3.         A number of issues in the development of human resources in the
sector have been identified:
a)  Poliy Issues.  No clear policy or objectives have been adopted
by federal, state or municipal authorities for the training of
their respective staff.    Thus  no  coordination exists  at an
appropriately high level, of the objectives and efforts of the
various agencies involved in training, resulting in an informal
won the Job' or ad-hoc approach to training.
b)  Institutional and Financial.   Responsibility for improving the
performance of municipal officials has not previously been
institutionally defined, leading to ambiguity on the roles and
responsibilities, and often unnecessary duplication of effort and
resources. Training needs at the municipal staff level have not
been generally identified in a manner that relates training to
staff's operational requirements  or the staff's trainability.
There is also at this time, inadequate knowledge of personnel
administration and training.   In the absence of a centralized
coordination mechanism, there is a mismatch between training
programs available and training required, and no formalized
meansof bringing this information to the attention of appropriate
officials or potential trainees.   No agency of the federal or
state government is equipped to assess overall staff development
requirements,  to  evaluate  the  usefulness  of  any  training



- 22 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 2 of 10
undertaken, to carry out appropriate "tracer' studies, or to
suggest modifications to course curricula. In addition to these
problems,   all  agencies  have  suffered  financial  cutbacks,
consequently there is little attempt to aggresively promote
training or to disseminate available information on training
opportunities,  etc.   The municipalities do not have separate
training budgets.
c)  Technical.   There is the need to consolidate the number and
diversity of available courses and make them more relevant to the
demands of the municipalities.   This implies a qualitative and
quantitative  improvement.   The level of pedagogic skills and
techniques differ considerably within agencies, as do the modes
of delivery; there is a need to develop and upgrade training
agencies with -state of the art' techniques and facilities. Most
of all there is a need to concentrate on a structured program for
the training of trainers, as adequate assistance and proper
supervision is lacking, as is the availability of equipment and
teaching materials.
Training Objectives
4.         Inspite of the problems listed, the existing programs in Mexico,
do provide an adequate basis of experience and facilities, for developing
an accelerated national training program to meet municipal needs under the
proposed project. The GOM's long-term objective, is to build a permanent
training capability in the sector.  Specific objectives under the project
include:
a) Introduction of planning and integration, of existing and
proposed training activities of federal and state agencies.
b) Development of a more accurate and systematic definition of
municipal training requirements as locally perceived, and
determined in the light of operational needs.
c)   Implementation of appropriately designed training programs for
selected mwnicipal officials.
d) Development of a mechanism for coordinated inter-secretarial and
state  follow-up  and  evaluation  leading  to  improvements  in
training design and delivery.
e) Equipping municipal officials with the skills required to assign
financial resources for municipal development including project
identification and preparation; credit management; and improved
financial management and administration.
f) Equipping federal and state officials with the skills to plan and
impart training under the municipal staff development program,
and to provide appropriate supporting services.
5.         Training StrategX.  These objectives will be acnieved through a)
for municifpalstarf:  setting up  a  central  coordinating  institutional



-23 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 3 of 10
mechanism for the development, financing, administration, delivery, and
evaluation of training; and b) for federal and state staff: provision of
substantial technical assistance and training, to enable their coordinated
and appropriate responses to the needs of the municipalities.
6.           The need for some institutional coordination is critical to
facilitate a technical and operational exchange of experiences, such as:
the training of instructors, development of programs, preparation of
teaching and learning materials (including audio-visual aids) etc..   At
this time no single institution can automatically assume this coordinating
role.   Hence the evolution of the proposal for a Training Support Unit
(TSU) to the Technical Secretariat (TS), as described in paras. 14 to 16.
It is envisaged that the TSU will form the nucleus of a central national
coordination centre for municipal training programs. Its eventual possible
relocation from BANOBRAS, within the organization of training agencies,
will be decided through experience under this project.
7.        The central training coordinating agency's role would be:
a) to compile an inventory of training facilities in each state;
b) to identify and evaluate existing programs capable of improvement
and extension;
c) to promote integration of the various municipal training
activities of Secretariats, Agencies and Institutions;
d) to establish a sound and permanent form of finance for training;
e) to allocate necessary resources and support for training of
instructors, and for staff development; and,
f) to insure the active commitment of all agencies (especially of
municipalities through their cooperation), in the assessment of
training needs, program design, selection of participants and
evaluation of results;
Detailed Description of Training Components.
8.          Municipal Staff Development and Management Strengthening: This
component will consist of:   Training of Municipel Staff,  Training of
Trainers, Technical Assistance, Equipment and Teaching Materials, in a
coordinated program to ;pgrade the administrative and financial capacity of
municipalities. Training under the proposed project will utilize existing
facilities and courses and curricula to the extent possible. This will be
focussed at three levels of staff in particular:  (i) senior officials of
incoming municipal administrations (14,320 persons), who require require a
quick, but structured orientation, or reorientation of the government's
program priorities for municipal reform, to enable them to become
immediately effective, instead of the current 'learning-on-the-job-
approach; (ii) mid-level officials (4,940 persons) who are not subject to
the same degree of mobility, and are thus responsible for the continuity of
operation of services and programs; and (iii) Training of Trainers (about
270 persons), these are municipal staff who already are involved or will
be, in training.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 4 of 10
9.               Following  two separatel/  surveys,  and discussions with
experienced municipal officials, and training specialists of existing
agencies, the project preparation team have listed material covered in
about 60 courses (nearly 20% of available number) into 6 training themes:
Program Priorities, Financial Management, Credit Management, Municipal
Administration,  Legal  Aspects,  and  Technical  Services.         These  are
considered  adequate  to  initiate the program.    Training for mid-level
officials will focus on specific skill training such as improving
cadastres, accounting, inventory control, pricing of services, programming,
project formulation, economic evaluation and project appraisal, and,
operation and maintenance. Additional appropriate training materials would
be developed under the project.
10.           This project component will finance:   (i) the training of
municipal staff (cost e- courses and attendance expenses including travel
and subsistence); (ii) the training of trainers (costs of courses, travel
and subsistence); (iii) equipment and teaching materials (upgrading through
replacement and additior. of existing printing and video production/replay
facilities, audio visual and other training materials and equipment); and
(iv) technical assistance and fellowships (a) to assist municipalities
implement improved financial and administrative management systems; (b) for
strengthening training agencies by contracting with national or foreign
institutions for specialist staff; (c) program planning and evaluation, and
(d) fellowships for study visits to assist in technical and pedagogic
aspects of curriculum development, implementation of training courses and
operational systems.
II.       Federal   and   State   Staff   Development,   and   Inatitutional
Strengthening:  This component will consist of:  (i) training of staff of
ederal   and  state   agencies   providing   outreach   support   to   the
municipalities.    (SG,  SHCP,  SPP,  SEDUE,  and BANOBRAS,  their regional
branches, relevant state-level agencies and training subsidiaries) (ii)
Training of Trainers; (iii) Studies for formulating future policy and
strengthening of relevant information systems in SHCP, SPP and SEDUE: ((a)
the SG assisted by the Training Support Unit (para. 20) is to set up an
information and data system, to study the characteristics of municipal
manpower and complete an assessment of training needs, as a prerequisite to
formulating a National Training Policy in the future); and (iv) Technical
Assistance and Fellowships, Equipment and Materials.
12.        This project component will finance (i) Training of Federal and
State Officials (cost of courses and attendance expenses, including travel
and subsistence); (ii) Training of Trainers (cost of courses, travel and
subsistence); (iii) Cost of undertaking the above mentioned studies and
strengthening of relevant information systems in SHCP, SPP and SEDUE; (iv)
related technical assistance, fellowships, equipF2ent and materials.
1/   A questionnaire re-oriented survey of 81 municipallties by SPP, in
September 1984; and an interview-oriented one in 14 municipalities (May
1985) by the project preparation team.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 5 of 10
Project Target Groups
13.         Of the estimated total of about 660,000 municipal staff and
officials in Mexico2/, the project target group consists of 64,000 senior
and middle level offncials. Of these, only 3% or nearly 19,520 (including
instructors) will receive training under the project. Of the most senior
elected officials, 14,320 or about 54% of the national total will take part
in two-day seminars of 80 participants, focused cn program priorities
(issues to be addressed under the municipal reform program, improving
public  participation,  and  strengthening  of  municipal  management  and
development). About 5,200 middle-level officials will take part in 5-day
long (average) training courses in groups of 20. Table 1.2 shows a) the
estimated total of municipal officials in Mexico; b) the estimated number
in the first group of 8 selected states, and c) the planned training
coverage in 1986 by theme and category.   Table 1.3 shows the total of
municipal staff training events proposed under the project, and estimated
total participants (1986-90) by training theme.
14.          To keep the initial project manageable, training of police
officials,  technical  and  clerical  staff,  supervisors  and  operative
personnel of technical services programs, will take place under special
programs (SP) outside the scope of the project, and through existing
facilities already catering for such groups.
15.         Training will be given to 2,680 federal and state officials
including instructors, from 1986 to 1990. They will participate in groups
of 20 each in 134 training events focused on aforementioned themes.
Programs will be organized within each participating agencies, and
additional opportunities will be provided to study Mexican and foreign
training institutions, and to undertake short study trips overseas. (Table
1.4 shows the total of training events and participants (1986-90)).
Estimates of Costs
16.        Costs for the Trainir.g and Technical Assistance components for
municipal,  federal and state staff, are based on an analysis of actual
recent expenditures by eiach of the relevant agencies, and on estimates
provided by the agencies during appraisal.   A detailed cost estimate is
shown on Table 7.1. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed for
course materials and equipment. Price contingencies are included at 7% for
1986 and 87, 7.5% for 88, 7.7% for 89, 7.6 for 1990 and thereafter at
4.5%. Base costs are expressed in December 85 prices.
17.       Estimates are based on the following:
a) Municipal Training and Technical Assistance
(i)  Recurrent  expenditure:   19,520  participants   (including
training of trainers)   US$80 per day.   (Table 1.5).   This
includes up to 14,320 participants on 2-day programs; and
about 5,200 participants on 5-day programs; for a total cost
of US$4,371,000.
2/ Mission estimate based on national total of 2,379 municipalities and
surveys of selected municipalities during project preparation.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 6 of 10
(ii) Technical and Promotional Activities
Initially, the equivalent of 25 full time professional staff
of the 5 participating agencies will be assigned to the
project.  Duties3/ attributable to the project will decline
commencing 1988:
US$ 000's
1986  25 man/yrs at US$ 7,360                     184
1987  25    -         -                           184
1988  20              -                           148
1989  15    "                                      111
1990  10                                           74
TOTAL              US$70
(iii) The cost of preparing and publishing basic material for about
66 courses is estimated at US$1,008 per course or a total
equivalent of US$71,000.  Recurrent material for 439 course
offerings during the project will cost US$556 per course or a
total equivalent of US$244,000.
(iv) Equipment:   The sum  of US$1,479,000  covers audio-visual
equipment, video film making equipment, monitors, and
miscellaneous training equipment  and materials.   Detailed
requirements will be submitted  for Bank review prior to
procurement. Estimated total costs are as follows:
Estimated cost of Equipment Required a/
US$ 000-
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990      TOTAL
BANOBRAS/CEDADEM              57        -         -        -         -         57
SEDUE                        108        95        92       -         -         295
SG                           130        93       168       -         -         391
SPP                           72        72        -        -         -         144
SHCP (INCAFI)                592        -         -        -         -         592
959       260      260        -        -        1,479
a/ Estimates supplied by each Secretariat/Agency
3/    Staff  duties  will  include  collaboration  with  the  TSU  in  the:
identification of training needs; preparation of training materials;
promotion of the municipal reform program among municipal, state and
federal officials, follow-up and evaluation of training activities and
technical assistance to the municipal development program; updating
training programs following evaluation.  Staff would also participate
in the formulation of future municipal training programs.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 7 of 10
b) Federal and State level Training
(i) Recurrent Expenditure: About 2,680 participants (includiLng -
5% of trainers) @ US$80 per day, based on 5-day programs.
(Table 1.5), for a total of US$1,051,000.
(ii) Technical Assistance and Training: Services of locally based
consultants have been estimated within a range or US$1,500 to
US$7,0004/ per staff month, or approximately 200 staff
months ror a budget of US$444,000.   26 foreign consultant
staff months @ US$8,500 will be available to assist in
educational planning and program evaluation at a total
estimated cost of US$221,000.
(iii) Fellowships for study tours for federal and state officials
will be financed.  These will include studie_ at universities
and institutes in Mexico and visits to training institutions
and municipal development programs in other countries on the
following basis:
Work/Months
NATIONAL                   INTERNATIONAL
1986              48                              12
1987              60                              12
1988              60                               8
168                             32
at US$1 000                     at US$4,500
USS168,000                     US.51449000
(iv) Studies  and  Information  Systems:    A  budget  figure  of
US$312,000 has been included for specific studies and for
strengthening information systems in SG, SHCP, SPP and
SEDUE.
(v) Equipment and Teaching Materials.   The sum of US$202,000
covers  miscellaneous   audio-visual  and  other   training
equipment including up to 10 micro-computers for use by
BANOBRAS in analyzing municipal finances and demonstrating
use thereof to municipal staff.   Micro-computers will be
financed for use exclusively with programming and related
project use by each of the key agencies, and for use of the
TS and TSU. Detailed requirements will be submitted for Bank
review prior to initiating procurement.
18.              Implementation  of Training Programs.    Overall  project
organization, management and implementation is described in paragraphs 3.17
to 3.22.  At the policy level the Comite Directivo (Steering Committee)
will  be  headed  by  the Under  Secretary,  SHCP.    The Director  of  an
independent Technical Secretariat (TS) will be ex-officio Secretary to the
Steering Committee and be responsible for overall project coordination,
assisted specifically by a Training Support Unit (TSU) for the planning and
coordination of the training program (para. 20).
4/ To eliminate discrimination between local and foreign consultants doing
the same job.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 8 of 10
19.         The Training component would be implemented by SG, SHCP, SPP,
SEDUE and BANOBRAS and their subsidiary training units (INDETEC, INCAFI,
CEF, CECADE, CNEM, SEDUE and CEDADEM (see Attachment 1.6). Each of these
already have developed subject specialization that reflect broadly the
respective roles and responsibilities of their parent Secretariats.  Some
as in the case of SEDUE are currently fragmented and would benefit from a
consolidation   of  the   various   training   sub-units  specializing   In
sub-sectors.  During negotiations SEDUE submitted a satisfactory plan and
timetable for consolidating its various training sub-unlts. Other private
and seai-government training Institutions (INAP, IPADE, UNAM, and others)
will, on the recomnendation of the Steering Comittee, assist government
agencies in the delivery of training.
20.       A Training Support Unit (TSU) has been formally established.  It
is coordinated by, and reports to the Steering Committee through the
Technical Secretariat (TS).  The TSU will coordinate, plan, program and
promote the Training and Technical Assistance components. The TSU will be
staffed by a core of key full-tlme staff, who would collaborate witb the
representatives assigned from the key participating Secretariat. and
BANOBRAS. Staff of the TSU and the TS would he selected and appointed by a
consensus of participating agencies.   The TSU will also be assisted by
specialist professionals capable of providing a complete range of technlcal
and operational support (training instructors, programming, learning
material  production,  etc.).    The  modus-operandi  for  implementing  the
Training and Technical Assistance components in parallel with the
Investment component has been outlined in the Activity List in Annex 5.1.
Promotion and launching of the project in each state will be undertaken by
a  number  of  especially  constituted  and  trained  teams.    The  State
Development and Planning Committee (COPLADES) will participate actively in
the promotion of the program.
Special On-going and Recurrent Activities
21.       The TSU will coordinate the following:
a)  Development  of  each  state's  training  program.           Starting
immediately, the TSU will formulate a draft course program for
the first year for each of the eight states selected to
participate during the first year of project implementation. The
draft program for each state will result from discussions between
the governor, state and municipal officials and members of the
TSU.   It will be formally  approved  by  the  Governor and  the
Steering Committee.  In 1986 it will mainly consist of existing
courses adapted  to  project requirements.   Program  content in
subsequent years will reflect municipal requirements indicated by
the response to particular courses during previous years.
b)  Development of Each Agency's Outline 3-Year Plan.  The Steering
Committee will assign responsibility for agreed training themes
and course titles between participating agencies.  The TSU will
assist each agency to prepare an outline draft 3-year Training
Plan to reflect anticipated project needs, against which each
state's specific requirements will be matched. The plan will be
adjusted every six months accordingly.  Each agency will ident.fy
detailed staff, equipment and other requirements (e.g. assistance
by non-governmental agencies) to implement its program, and will



- 29 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 9 of 10
submit its proposals for discussion at the TSU prior to formal
submission (thru the TS), to the Steering Committee.
c) Development and Initiation of Federal and State Staff Training
Program   Each agency will prepare witb assistance from the TSU
as necessary, its Staff Training Plan for Year 1, and every year
thereafter, and related proposals for consideration by the
Steering Committee for financing under the project.   Proposals
will reflect the agreed projlect responsibilities of each agency.
d)  Preparation of Job Descriptions and Assignment of Staff.   Each
agency will submit  to the Steering Committee a list of the
functions of existing staff to he assigned full time under the
project and to he paid from project funds.  On approval of the
proposals, participating staff will be formally designated and
will work in collaboration with the TSU.
e)  Preparation of Equipment Lists.   Each  agency  should  prepare
detailed equipment lists to match their draft Training Plan for
submission by the TSU to the Steering Committee and Bank prior
review.
f)  Consultant Terms of Reference.  Each agency should prepare the
Terms of Reference  (TORs) for national and for international
consultants required for its agency during 1986 and subsequently
for later years. These TORs will be reviewed and coordinated by
the TSU who will assist In ensuring their consistency with the
objectives of the program,  specific identification of  tasks,
and measurable  indicators  for each  TOR.   The TORs will he
approved by the Steering Committee.
g)  Study Programs. Each agency will prepare a 3-year draft training
plan and program for its training staff and other key staff
who  will undertake  study  trips.    The  operating  rules  and
regulations  for  staff  undertaking  study  programs  should  be
approved by the Steering Committee, based on recommendations of
the TSU.
b) Development of Key Indicators of Project Effectiveness. The TSU
will,  as  part  of  prolect  evaluation,  develop  a  series  of
measurable indicators to evaluate the numerical and qualitative
impact of the program. Indicators will Include:
-  Number of institutions participating In prolect;
- No. of participants in training programs;
- Unit Cost (USS cost/participant/day of training)
- Rate of disbursement of project funds;
-  No. of consultants or experts participating in program;
- No. of fellowships;
- No. of instructors trained;
- Operational improvements resulting from training programs;
-   No.  of applications for successful applications from the
Infrastructure Investment Fund.
i) Design of a Tracer Stud
Each  agency will  design  appropriate tracer studies  to track



- 30 -
ANNEX 1. 1
Page 10 of 10
individual  performance   improvement   and   subsequent   career
development of participants on training programs assisted under
the project.  The TSU will prepare a generic study to follow up
performance and impact of the project, on a consistent basis.
J) Information System for Development of National Training Policy.
The TSU will assist the CNEM in the SG to develop a detailed
3-year program of dat.# collection for the purposes of developing
a  National  Training  Policy.    The  study  will  set  out  the
parameters  and  objectives  for  the  information  system  to
facilitate design of a follow-on project from 1989. It will also
include preparatory studies for the development of a formalized
municipal civil service career structure.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1.1
Table 1.1
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Principal Training Themes
PP:    PROGRAm PRIORITIES
PP.1   Overview of urban management
PP.2   The municipality and community
PP.3 The community role in public services and public works
FM:    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
FM.1   Federal 'Participations" for states and municipalities
FM.2   Costs and Tariffs of public works and services
FM.3   Municipal Accounting
FM.4   Municipal programming and Budgeting
FM.5   Organization and introduction to 'cadastre-
FM.6   Pricing of Municipal Services
FM.7   Practical Municipal Finance
FM.8   Mechanisms for Cost Recovery
FM.9   Federal 'Participations' in financing municipal public works
and services
FM.10 Leasing principles and procedures
FM.11 Municipal Financial Analysis and Forecasting
FM.12 Improving Revenue Collection
FM.13 Financial Appraisal of Projects
CM:    CREDIT MANAGEMENT
CM.1  Municipal financial analysis
CM.2   Use of credit funds
CM.3   Financial appraisal
CM.4   Economic evaluation
CM.5   Credit procedures
CM.6   Procurement
CM.7   Loan processing
CM.8   Pricing policies for municipal services
CM.9   Project evaluation
MA:   MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
MA.1   National, State and Municipal planning system
MA.2   Municipal Administration
MA.3   Municipal Financial Administration
MA.4   Administration of human resources
MA.5   Administrative methods and techniques of Government systems
MA.6   Municipal Records
.4A.7 Administration of municipal services



- 32-                      ANNEX1.1
Table 1.1
Page 2 of 3
NA.8  Project Formulation
MA.9  Administrative Simplification
NA.IO  Planning and Administration of urban development
NA.11  Hanagement control
NA.12  Organizatlonal, human, physical and financial requirements
NA.13  Municipal audit
MA.14  Inventory control
NA.15  Organization and Administratlon of paramunicipal enterprises
LA:   LEGAL ASPECTS
LA.1  Practical municipal law
LA.2  Practical labor law
LA.3  Practical fiscal law
LA.4   Administrative organization of the iunicipality
LA.5  Internal organization of the municipal council
LA.6   Administrative organization
LA.7   Organization of public services
LA.8  Organization of commanity life
LA.9   Municipal financial legislation
TS:   TECHNICAL SERVICES
TS.1  Potable water services
TS.2  Drainage and sewerage services
TS.3  Markets and distribution centers
TS.4   Slaughterhouse facilities
TS.5  Public lighting services
TS.6   Solid waste management
TS.7  Municipal cleansing services
TS.8  Cemeteries, Parks and Gardens
TS.9  Waste water treatment
TS.1O  Control of uanicipal and lndustrial solid waste
TS.11  Streets, sidewalk designs and maIntenance
TS.12  Highway system Maintenance
TS.13  Rural roads and paths
TS.14 Maintenance of municipal public works
TS.15  Architectural projects for mmicipal public works
TS.16  Promotion and financing of housing
TS.17 Land management
TS.18  Operation and Maintenance of Equipment and Vehicles
TS.19 Heavy transport centres
TS.20  Municipal transport services
SP:    SPECIAL PROGRAMS (not included under this Project)
Required for: Directors of Public Security
Chiefs of Police
Llectral registration officers
Nass literacy officials
Library staff
Social workers
Prison staff
Forestry officials



- 33 -
AMX  1.1
Table 1.1
Page 3 of 3
Maintenance officials
Secretaries
Typists
Administratlve assistants
Police officers
Mechanics
Caretakers
Drivers
Water supply plant operetives
Gardeners
Solid waste removal operatives
Security guards
Pensioners



- 34 -
ANN 1.1
Table 1.2
Pme 1 of 2
MM=D
IJCIPAL STRE1WnqNI 1mn=
Ctmt A
Mmicpal Officials: FstandE Totals1/ aM  P1mwd nainin  Coverae I Yea 1
by Prcipal TrahrLif Thu
Tot  Staff           Total to    Principl
First Grop     be TraIted  TraifTd
No.  Titles of posts in the 1Muidpalities       HexiC0   of 8 states2/  in Year I        mms/
1    HNLmcipal President                         2,300        302            302         PP
2    Mayor                                       2,3D0         302           258         PP
3    Cirdiiun                                   16,000      2,718          1,840         PP
4    Secetaxy of the mirnc. go,wrnt              1,800         302           240         IA
5    Ciief clerkshp                              2,000        302            240         MA
6    Tremrer ai/or Deputy Treagurer              2,300         302           240         FM
7     cqptroUler                                   350         60             40        (cm
8     mcmmtmit                                     950         100            40         FM
9    hAlitor                                       400         70             20         FM
10   Prograoidng and Budget Officer              2,500        320             40        FM
11   Officer Civil Pezstrar                      2,500        350             20         TA
12    dijef Urban Dev. mad/or Odief and/or Dep.
Chief Public Services ad Works             2,500         350            40         TS
13   Dixrector Niblic Security ad/or C2ief
of Police                                  4,000        450             -         (SP)
14   Market Mmamr                               2,0000        250             40         cm
15   Sla*terhcuse Naner                         2,000        250             20        ITS
16   Drainae and Seerage Mmer                    1,ROO        2D0             20         t4
17   Qiltaral, Recreation and T auria
activities Ma1ager                           F0D        100             20         IS
18   Director of Regdations                       300          40             20        IA
19   Director of Ometeries                      2,300         300             2)        15
2D   Chief of Madeipal Cleanirt                  1,800        250             2D         TS
21   Permal and/or Private Secetary              1,500        200             -         (SP)
22   Mandcipal Delegate                         12,000      2,000             -         (SP)
23   legal  dvlsor                               1,700        250             40         IA
24   Electoral RePistration Officer              2,500        350             -         (SP)
25   CoordlrAtor ClEAMJN                         1,500       2M0              2D         MA
26   Tremrer' Aide                               5,000        900             8D         FM
27   Colector md/or Fiscal Ament                 6,500      1,100            100         FM
28   Preident -of mmircipal settlements          1,800        200             40         PP
29   Preiddit ef Civil Czmcil                     900         150             20         PP
30     m litera' officials                      11,000      1,800             -         (SP)
~btotal                         84,300      12,668         3,780



- 35 -
AN     1.1
Table 1.2
Pwe 2 of 2
Total Staff           Total to  Principal
PFirst Grup      be Trained  TraiLurg
No.  Titles af posts In the Mncipalities         Memo       of 8 st"e2/    in Yewr I    3m/
31   Libray Staff                                 2,000         300             -          (SP)
32    Social Worker                               4,500         800             -          (SP)
33   Prison Staff                                 4,500         800             -          (SP)
34   Forestry official                            1,000          150            -          (SP)
35   Public LI;AiLg official                      8.50D       1,500             -          (SP)
36   Maintenance and/or Aid official             14,500       2,500             -          (SP)
37    Secretary                                  10,000       1,300             -          (SP)
38   Datlogrpher                                  8,000       1,100             -          (SP)
39    1!ypist                                    12,500       2,200             -          (SP)
40   Adnirdstrative Assistant                     8,500       1,500             -          (SP)
41   Polic  officers                            350,000      45,000             -          (SP)
42   mecaadc  and/or asistat                     20,000       3,500             -          (SP)
43   Caretaker                                    6,000         900             -          (SP)
44    Caretd.er of spor  failities and/or
mmicipal aLiitoritun official               4,00D         700             -          (SP)
45   Driver                                       6,500       1,000             -          (SP)
46   Water supply operativ                        3,500         700             -          (SP)
47   Gardener                                    17,500       3,000             -          (SP)
48    Solid wste rwsval q,ratiws and adoers  65,000          12,000             -          (SP)
49   Semrity g2ard                                8,000       1,400             -          (SP)
50   Plesioners                                  10,500         -               -          (SP)
Subtotal                        576,0OD      82,150             -         (SP)
IUrAL                           660,300      94,818          5,248         -
1/ Estimted baied on national ttal of 2,379 m icipalities aId axvey of selected muixcpaUlties
conduted by gDem tt Officials daring prepration of the project.
2/ EstLted totals for 8 priority states   ected by govmient to comence the progrm in 1986:
Qieretaro, Sonora, Collus, Qianjuato, San  aiis Pbtosi, Tlaxcala, Nuevo Ieon, Catqeahe; with
total of 302   cipaities.
3  Corresp       to c   ifiation:
PP    Progran Priorities           (Prioridaiw  del Progranm)
FM    Finnncial (agedenstron  Finmiciera)
a4   Credit M!gnmez                     inistrscin   de Credito)
MA   Mimicipal AdnIstraticn       (Adninistracion de Hbdcipios)
IA    legal Aspects                (Aslctos Legales)
TS   Tecluical Services            (Servicios Tecoieco)
(SP)  Special Programs Rquired    (Program   Especiales Requeridos)
4/ Posts ezwlndd fros trainipg covert under the project ramire special progra  nirdicated a
,V.



- 36 -
A31 1.1
~1 .3
g g
Total ~   ~     ~      3, oanvet rifg ut  d Pwlpmt. 196690 byPnpl2zifgwlin
1966     1987       1988      1989       L990        oa
-   - AN    ~1IA  EaW
a. Senior Offas                                  iIF 1/
30       45         65                             140
PYno M_t3        4          6                              13
p.^l AiI8CD  .                ~3        4          6                               13
L bgal AofPet3    3                                4         6                               13
S o986     57        983      19T 179
b. Sldarl Officals  2/
Progr   PrlorIties                       3         5         7          3         3          21
Finazi al      _                        11        22        28 Mt                12          93
I        Yudct                           6        8         12         10         4          40
Prcg l dmilniemi                         3         5         7          3         2          21)
Legal Aspects                            4         7        10          5         4          30
Tedbnical Services                       6        10        20         15         5          56
Sub-Total                          3i        57        84         56        30         260
TOtal                              72       114       167         56        31         439
-r~CIPAtDS (lncln    tranerst)
a. Se-ior Officia   1/
Progr  Priodties                     2,400    3,600      5,2D0                           11,20D
Pl    dM     _m2t 240                           320        48D                            1,040
!b ial stratici              240       32D        480                           1,040
Legal Aspet                            240       32D       480                            1,040
Sub9Tot.1                       3.1       4,560     6,640                           14,32D
b. Qid-Iwl Officials  2/
Prog   fPtiritie                        60       100       140         60        60         42D
Finmeis Kwai_eut                       22D      440        560       400        240       1,860
Credit Nrnvmt                          1m       160        240        20D        80         800
mf cipal Adzstraim                    60       100        140        60         40        400
lAspets                                 SD       140       200        100        80         60D
Services                     12D       200        400       300        100      1,120
SubilotaL                         60    1,40        1,6D       1.1       600       5,200
Total                           3,780    5,700      5,3X)      I,Im        mm        9,w
I/ 1e-dqe    os oD
1/Fieda e           of 2)E  pticipui
3/     sts  "rW    a fin 0.5 dqs  to 10 dsp c uw% ad NW tdce the fdm  of a uMdia, p   nabp, cs,
an-site tralzdrg, etc. lbe tim  for P--cdxmi bu bur  umod far buIpttkg axd jp3 hzb  wpjapu rly.



- 37 -
MNX1.1
Table 1.4
NEXW
MUCIPAL TR        -!UC PR0J CT
Federal and State Staff Daveloymnat
Total of Progect T    i      ents 37 and PartIcivant. (1986-90
YEAR
1986     1987     1968     1089      1990     TOTAL
TIE                                                   I
1. TRAINING EVENTS I1
Program Priorities                  10        8        6        2        -         26
Financial Management                 9        7        5        2        -         23
Credit Management                    a        4        3        1        -         16
Municipal Administration           i1         6        7        2        -         25
Legal Aspects                       12        6        5        2        -         25
Technical Services                   8        6        4         1       -         19
TOTAL                         57       37       30       1n        -        134
2.  PARTICIPANTS 2/
(incl. 5Z Trainers)
Program Priorities                 200      160      120       40        _        520
Financial Managerent               1an      140      100       40                 460
Credit Management                  160       80       60       20        -        320
Municipal Administration           200      120      140       40        -        500
Legal Aspects                      240      120      100       40        -        500
Technical Services                 160      120       g0       20        -        3Rn
TOTAL                     1,140       740      600      200       -       2,6Rn
1/  Estimated at 5 days average duration for 20 particivants.
2/ Mission estimates equivalent to 242 of total axency return.
3/  "Events' may range from 0.5 days to 10 days or wore, and may take the form of a seminar,
Workshop, course, 0n -site training, ete. The tlme for events shown has been used for
budgetting and planning purposes only.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1.1
Table 1.5
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
AGGREGATED COST/DAY
5-day course of 20 participants                               US$
RE rA
- training rooms at Mex.Ps. 300,000                           92.
- course equipment at Mex.Ps. 200,000                         615
INSTRUCTORS
- honoraria at Mex.Ps. 250,000                                770
- travel at Mex.Ps. 68,000                                    210
- accommodation/subsistence at Mex.Ps. 140,000                430
PARTICIPANTS
- travel at Mex.Ps. 13,000 x 20                               800
- accommodation/subsistence at Mex.Ps. 70,000
per participant/week x 20 participants                    4,310
8 060
Divided by 5 days and 20 participants:                  US$ Wp~fer day
2-day seminar of 80 participants                              USS
RENTAL
- training rooms at Mex.Ps. 300,000                           925
- course equipment at Mex.Ps. 200,000                         615
INSTRUCTORS
- honoraria at Mex.Ps. 250,000                                770
- travel at Mex.Ps. 68,000                                    210
- accommodation/subsistence at Mex.Ps. 56,000                 180
PARTICIPANTS
- travel at Mex.Ps. 13,000 x 80                             3,200
- accommodation/subsistence at Mex.Ps. 28,000
per participant/seminar x 80 participants                 6,900
12,800
Divided by 2 days and 80 participants:                  US$ 80 per day



ANNEX 1.1
Attachment 1.6
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Institutional Responsibilities by Training Themes
1.        The grouping of main training themes has been carried out through
an iterative process reflecting priorities expressed in surveys and
interviews with municipal officials, other experts, the availability of
existing course material, and the capacity of existing organizations.
There will in practice be a number of overlapping and complementary courses
offered by different institutions. Demand expressed in response from the
municipalities is expected over time to reinforce specialization.
A. Theme: PROGRAMME PRIORITIES (PP)
2.        This series forms part of an overall orientation to the problems
of municipal reform and financial management. All key agencies will
therefore participate to a greater or lesser degree, assuming leading roles
as appropriate.
B. Theme: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT (FM)
3.        The Secretariat of Finance (SHCP) and its subsidiaries, INDETEC
(para. 4), CEF (para. 5), INCAFI (para. 6) will be primarily responsible
for this group, issisted by SPP and the successor to CECADE (para. 11).
Secretariat of Finance (Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP)
4.        The SHCP's participation in technical assistance and training for
municipal development is directed to institutional and financial
strengthening of municipal resources as a basis for economic and social
improvement. The program provides an introduction to the Mexican financial
system and the functions, organization and procedures of municipal
finance. Training and technical assistance is given in fiscal
coordination, financial programming, including municipal budgeting and
management of public debt, identification and mobilization of credit
resources, and price and tariff setting for mauncipal services.
5.        The Institute for Technical Development of Public Finance
(INDETEC) was established in 1973 as a 'government association' under a
general assembly ccmposed of federal and state representatives. The
Institute's program is wholly financed from government sources (40%
federal, 60% states) and is staffed by a full time faculty of 35 who
undertake studies into legislative and administrative aspects of state and
municipal financial management. Study findings are used in the design of
training programs, and are disseminated with other national and
International material through 3 periodicals which the Institute
publishes. In 1984, the Institute trained about 2,000 officials in 150
decentralized courses/seminars of an average 3-day duration. Courses are
rin in the officials' own localities although this has been restricted by
inadequate resources for travel. Some 2/3 month courses are run
ce:zrlly. Course themes include municipal financial administration,
incone budgetting, property taxation, municipal accounting, procedures,
administration of municipal services and the role of the municipality in



- 40 -
ANNEX 1.1
Attachment 1.6
Page 2 of 4
national fiscal coordination. The Institute provides advisory services to
municipalities and state governments on request, currently about 10
assignments per year. INDETEC has developed a practical approach to
training which uses case study material and role playing. Faculty members
are aware of pedagogic as well as technical issues and this is reflected in
imaginative training design.
6.        The Centre for Financial Studies (CEF  Eduardo Suarez-) was
established within SHCP's Direccion General de Credito Publico, to provide
specific on-the-job training and interchange of experience between
practicing financial career employers at various levels of federal, state
and municipal service, with the specific objective of building a specific
cadre of financial career civil servants. The focus of training will be on
financial planning and management within the constraints of the current
economic and financial parameters facing Mexico. The Centre will be
assisted by outside (government) Institutions (INAP, IPADE, [NAM, etc.) to
develop a full time program of training.
7.        The National Institute for Fiscal Training (INCAFI) was
established in 1980 to initiate and support training programmes in internal
revenue procedures. The Institute has 55 full time staff engaged in
instruction, production of training materials (modules, videos), and
publication of magazines and training aids. Modular materials have been
developed for use in 12 courses. The Institute provides training for
instructors in the use of video as an integral part of training
programmes. The video library which has already been developed is an
important resource for training of municipal staff. The video production
team of 8 people has lost no staff in 5 years, and good material has been
produced in restricted accommodation with very basic facilities. Lack of
resources to obtain spares and replacement equipment has recently led to a
reduction in studio output despite growing demand for training materials.
C. Theme: CREDIT MANAGEMENT (CM)
8.        In 1984, BANOBRAS established a Center for Studies, Documentation
and Assistance for Municipal Development (CEDADEM). The Centre has been
energetic during the preparation of the project, but it is inadequately
staffed to deal with the broad program of assistance it originally intended
to provide to municipalities. It is currently being reorganized, and it
will in future focus on Credit Management and Operations (financial
appraisal; Economic and Project Evaluations; Credit Procedures ad Loan
Processing; Procurement, etc). Technical experienced staff would be
recruited from within BANOBRAS' existing operating divisions and
supplemented with specialist technical assistance as required. Final plans
for CEDADEM's reorganization will be brought to negotiations.
D. Theme: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION (MA) and LEGAL ASPECTS (LA)
9.        Strengthening municipal administration including legislation will
be primarily the task of the SG, the SPP and their subsidiaries at the
federal and state levels. In May 1984, the Secretariat of Government (SG)
established a National Center for Municipal Studies (CNEM) to help
accelerate the national municipal reform program. The Centre sponsors and
undertakes studies in municipal organization, disseminates study findings



- 41 -
ANNEX 1.1
Attachment 1.6
Page 3 of 4
and other information, and is a focal point in municipal administration
improvements. Centres for municipal studies (CEED) have been established
in each state, and legislation for a model municipal constitution has been
drafted. The Centre's present professional staff of 20 will be increased
to assist municipalities to adapt the model to specific requirements, and
to develop corresponding operating procedures. The Centre will set up an
information system at each state level, and will coordinate a study
including data collection (with the assistance of the Training Support
Unit) towards preparation of a national training policy for municipal
development.
10.       The Secretariat of Programming and Budget's (SPP) Directorate
General for Regional Development works through a Directorate of Urban
Planning which undertakes study programs on administrative decentralization
and advisory services to states and municipalities in staff training and
planning support. Training activities are currently being extended in
cooperation with University faculties and include the development of
modular training materials. There are plans for experienced former
municipal presidents to participate in training programs under contract to
the University or the SPP.
I1.       The SPP operates a Center of Training for Development (CECADE).
In 1984, for example 354 officials from 24 states participated in training
programs in budgeting, programming, state planning, project development and
basic economics. Over 70% of participants were drawn from other
Secretariats and para-statal and non-governmental organizations. Declining
resources for training have led to the increasing concentration of programs
in Mexico City. In August 1985, CECADE formally disappeared in a broader
institutional cut-back of various Secretariats. It has since been
re-established in SPP's Directorate of Regional Planning. Key Staff have
been re-distributed to selected State level positions.
E. Theme: TECHNICAL SERVICES (TS)
12.       In 1982 the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE)
assumed the former functions of the Secretariat of Human Settlements and
Public Works (SAHOP), which between 1976 and 1982, trained 7,000
officials. SEDUE has responsibility for Housing, Urban Development,
Potable Water and Sanitation, Pollution and Environment Protection.
Training programs in these areas are supported by a full range of modular
training packages and are regarded as central to the Secretariat's role.
Available materials are not being fully utilized because of lack of
adequate funds for training. Programs are offered for federal,state and
municipal officials. Special emphasis is given to training of instructors
which has a multiplier effect when they run training courses in their own
Secretariats and Departments. Although SEDUE has adequate training
materials and staff available, its training units are too fragmented to
benefit from the technical assistance to be given to institutional staff
for improving the quality (content and delivery) of training programs.
SEDUE has undertaken to prepare a plan for consolidating their training
units to this end, and to implement this consolidation during the -rly
stages of the projects.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1.1
Attachment 1.6
Page 4 of 4
Other Institutions
13.       Mexico is not short of training institutions (including private
or officially sponsored institutes specializing in public management
training) that can be brought into active participation in the Government's
decentralization program. In addition to academic institutions (higher
level teaching institutions), many semi-autonomous organizations provide
local training and bring together international expertise to Mexico for
seminars, etc. Typical among these are INAP, IPADE and UNAM (paras.
14-16).
14.       The National Institute of Technical Administration (INAP) is a
semi autonomous organization financed from affiliation fees, charges for
training and consultancy services, sale of publications, and a budgetary
allocation from the Government. In 1983, the Institute established a
Centre of Studies for Municipal Administration (CEDAM) to support the
Government's municipal strengthening program. The Centre publishes an
informative bi-monthly bulletin for distribution to states and
municipalities. Special studies and a series of Technical Guides have been
published, with further regular publications planned. The Centre's program
includes intensive training for municipal officials.  In 1984, for example
807 officials attended 2-day seminars and 35 representatives from 9
countries took part in a 3-week Latin American Seminar for Training of
Instructors in Municipal Administration organized by CEDAM in Mexico City.
The Centre is equipped and prepared to undertake sub-contracted training
and research activities in municipal development as required by line
ministries.
15.       The Universidad Iberoamericana's Instituto Panamericano de Alta
Direccion de Empresa (IPADE), specializes in executive training. It is one
of the most advanced centres of management training in Latin American with
top rated facilities in Mexico City; offers a diversified program and has
an excellent faculty. It will be amongst other institutions which will be
invited to improve the management of training institutions.
16.       The Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico's (UNAM's) Facultad
de Contaduria y Administracion is also active in management training in the
area of financial management and has offered a program on "Financial
Information and Control Systems for Municipalities.
17.       These and others, in addition to some outside mexico, will be
brought in to assist with specific technical assistance during the
implementation of the project.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
PHYSICAL DECENTRALIZATION OF FEDERAL PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(PILOT COMPONENT)
Note: This component was included after the Appraisal (August 1985) of the
proposed Municipal Strengthening Project (FORTAMUN). It reflects the find-
ings of an appraisal mission in November 1985 in connection with the Earth-
quake Reconstruction Project, and is based on data brought to Washington
(December 19-20, 1985) by a Mexican Government delegation with a specific
request for assistance (see memc to files dated December 30, 1985).
1.       Background.  On September 19, 1985, Mexico was hit by one of the
worst earthquakes in its history, measuring 8.1 in the Richter scale. The
earthquake and subsequent aftershocks caused severe damage in Mexico City
and in the States of Jalisco, Michoacan, Colima, Guerrero and Mexico.
Financing for earthquake damages outside Mexico City will be addressed
through amendments to existing loans and through proposed future opera-
tions. These states have now been included in the list of priority states
to be selected under the Municipal Strengthening Project (FORTAMUN) through
whicb reconstruction of damaged municipal infrastructure will be financed
(Annex 3.2).  Additional funding, primarily for housing will be financed
through the normal program of FONHAPO.
2.          The proposed Reconstruction Project focuses on damage within
Mexico City, and will finance primarily the reconstruction of shelter and
selected amenities.   In Mexico City alone, an estimated 60Z of federal
Government buildings were destroyed or heavily damaged and need to be
demolished.   Instead of reconstructing office space in Mexico City, the
Government has decided to accelerate the ongoing program for the physical
Decentralization of Federal Public Administration (DPA). For practical and
psychological reasons it is important that significant implementation of
the decentralization program, move in parallel with the reconstruction
effort in Mexico City.   Various Secretariats have been instructed to
relocate staff and operations to selected municipalities and states. The
GOM proposed utilizing this opportunity to initiate a discreet pilot compo-
nent under FORTAMUN to explore related issues, as a prerequisite to
expanding the program.
3.          Key Issues:  In order to sustain the decentralization program
beyond the initial stage a number of issues must be addressed:
a) First, there is a need to strengthen the institutional coordina-
tion at the federal and state le els to permit a coordinated and
comprehensive capital budgeting and programming mechanism for
complementary  investments  from  different  sources.    Besides
investment-, made directly by municipalities, there are a number
of federal and state projects and subsector programs that normal-
ly also finance related infrastructure and public services, for
example, roads, telephone, trunk water supply, schools, housing
for various income groups, etc. (Annex 6). Agencies and programs



- 44 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 2 of 7
include among others the SCT, the SSA, the SEP, FONHAPO, FOVI,
INFONAVIT. A systematic institutional process in which policy,
financing and investments are coordinated at the federal level
and integrated with technical (physica'l and economic) development
plans prepared by the municipality or state is critical.
b) A more accurate assessment of likely resource requirements is a
desirable prerequisite to expansion of the program. In documents
prepared by SEDUE1/, it is estimated that earthquake-related
reconstruction and decentralization will require about US$3
billion (Attachment 1).  The immediate decentralization program
alone for about 20 cities is estimated at approximately US$1.5
billion for the period 1986-88. This scale of public investment
in 20 cities requires more careful evaluation of i) the utiliza-
tion of existing resources through subsector budgetary alloca-
tions; ii) its impact on the public investment program previously
prepared, iII) its implications on the GOM's external borrowing;
and iv) the programming of complementary sub-projects in an
environment subject to fluctuating capital availability;
c) there is the need to explore alternative financing, mobilizing
additional local resources, particularly from the private sector
to substitute or complement public expenditure.   For example,
could private sector finance companies, corporations or indivi-
duals finance construction of public administration buildings in
return for long-term land leases and/or in consideration of
long-term  rental  agreements?    Should  the  private sector  be
encouraged to construct more of the revenue-generating projects
such as markets, abatoirs and other similar municipal services?
Such policy shifts could, for example, reduce the demands on the
public sector and increase revenues through property taxes and
other fees, which in turn could be directed towards improved
operation and maintenance;
d) an accelerated investment program to support decentralization
will include extensions to trunk infrastructure to accomodate
future  growth.    The  capital  costs  cannot  always  be  fully
recovered in the early phases of the subproject. The policy for
deferring full capital cost recovery will have to be elaborated;
e) a fundamental objective under the FORTANMUN addresses the issue of
institutional and financial responsibility for operation and
maintenance. Not all municipalities will have the managerial or
financial capacity to assume immediate responsibility for the
operation  and maintenance of  all infrastructure.   Investment
plans for specific cities should include strengthening their
institutional and financial capacity under FORTAMUN. Such plans
will also have to clearly define the institutional responsibi-
lities for planning, implementing and maintaining (by agencies)
respective services during this period, especially in cases where
more than a single municipal jurisdiction may be involved; and
1/ Copy in Pioject File.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 3 of 7
f) Finally, there is a need to strengthen the information and data
recording systems in both the SPP and in SEDUE, to enable a quan-
tification of the real costs and benefits of decentralization.
A pilot component under FORTAMUN would provide an opportunity to immediate-
ly explore these issues.
4.        Objectives:  The Government's objective through this component is
to address the decentralization program in selected cities in an integrated
manner, instead of through hitherto separate, and sometimes uncoordinated
subsectoral investments.
5.           Specific objectives under this subcomponent will be (a) to
develop a -process' for implementing decentralization objectives (while
deconcentrating Mexico City) in priority cities; (b) to identify typical
minimum and realistic resource requirements from SPP for expanding the
program, (c) to identify the implications and overall externa'l credit
requirements of the program and its impact on the Public Investment
Program; (d) to identify and implement policies in respect of responsibil-
ities for operation and maintenance of completed infrastructure; (e) to
develop efficient institutional coordination at the federal and state
levels for capital budgeting and programming from a number of sources (for
example: SCT, SSA, SEP, FIFAPA, FONHAPO, FOVI, INFONAVIT) and for expansion
of such a program; (f) to identify potential investments by, and increase
incentives for participation by the private sector; and (g) strengthening
the information systems in SPP and SEDUE towards improved evaluation of the
decentralization program.
6.          Description:   The project would additionally finance the four
components under FORTAMUN as follows:   a) the investment fund will be
increased by US$25 millIon (US$12.5 million loan) which will be targetted
specifically in at least two selected cities (para. 9), for municipal
infrastructure investments necessitated under the decentralization effort,
and for which no other resources (from the SPP or through sub-sector
budgetary allocations) are available; b) the Municipal Staff Development
and Management Strengthening component, the Federal and State Staff Devel-
opment and Institutional Strengthening component, and the project adminis-
tration component will be increased by a total of US$5.0 million (US$2.5
million loan) - This will provide for TA and Training and Studies to carry
out pre-investment and municipal management training, detailed feasibility
studies, for preparing a detailed follow-up project addressing the needs of
the 20 priority cities (para. 9) and for project administration. Eligible
subprojects for financing would include all municipal infrastructure (water
supply, sewerage, roads, bridges, etc.) and special urban investments as
listed in Annex 2.1. In addition under the DPA component trunk infrastruc-
ture or shared inter-municipal infrastructure would also be eligible for
financing subject to compliance with the specific conditions for disburse-
ment as noted in para. 11, and satisfactory detailed subproject evaluation
in accordance with the Operating Guidelines prepared for FORTAMUN.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 4 of 7
Component Cost and Financing
7.          General cost estimates have been prepared by SEDUE (Annex 1.2,
Attachment 1). The amount allocated for the investment fund (US$25 miullion
and TA and Training (US$5.0 million) subcomponents have been based on these
estimates. The foreign exchange characteristics will be similar to typical
investments  already  appraised  under the FORTAMUN.   Approximately  1200
staff-months of local consultants' services (US$ 3.6 million) and 50 staff
months of foreign consultants' services (US$0.4 million) have been added to
the FORTAMUN project as appraised. About US$1.0 million has been estimated
for expansion of the municipal and institutional training components to
accelerate training of "host" municipalities in the 20 cities, and federal
and state institutions. Cost sharing,the flow of funds, cost recovery and
other principles governing financial policy would be identical to those
agreed under the FORTAMUN.
Execution of the Component
Organization, Management and Implementation
8.         Four principal Government Secretariats (SG, SPP, SHCP and SEDUE)
and BANOBRAS would be involved in the FORTAMUN. To initiate the project,
the institutional structure (Steering Committee, Technical Secretariat,
Training Support Unit, etc.) as designed for the 'core" participants in the
FORTAMUN would be adopted.  (see paras. 3.14 to 3.15 of main report).  For
the purposes of overall coordination of city-wide programming of capital
investments however, a number of additional agencies would be also involved
(for example: SCT, SEP, FONHAPO, etc.). Developing the framework for such
coordination is the primary objective of this pilot component. Because of
the importance the government attach to the decentralization program, the
Steering Committee will assume overall responsibility for coordination of
the pilot component delegating specific responsibilities as required to one
or more (jointly) participating agencies.
Selection of Pilot Cities for the Emergency Relocation Program
9.         Approximately 60 medium-size cities have been identified by the
GOM as being suitable. 20 of these (with an estimated absorptive capacity
of up to 600,000 persons) have been designated for the emergency relocation
program (starting 1986) and are thus given the highest priority. Selection
criteria are pragmatic and focus on immediate absorptive capacity at the
least cost. These criteria include inter-alia, physical location and the
cities' priority in the national spatial strategy; existing population
size, annual rate and potential of population growth; availability and
suitability of land for expansion; relative deficits in service provision
and constraints to expansion (water supply, sewerage, drainage, roads,
postal and telecommunications, etc.); the expandable capacity of existing
infrastructure; the availability of housing; and finally, exposure risk to
natural  disasters,  (earthquake, flooding, etc.).  A copy of the list of
selected 20 cities, detailed analyses and final ranking is available in the
Project File. The Steering Committee will select at least two cities for
the pilot sub-component.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 5 of 7
Compliance with Operating Guidelines under the FORTAMUN
10.       All operating and implementing procedures for the component such
as Procurement and Disbursements, Accounts and Auditing; Monitoring and
Reporting Requirements, On-lending Terms and Procedures; Appraisal of
Sub-borrowers;  Appraisal  of  Sub-projects;  Sub-loans  Agreements;  and
application of matching grants, would be in accordance with the Operating
Guidelines (Annex 5) for FORTAMUN.
Status of Preparation
11.       SEDUE in collaboration with other Secretariats and the selected
municipalities has been preparing technical documents for the program.
During negotiations, SEDUE through the Technical Secretariat (TS) submitted
evidence of the advanced state of preparation for selected cities (Aguas
Calientes, Ags.; Morelia, Mich.; Queretaro, Qro.; and the conurbations of
TampicofAltamira/Murillo/Pueblo Viejo/Tamos. At least two among these will
be selected.  Some further work on the documents is required.  Assurances
were received that under this sub-component, a request to the Bank for
approval of a subloan, would be accompanied by a) an institutional and
financial appraisal of the Sub-borrower carried out in accordance with Pro-
Forma A of the Operating Guidelines; b) the detailed capital investment
plan in respect of the Decentralization Program for the eligible municipal-
ity, including the appropriate technical, financial and administrative
information on the implementation of such plan, and a description of the
investments to be made by the federal or state government outside the scope
of the subproject; and c) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
Terms of Reference for Main Studies
12.        The outline scope of the Terms of Reference for two groups of
studies under this subcomponent was also discussed. These are as follows:
a) Overall Strategy for implementing the Physical Decentralization
Program.   The Consultants' Terms of Reference will include:
(i) completing an up-dated assessment of the number of persons
and functions (by agency), to be relocated out of Mexico City to
the selected cities; ii) making an assessment of the program's
capital cost requirements by subsector; iii) estimating in
collaboration with SPP and SHCP the resource availability, the
implications of the program on overall credit requirements, and
its impact on the normal public investment program over the short
and medium term; iv) making recommendations on financial policies
relating to: a) the operation and maintenance of completed infra-
structure; and b) the alternatives for financing urban services
(private sector/vs. the public sector or both); v) making
recommendations on institutional strengthening, policies at the
federal and state levels, for example coordination, budgeting and
programm.ng, physical planning, etc.) and finally vi) proposing a
realistic timeframe for implementation of the program.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1. 2
Page 6 of 7
b) City Specific Studies.  In order to develop the overall strategy
noted in para. 12 (a) above, it will be necessary for a number of
city-related specific studies to be carried out In parallel with
the main study. These studies would focus on i) an institutional
and financial appraisal of the selected city (municipality or
groups of adjacent uwnicipalities) in accordance with Pro Forma A
of FORTAWNN as set out in the Operating Guidelines; ii) a review
of a triannual capital investment plan assuaing a 'low'
availability or a 'high' availability of funds; iii) an
examuination of a financing plan which would incorporate public
and private sector financed program and a review of the impact
of the investment program on nunicipal revenues. (This sub-study
would be a requisite for the development of appropriate
recommendations for cost recovery  of  capital,  operating  and
maintenance expenses); and finally vi) the institutional strategy
based  on  the  findings  under  related  studies  above,  for
inplementation, operation and maintenance responsibilities, and
for  strengthening  the  selected  municipality 's   mmageuent
capacity.
Draft Terms of Reference for the studies would be prepared and submitted to
the Bank for reviw as a condition of disbursement against this
subcomponent.



KNtCIAL sR .IM , cr
Firezia1  Eathutes hAsaiiiw 20 Ifost Cities for Deostralization
Resaorce Dastrlhtian tyr Fund         Application of Resrosa       O f wtdldi
-_                             EatInAtt for
Cuaponents                                Total      limdpul  PabMlIty   Civil fbod  A Recontuc- Dt ontea-                   pilot
Rescurm  ITetltui;oml Studie snd  Ftup.(Paaon.    ton              lizattin       Cities (2)
USt  miolla Stueot1udng     ealesin    leoentmlt.)                          I
Uq$ mdllion  U   villian  U."$ miUlln   I$ adllion  US$ idUion  11$ dilion
Total8                                     2,946         IR            47         2,881         1,479          1,467         146.2
1. Plamnirg and StreilthenliW  Urlsn ?kiweunt        18         18                                                        Is           2
2. FeasiblIty Studles, PrJect Deulgi an TA           47                        47                          15              2           3
3. Road Vorks ad related Tnfratimctue               319                                     319                          319          32
a Paint                                          145                                     145                          145          15
, (autn.ctton                                    174                                     174
4. IbHiu                                           1,877                                  1,877         1,246            631*         63*
* Reaxutnittion                                  198                                     198           198
. Retternant                                     277                                     277           141            13           14
. Prpaliw                                        229                                     229            24            205         20
Fintied                                       1,125                                  1,125           835            29n.         29
*  mltiau                                        48                                      48            48
5. Ilrbm  i 1mrat                                   354                                     354             4            350          35
. Hlntiivl Infrutwture                           316                                     316                         316          32
. fulpment for Public Savio                      34                                      34                          34           3
. Rehabl.ltation of Historic 1ounents              4                                       4
6. Urtn Tra_port                                      I                                                                                .2  
_ _ _  _ _.._           _   _ _   _    _ ._        _ ._        _ _ .._         . _   _ _   _  _       ,_ _ _      .__    _     _ _     _              r
7. Ilildiip for Publie Ahndstratimn                 330                                     330                          116          11
. amstructlin                                    315                                     315                          116                          X "
. Dolition                                        15                                      15                           .                            .
*~lyinlaluas zusoumwi from MEIAP  uid &Me~
Sawze: MM 12/85.



- 50 -
2.1
KU.bi* &hro1uM. 0-1dz  Two, 1Vstr1h  of Tzmtu. ad Ct bSr . &MwU
DisrEutm              owanm  Team             CmL-tbmy bdad~
lagpowe aabwJamet facr RWAWM                      of         ___ _                             _ _
_. NOWWWM= EmMft   o                                      t     1.       .
Nw  b,       'mtm. fat tu, Ullks                 1t of eP                   5        1 T      Aurur  .n .Powezty
D_dAI                                                                                           Prqt ax .Gwnx
Natu.d mdr9>LI,                                                                                *Umrt   RePmmEw
P~cu, qu fnd2ld   ad  Camt1M    "
Levmi
U-
2. ft~EME
1  aILy aid _ai                                      65Z       Z of @P      15        4 Y      .Um d        umr I
Solid   P iciztnvj                                                                              aid fm     ad fm
_ aS  ad f_
Wtiu  omo    _ai  (ddtrck, gm)                                                                 .2
3. L      endiSw wdth POtfl S&n&z
)zddum  =does (Chlimul ad mtil.)                     30        S of QP      10        3 Ym    .PRnt       .11t
Sl aft                                                                                         .. ur dua_
Sa1          ti aa md                                                                           Sue        PDUI1/
,-ku                                                                                            Sf -(oins  TW
P.ddre ]am ad                                                                                             .Cnul 1
mqr Ig           1_ I 11
A! Imurd3 mcmst. udd~l4tim   il   a        I   lo  l   z   mtrdmofaltmS  dspm   bilhrntrv  ei
s. !p  
C:vil  1- admt a soUdut  at                 V ad   I 02    S         of QPP   S         N~ -fotztm           lm
Vddl                                                                                          Irsalot
wil thm b P-m wai wid         d    afriti malm oF dwabml   laid, or eiao' am       pe xfaq 1. U_mummt come  ,n ami
Mm s          out #a=g  In criaI at far Sold Wmtn.  _th.    Swvlam,6 E!   a m Vddelm  il ble iw3n   in (ADty 2. f2 r
on  =wy  I         0    w Sf



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Chart 2.3
MEMXCO
MUNCIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Row of Funds
X    .        ~~~FORTWUN    l
L                                mMn-eI
L~~~~~   GOM(SPPJ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AMrsofo
o        ~~~~(T5J IJ)
C-
E 
E      A     _
tOE7E CEM
4  SEDLE-
pLct r~f1    uSS million                                 .w          _
^WVIc Bffk40.0                            US$m. 12. 2   souacE2O
G>OM-sub4oWowt5    40.0                        . 0rA
To?d              80.0                  .                                          *#AMMEW
CFaOwtrgWfc0  n.dn  TWUl & ConEOn Cost lR.caaV  '
,sbottmdow9i5wit    SAflh1U   6.3                                             VI3t-3U@t



- 52 -
ANE 3
Chart 3.1
ifg                 __ __ __
X,~~~~li
n~~~~



- 53 -
3,2
)tICIPALPRW
Selection of States for Year 1: N1hT  of                adldltle.         co] A ti
actoral B)
No. of                    with   Siecticm of         Det  of dws
States         ?zdciplitLe.  mm tha 25,000          PrIority Sttm       In az!nstrtton
Pqnuatw1           for Yew I         Naddp     State
Dlstrito Fedleral      16               -
.kwm Calentes           9               4
BaJa Calfofna           4               4             Reja Cd] :fonia    01-11-6   01-11-69
Bala Caiifomla Sur      4               3
Cupede                 8                4             Comiedie            01-12-R5  16-0985
CombUIa                38              13
collm                  10               3             C0i1w*              01-12-65  01-12-65
111              24
QiChlua                67              16
DurW                   38              11
Qunajuato              46              30
Guerrro                76              23             Qmerrerd
Hidalgp                84              15
Jaltsa                124              27             Jais               01M-1-85  01-03-9
maxim21                                49             1Ba1I
Mdiboea               113              26               Mldama
Morlos                 32              10
Nayrit                 19               8             Nayit               01-11-84  19-09-67
Nuv lem                52              13              Wivo I            01-12-85  01-08-85
'ca                   570              10
Puebla                217              23
Oiezetaro              18               9             OQeretuzo          01-09-5  01-10-65
Otdntna too             7               3             Qo otam Io         6O7."87   05-08-7
San Luis Potci         56              16             San his Potoui    01-12-6   26-09-85
Simlm                 17               13
Sonora                 69              14             Soor               1349-65   13-09-65
Taleo                  17              14              1b_w               01-12-65  01-0949
Mllie                  43              13
Tlaxcal                44               6             Tlaxcala           15-1265   15-01-87
Veracruz              203               4
Yucatan               106              62             YUCin              01-12644  0102-8
Zacatecas              56              11
umL              2,379
Same: IARS
Gezencla de Plseam
9eb1mmsda de Plazeacim Reomi
Suffen  in the Sepmber 195 e.rtludw.



54 -                       ANNEX 3.3
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
ALLOCATION AND SELECTION CRITERIA
GENERAL
1.        The project will tentatively cover about 340 municipalities
(Annex 2.2) in all 31 states on a self-selection basis. Priority will
therefore be given to those municipalities in each state, likely to benefit
quickly from the project and thus serve as demonstrative examples within
each state. As demand initially may be high, each state government will
prepare a short-list from which, only those municipalities which meet with
the specific criteria as set out in the Operating Guidelines (Annex 5), for
participation in the Sub-Loan and Training components will be selected.
During the first year states which (i) suffered earthquake damage; (ii) or
are on the GOM's decentralization 'host" list, and (iii) will have new
administrations, are given priority (see Annex 3.2).
2.        Selection Criteria for Sub-loans through FORTAMUN.  The proceeds
from FORTAMUN, wolild be on-lent to municipalities which:
(a) pass the minimum affordability test, in accordance with an
assessment of their finances, as set out in Volume 2 of the
Operating Guidelines (the Municipal Financial Handbook) prepared
by BANOBRAS (Annex 5.2; and Pro Forma A, Annex 5.3);
(b) submit subprojects presented in accordance with guidelines for
their technical, financial, economic and social evaluation as
specified in the Operating Guidelines (Pro Forma B, Annex 5.4);
(c) are willing to accept the financial terms and conditions as
specified in the Sub-loan Agreements betweeen BANOBRAS and the
Borrower; and are willing to comply with Guidelines and
Procedures including procurement, accounting, monitoring, etc. as
set out in the Operating Guidelines (Annex 5.5);
(d) participate in the Municipal Staff Trainirg and Technical
Assistance component.
3.        Municipal Staff Training and Technical Assistance Components.
Participation only in the training and technical assistance program will be
open to all municipalities which: (a) comply with procedures set out in
the Operating Guidelines.



-55 -                        ANNEX 3.4
MEXICO
MUNICIPAl. STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Allocation of Matching Grants
(a) For the purposes of allocating matching grants, all 2,379
municipalities outside Mexico City (Distrito Federal) were each
ranked on the following criteria based on the 1980 census data:
(i) size of population;
(ii) deficiency in basic services; and
(iii) priority in National Development Plan.
(b) five groups (I-V) were identified, with Group I eligible for the
minimum proportional grant and Group V, for the maximum. A copy
of the document is in the Project File (Annex 8);
(c) for every amount of sub-loan taken, an incentive matching grant
will be apportioned in accordance with the specific category into
which that municipality is classified. Nothing precludes a
municipality from participating with their own additional
resources, which would increase the volume of investments; such
contributions would be considered as counterpart funds for the
purposes of disbursement out of the Project Loan;
(d) Three alternative scenarios for the matching grants, have been
examined. These are illustrated in Table 3.4 below and discussed
further in Annex 6.3.
Table 3.4
No. of
Group   Municipalities           X Z of Loans as Grants
I               18         0.7     15       5      0
II             67          2.8     25      25      5
III           177          7.5     35      20     10
IV             597         25      50      25     15
V            1,520         64      75      65     30
Total       2,379         100      50      33     16



- 56 -
ANNEX 4.1
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEMS
1.        The project would strengthen the capacity for both monitoring and
evaluation at the municipal state and federal levels. The monitoring
system for the proposed project would provide regular information about
project activities to all implementing units as well as a variety of
reports on progress of implementation essential to adequate management by
the Technical Secretariat and for fulfillment of Bank project monitoring
requirements (Chart 4.2).
2*        The monitoring system for FORTAMUN will be a separate module
under the Information System for Credit and Development (SICREF) in
BANOBRAS (see Project File for detailed description). In addition to the
existing components which monitor all activities relating to loan
request, authorization, formalization, actual investment and cost recovery,
the system for FORTANUN wv1' have two other components to be implemented in
the initial phase of the project: a) inventory of needs in the areas of
financial managevient, institutional strengthening and training (data will
be extracted from the Regional Information System on Municipalities (SIREG)
in RANOBRAS which contains information on economic, socio-demographic,
financial, access to services, political and administrative indicators, and
will be supplemented by the survey of training needs conducted by
implempnting agencies during the promotion phase of the project); and b) a
register of training and funding programs to be implemented after the
technical evaluation of each municipality vis-a-vis their needa, recorded
in the component previously mentioned.
3.        A proposed design of monitoring system and its expected output
has been reviewed by tl-e Bank and an implementation schedule agreed to.
The Technical Secretariat will be responsible for the monitoring and
evaluation of the project. Ouarterly progress reports would be prepared by
municipalities and implementing units and sent to the Technical
Secretariat. They, in turn, would aggregate these and prepare the
quarterly Implementation Summary to be sent to the Comite Directivo
(Steering Committee) and the Bank. In addition, the Technical Secretariat
will be responsible for preparing an annual evaluation to assess progress
in all project areas towards meeting major project objectives and, if
necessary, investigate any question or problems that would arise from
analyses of both monitoring and evaluation data.



- 57 -
AkMEX 4
Chart 4.2
ME)GCO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Row od Infonatlon
,iNB5JORY OF                                                               PROGRA REGEIER
TRAINI&NG aAIWNG & EK
IECHNrASST.                                                                  REr.
0UONAL                                                                    VWRJONAL
SXGHNWG                                                                      STENGTHG
lErOGRAM                                                                     EPROGRAM
INFORMATION TO
lECH SECRET.
S UtiAARY I PROJECr
FILE
_   KEY VINDICATORS &
PERFORM. MONITOQING
QUARIERLY PROGRESS
REPOR1S
ANNUAL & PROJECr
UPLEMEEW. Sj9AARY
LOAN REOUCiT    l                          l                                  TO IBRD
LOAN I REb                                               Z                  LOAN CODON
AUHRCTON &LOA RGSE
e                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~RJC GKENERAL                  LOA REPAVMNT     
VVd Bar*-302WA



- 58 -
AR 4.3
Table 1
KNICIPAL    P EnumvU Paw=
1986        1987       19...
A. TrairAig -xUpeors
1. Partidpatiia  in and acuirdstratimn of trxning pzogzq 1:
a) No. of par ng    tis
b) No. of eents offered
c) No. of mmicipal aind federl staff trned per event
d) Averq  cost per pari pat per cmmse
e) No. of Izstrctor  trained
f) No. of Fel1ashIps
B.   IA}rItrctur Investment in!
1. P tundr MoxitorLtg Indicators for hunicipalities:
a) Debt service/total reimzes
b) Capital erpsitures/total revesm
c) Total e,eru/total revwues
O De-bt service/arent eqpenditLur
e) C      nqxoitim of Revem   (i.e. beneficnary bw,
bettermnt levies, and gerel)
co tnm              indicators
a) Paosirg tizm for loan applicain and disbrsemnt
(bre*-down oE thme tdcen for e   step Wby iespcaible
pny involved)
b) No. of lom applcatfons received and 2 approved
c) Averasze of Sub-loam by GRP ao       micpalities
D. Cavera of Pro1ec..
a) No. of states, promtion comleted
b) No. of dm plitks particit   in tranigim
c) No. of umidpalitias receiving FORIWIJN sub-louS
d) No. af Regimal Offic  of BaEAS
e) No. of State Offices of EAS
f) No. of "       tt         offaE     of BA!I8AtAS



- 59 '
Aw 5.1
mmac% inmgcFo  R
_nm ati Pm pmhi, of tw MEW  Pr                 in In web lE
mm~WO   STMZ
Actlvtim Sdwhle I/
A PrCmoi. ColmuIctee is SoizAf (mat-I-UMMICY)
Visit to di' tae Gomz,,ror
Iduiatimi to H   civ Pe wuida
MutelpelIMMttLgWrnu.gr  W!                                      Egiiet,p.   iwMIbit-ttoUA
drtu4   tmrciv   L              o                                 tthiulte,        _tate
(Qddei              Rodl Prt P )                   (Qlldm,lmwt      .os Mid Prefrm)
Nwd4wUlm                      raquer   to 1  S      %mlipallty   pII  j       .  ntet  ot ROWS
dtw       seate oIUS n"             idth capm       ddrm        to 1S dwos  ete R4SI'
to tie SectaaLt  of G      b  wI to a(LMA1S        z=p   atiw sdth ow to (XLAs
The TS tet sii=          to the n;n foc                        rnd]t iuca     pddliM  cn tedmiml dat.
Wb12   an eaiIntia    the T finI                   roqturzmunts fo  mud l       n f e    and iittitr-
Support unit (TDo                                  timul  ualy.s (%=*xI  ax sifrilp. Amiwlls.
|                    asp~~~Chter 3)
T.W  acpoizm.   I    a Widonel Inf6rustion  1d      mm?tdpsaity    rledoiC
c-3mmLth die Ttd3            t     IR      aid
inz_ta im    idmtim to'S W5                                cmu te ft      e fn. ete  Ord
flzunca anelyses (Profom A)  ' anI   cn
T'S jzmte qpUfaxtIcu id   _       Cmmhtia   to the  hwrvai W lialts ai oidi
stee    Ott       (S:)                                              reI
ltivIt piwe. aid &hid Teduical i_uet
Aplfmtion  Wv1.  IS -     IL ffie.  idue el        vich Subprnjedw imus (P.OfoN B) aawItSI br
xneWs of SCs                                       SE". o cousutants 'tf
I'S relds  fin& to               WnM               1 recive su!xlxoe m>        t d=7amo  lUIAS
I              tfstateoietatif   aid A umits for eumiziata to
sm1 atorl    tpc w e tmittw    am                    oot ten hirW m                  Onerstials
o Fid nce)
TS      freedtb Mm see, moultors overaU         If puiti'ie,      S             t,  s     f
uxdzlt~ tf qztm, with alime to 1'S.
Etmb         af pCOa lm ICt (1S. IJ.
emaitlig _des. mdepmitii)                          7oeiLnZmtiw  oE cmdit       AS. )mdpm]v
and is)
F-metion of W*lw     i
S9pervbelm aid   ff         ddp.lity, nUAS,
se)
pmuwLp.JIty      o er in    fb       r w Mtn
md edoxeeI
TGUivAmta  p.dMc        rae Nxdcivsllty stsUlo
Ttbnln of          If gV"        T. AOW  M
I/   |    aiviti  lm an .tiu.ad ts   gale  f o d Pe rfb.           n lttdW WM             ' Yiw
us         -      to idwt*f  CrtAM-  qsm=UaW  bottlmisd  m  d iitrwhae furdW  ur eiildzw er
- a    _ D1stme m b,m   anx rmau   or micei wumiZtS



- 60 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Pro Fornma for Financial Appraisal of Each Municipality
1.        A standard municipal financial appraisal methodology has been
developed during project preparation. The methodology has been tested with
positive results on two municipal projects, one a large municipality
(Tijuana) and one small (Tuxpan). It is intended to be a standard tool for
BANOBRAS' appraisal of a municipality's financial status. It is undergoing
some refinement and is thereafter intended to be applied to all loan
requests to RANOBRAS.
2.        Basic inputs to the methodology are historical data on municipal
revenues, expenditures, municipal general characteristics (including
population, municipal employees, service production levels, price
deflators, etc.) and proposed project data, including infrastructure and
technical assistance components. The revenue, expenditure and general
characteristics data provide the basis for a municipal situation
assessment. Municipal financial status trends are identified, including
the relative growth (total and per capita) of different revenue and
expenditure categories, and critical financial ratios (e.g., current
revenues/current expenditures, current revenues/total revenues, debt
service/total revenues, etc.) may be examined.
3.        The situation assessment alone may identify municipal financial
problems that should be the target of training and technical assistance, as
well as performance targets, including cost recovery measures, that should
be agreed to as a condition for participat!on in the BANOBRAS loan
program. It also provides the basis for making revenue and expenditure
projections expected in the municipality without the BANOBRAS financed
project under examination. Initially, BANOBRAS' own staff will employ
the financial assessment methodology. Ultimately, state level staff will
be trained in its use. For consistency in all municipalities, a projected
annual growth rate based on expected rates of inflation will always be
used. Trained analysis will judge when other methods should be used as
supplements. For example, for some revenues and expenditures, past trends
may provide the basis for projections. For others, deterministic methods
based on interviews with municipal staff (e.g., Investment programs,
personnel policy changes expected, etc) and on expected changes in state
and national policies may be appropriate.
4.        Finally, the proposed sub-project characteristics are introduced,
including investment costs, financing conditionts, cost recovery measures,
operation and maintenance costs, etc. These data provide a "with project"
scenario. Comparison of "with- and 'without' project scenarios provide the
basis for evaluation of the proposed project's financial impact on the
municipality. In addition to the standard financial internal rate of
return, the appraisal methodology includes examination of key performance
ratios, seeking to insure that the proposed project is moving the
municipality in the right direction in terms of financial status.
5.        Implementation of the appraisal methodology will be at two
levels. For large, more complex loan applications (including support for
three or more sub-projects in the same loan), BANOBRAS staff will utilize
the methodology to assess municipal financial capacity and the impact of



- 61 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 3
the proposed loan on that capacity. Otherwise, a simpler approach to
stimulating municipal credit operations with BANOBRAS will be employed. At
the state level, the general methodology will be utilized to establish for
all municipalities a general line of credit. This would take into account
only the municipality's general capacity to borrow, without considering
possible direct cost recovery from individual projects. Thus,
municipalities would know in general how much they might be able to borrow,
with the possibility for still larger amounts dependent on specific cost
recovery features of individual project applications. Particularly for
appropriate subsectors, municipalities will be encouraged to increase the
use of user charges to recover service delivery costs.
6.        For municipalities' potential use, and for states with limited
staff resources, the appraisal methodology includes simple methods of
forecasting future revenues and expenditures based on annual growth rate
assumptions. Guidance will have to be provided to municipalities by the
Federal government on such assumptions as expected rates of inflation and
Federal policy with respect to public employee salary increases.
7.        Tables 1 and 2 (attached) illustrate the application of the
proforma appraisal methodology to two different municipalities. Tijuana,
B.C., is a large, relatively wealthy municipality (Group I); Tuxpan,
Nayarit is a small, relatively poorer municipality (Group IV). The Tijuana
example illustrates an analysis based on a solid historical base
(1979-1984) and with good information about actual future debt service
requirements based on current commitments and the capital expenditure
implications of completing current commitments. The projected overall
surplus deficit indicates an increasing amount available for capital
investment. The overall surplus is especially high in years 1988-1990
because it reflects the completion of current capital projects with no
large, new start-ups. From the analysis, BANOBRAS would establish a credit
line. Considering 1985 and 1986 (assuming the vantage point of the last
completed year -- 1984), the credit, line would suggest Tijuana's limits at
only 50 to 60 million pesos (about US$200,000). However, beginning in
1987, Tijuana has a much larger capacity to borrow. BANOBRAS might suggest
then some kind of bridge financing for 1985-86 in order to permit Tijuana
to leverage a much higher credit limit. This credit limit takes into
account the use of only existing revenues. A larger project well beyond
the credit limit could be financed if the project itself generated revenue
through some form of beneficiary charges.
8.        The second example, Tuxpan, illustrates projections based only on
1984 data, using an estimated annual growth rate sufficient to keep Tuxpan
operations at the same level in constant pesos (assumed inflation rates
were used for the projections). The example first illustrates the need for
BANOBRAS to require the implementation of a financial and service
information base in Tuxpan to generate in the future the type of
information available in Tijuana. Second, it is clear that Tuxpan has
never (or not in recent years) borrowed aa there are no debt service
obligations. However, Tuxpan generates an annual surplus of revenues over
expenditures of approximately 15%. In addition to establishing a credit
limit of about 36 million pesos, BANOBRAS would need to provide training in
sound financial management practices, emphasizing the amount of capital
infrastructure that could be financed if Tuxpan would undertake credit



- 62 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 3 of 3
operations. The project scenario at the bottom of the table illustrates
the fact that Tuxpan could increase capital expenditures more than
four-fold in 1985-86 (from 3 and 4 million to 18 and 18 million) by
initiating a 36 million pesos project with a loan from BANOBRAS.
9.        The two examples illustrate the process that is being put in
place by BANOBRAS under this project. Based on its existing financial
condition, a municipality is appraised through the methodology as eligible
for a specific credit line. With this information, the municipality can
design a sub-project based on that line of credit, certain of loan
approval. If a more ambitious project is desired, the municipality also
knows in advance that additional revenues beyond current patterns would
have to be generated, perhaps through user charges, in order to obtain a
larger loan.



-63 -                                                   AZN  5.2
Table 1: TLIUANA
Profu  Finacial Apprusal: Tijuana,I.C.
Histurical                                            Projectd
Iiillen  de #pen)                                197      1990     1991      1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1919     19B9    1999      IM0
Curret Rnue                                         247      461      676     1019     1730     3395     3244    3912      4331      496      5517     6096
Current Expenditurn                                 311      419      756       71     1550     290      2770    3239      3707      4176     4645    5114
Current SArplas/deficit                             (64)     42       (B0)     14       10       55       474      S73      674       773      972      972
Caital Revnus                                       186       97      273      161      308      154      233      243      253       264      276      290
brrouing                                         66       50      217        93       69       55       79       76       73       67       66        62
Other                                           120       47       56        69      239       99      154      167      190      197      210      229
Capital Expediture                                  124     137      302       314      445      62       670      769      745      700       65      623
Dbt Srvice                                       94       77      124       193      245      208      271      303      270      225       90      175
Oter                                             30       60      17        121      200       19      399      466      475      475      464      448
Cpital Srpls/deficit                                62       140)     (29)    (1531    11371    (4731    (437)   (526)    14923    (436)    (379)    (3)
Overall hrplusJdeficit                               2        2      (109)      (53      43       62       37       47      182      337      4         639
Dbt Serwvice as 2 of Total Reenues               21.711   13.600   13.07!   16.362   12.021   5.962    7.79Y    7.47!   5.932    4.32!   3.29!    2.U74
Capital Expeditur  as I of Total Revenues        29.64!  24.55    31. 2!   26.61!   21.041   17.67!   19.27!   19.96!   16.089   13.43!   11.2!   9.77
Total Expenditur  as I of Total Rerem s          100.461  99.64   111.49!  100.42!  97. 99    99.25!   99.94!  99.40    96.7 On    93.54!  91.4n   99.992
Table 2: TUXPAN                                             ANfl 5.2
Proifrua Financial Appraisal: Tuzpan,Nay.
Projected uithaut ProjKct
(cillones de puossl                               195      1986     1997     1998     1999      1990
Current Rvenues                                    109       126     142       159      176      193
Current Expenditures                                94       109     124       140      155      170
Current Surplusldeficit                             15        17      19        19       21       23
Capital Revenues                                     7        0        9        10       11       12
Borrowing                                         0        0        0        0         0        0
Other                                             7        9        e        10       11       12
Capital Expenditures                                 3        4        4        5         5        t
Debt Service                                      0        0        0        0         0        0
Other                                             3        4        4        5         5        6
Capitai SurplusIdef:cit                              4        4        5        5         6        6
Overall Surplus/deficit                             19       21       23       24        27       29
hebt Service as 2 of Total Revenues               0.O0     0.00!   0.00!    0.00!    0.0!   0.00%
Capital Expeditures as 2 of Total Revenues        2.59!   2.99!   2.65!   2.96!    2.67!   2.9Y3
Total Expnditures as I of Total Revans           83.62!   94.33=   94.7    95.90!  95.S6    95.95S
Project Impact (36 sillones de pesos
expnditurel
Capital lavestment                                  19       19
Dbt Service                                        9.5      7.9      4.3      3.9      3.2       2.7
Principal                                                   3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6       3.6
Total Project Impact                              26.5    29.4       7.9      7.4       6.0      6.3
Financed by:
anobras Lon                                         19       19
Dispouble Income  (acuelated surplus/deficit)       19       21       23       24        27       29
With Project Overall Surplus/Deficit              10.5      9.6    15.1       16.6    20.2      22.7



-64 -
(RaEct fr  gpat   -deu)
MA - YI3hJSL O
llUmlal ad rA.AtIUMIa Bvabzatgm
Iluddpulity ___________________               Doe oi Final Evahugicu
A. Bnc ludB.-u Be.  Pd-                                                     Rik      Year
w~azpp1siy               C   ) ___
()_
Total pqulmi (1970)                            SDI-la                    C   ) 
Total P     W 11 (19(0)
Projeete papul*iai(U                                                             _ _
Projectedl puli(1) 
p--Ls__r                                       Mes (rail or *bol )le
^uidpaipy ain (1980)  _h2                      SIai&.                           ___)
Net daeity of _albo p (ntm)                                              () )
(190)                __Cil vml si                               t       (   )
Palmdi mr   WbY Imi              Z oi Totl   Otbr/-plme  efy   (            )
Primy ecnide .tacdfin in                                                        __t_3
C. 1 Raff to be zemdted ftgr&2lw _ 331
For ez         daF Epmt for_                      19
14depdal *zuw r                   . 19
C.2 Tmica Atistuvm  R.diw   for Pb1es  PnSm
5~~~~~~~~I-   I-[_le
Pbut                 Nmbw    ~IsdOzw  ~OrJdM              caftrct
1. _z                2        10/85       06/86
2. Plnmdlf 1 prt     1       09/85        09/86          /PP/BmgwS
3.
4.



- 65 -
A 5.3
Pep 2 of 3
a MA
D. ZdaLk  Arei  for  frt    PrMq  'E  ft&Lmft  _mmt ls to be  de by 1ualm   1Ten.
Prkgru P Orit)
FPmLal M      _sg t              (C)
Credit  mawt                     ()
tmicip.l Adenitratl(n.
Thdmicnl Serviee - Operational
e                      (  ~)
Pro,ject: Desig axM Preparation
E. FRnmxdat Imforauticn (Rood m' z aw 5 Mm tX 'o MM).
Yer (Speif)
(l)         (2)          (3)          (4)         (5)
-'TiB                            $__S        $            $            $           $
  Toes   (Iiquestos)_            _   _     _ _    _     _   _    _   _   _    _  _    _   _
J Tariff user, d6a    etc.
C-
.    Lixs ,   Pes,   etc.   (D era ii) __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
i Inweet                         _
. Sburfrg transfer
(pera !B
-Elqxture                      $S                          $           $           $
. MnratI  E_                        ___
* ctal Woz     d    um t  ____t
Tafers
. ebt  sw   i__
ute Enelue



- 66 -
AN=  5.3
PaOe 3 of 3
P   F(I  A
F. Fizuidal Akmiwis af the tbidil A              aimts is attacbed. The foladzg Is a auury:
1. Do   the umiclpality hbw  a Fizmcal InfomaUon SstM?
Yes  (    )      N (    )
2. Does gthe micipality hbw  an updated cadter?
Yes  (    )      No(    )
3. oeg the mmicipality habw an updated fees and tariffs systm?
4. Other obmmatns (secify)
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
G. PaRtlm   a n g       l       es of Fd erailmd/or Sttey   Pardp     the imfolAtaIo  this doziut
Ne o tIh  cme thi are_ prvde
1.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
4 .X ,_    _  _ _  _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _       _  _   _  _  _ _  _  _ _ __           _  _  _ _  _  _  _
?&l   Enls  doomt prvddl  the uzrdplity  Aidt                                th  ifomtin in this docni
(ony in ~etee are prvded).



f~~i i  :           i Xt---
'Ia                     I  tij!j,j1



- 68 -
Pae 2 of 4
Otbers (Speify)
________________._ ( )
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _  _  _ _ (     )
2.   Tica Project
*   Ted ud.c nl   P 1mm   _____ _________ ____-  .    (    )
. Tedmica         ____ __
u Unit Prices                                         (    )
C. Theal bst of PrJect
1. Ewselr  an i                                                     $_
Crnf1  AsLt1             for V ec  ds
2. Invett  (2.1 + 2.2 + 2.3)                                        $
2.1. Lax                 $
2.2. MaddI ry and Equipent $
2.3. Other (Specify) $
3. Direct costa (3.1+3.2+3.3)                                       $
3.1. C     astnx:tim and Materials
3.2. Labor (uber fore acomt utiizd)
3.3. Others (specify)
4.  Nstfor WosO ( + 2 + 3) (Bae aost)                                 $
5$ Price ConIzV nie                                                  $-
6. Ptysdsa1                                                          $    __I____
7. Sultot (4 + 5 + 6)                                                $
8.  -A (tm)                                                          $
9. MTA1 Cot (7 + 8)                                                  $
10. 12 for  qzpervisr                                                $-
11. Subto9    (9+ 10) 
12. Int3ests  wk dai  cz                                             $  _t_et
13. Cat         to   aztid (11 + 12)                                 $-



- 69 -
-5.4
Pp 3 of 4
D. 1ng    P1
1.  pEdcpal fiuxh      $
2.  EA?RAS low         $
3. State ad federal t fe   $
4. Other loans (speify) $
5. T1tal(1+2+3+4) S
E. Sdm&1fu  of  eit         iaois
Papumits WAdiel____________
Estlmtsl Nbesfuxd  of ~wo   _ __ __
Estlueted euplet1im oE     ____ __
Estheted date begqrg aperatitm of  dC_
F. Ofor the exmtLei of uolc
1 .R   dM the prject be axiutcted?
Torl bddibg (   )Fore rakm t()
Otber
2. Oor agmn  E diare  of project supervIsan
3. mediam to be  ued fo  st reovry
Fean ad tariffs       RentsALi paymt (   ) Ot
4. Ozgentzation or Agency In diarg of qmerat1mz ad mmintsmmi am  dxc iwim bowam oipetedk_____
C. FJnauial Awlnals (In cm oE rum                wdes 1 )
1. Sesivity ad rldk aalysi (Ccose             E_  )aw1ai.)
2. Vinod-l rae dE return (ewle               g cali*ti)
3. Other 0- quaitfiable proJect rIPI (encie ad dmibe tl)
R.  (Ei                         .                        ) Justtficatim (ew3m  for i,rlects of o    WZJD)
I. Requmatal Fimud2z Stmm
RR__-__-                                                 m               PS,



- 70 -
AM 5.4
P_ 4 of 4
J. Pziiu  for ftymmft   urolect
a)  WJAS' TeLclmi aLtam __Other a  cy_
b) cAtanc
(l)
c) Name__________________
K. Other ainrated fmfonim an! additiaml   nu    the project (1close)
Na. of pesmm in durp of prepaing dds do_                ___
ht_oizatc  of Hzdc1pl Presidet CN      )_)
L. Thfozitian to be auplte ewIuive,.ly by EANC
Date ofret___
Date of pprol of credit      __
GO&d of mappaml_________
Avx  of authorized credit ____________
Interest rate     __ _
Te__                       _ Year_ _
Period of g--
Eaqet. date of cum3ct_ ______
I  I!l wLthRd prevoly c     d if      M InPro Form "A'pat fi                      a       t
preas with preialy  axpa  infrntams in Pro FoP  "A"



- 71 -                   ANNEX 5.5
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
CONTENTS OF THE OPERATING GUIDELINES FOR THE FORTAMUN PROGRAM
1. The OPERATING GUIDELINES for the FORTAMUN Program consists of 2 parts:
Volume I which deals with concepts, procedures, etc. as detailed below,
and Volume II, which is an operational guidebook on MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL
ANALYSES prepared under the project for future use in Mexico on all
World Bank assisted projects in Urban Development (including Water
Supply and Solid Waste Management), in which municipalities ore the
beneficiaries of Sub-Loans.
2.  MAIN CONTENTS OF VOLUME I
a) Program Objectives and Contents
b) Procedures to be followed and Chronology
c) Model Pro Forma for Sub-Borrower Pre-Appraisal (A)
d) Model Pro Forma for Sub-Project Appraisal (B)
e) Model Sub-loan Agreements
f)  Procurement Guidelines
g) Recommendations on Cost Recovery Mechanisms
I) Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
i) Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
j) Index and Directory of participating Agencies
3. MAIN CONTENTS OF VOLUME II
a) Definition of Concepts and Data Requirements
b)  Analysis of Historic Data and Other Indicators
c) Financial Projections
d) Financial Impact of Projects (Internal Rate of Return: Net Present
Value; Cash Flows)
e)    Conclusions,  Observations,  and  Recommendations  to  Users  of
Handbook.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6.1
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
An Overview of Municipal Finance in Mexico
1.        Municipal governments in Mexico have two basic sources of
revenues, each equaling approximately 50% of total revenues in 1982. The
first is made up of municipal direct collections, over which municipalities
have full discretion, within legal limits, in their use. Local direct
revenues are:
- impuestos local taxes (mainly property taxes in the medium to
larger cities);
- derechos, including licenses, certificates and use permits;
- productos, (primarily service user charges including markets,
slaughterhouses, and water, sewer and drainage systems); and
- aprove_hanientos (which basically include all other local
revenues - not to be confused with direct Federal and state
subsidies which in larger aggregate tables are mixed with local
aprovechamientos); these mainly include rents, sale of mnicipal
property, interest, and miscellaneous income.
Together, these four categories accounted for 45% of total municipal
revenues channeled through municipal budgets in 1982.
2.        The second group consists of two distinct categories.  The first,
direct Federal or state subsidies (8% of total revenues in 1982) and
municipal borrowing (4% in 1982) appear to represent a relatively small
amount of municipal financial activity. Not counted in the Federal
subsidies, however, are direct Federal and some state financing of
municipal infrastructure projects. SPP, for example, might finance a water
system project directly for a municipality without the funds ever appearing
in the municipality's budget. Estimates for the level of this type of
Federal financial assistance are difficult because 'municipal' projects are
not categorized distinctly from others, such as rural irrigation. However,
if added to municipal revenues, SPP estimates that the figure is from 25%
to 35% of total municipal revenues.
3.        The second distinct category is municipal revenue sharing in the
Federal  participaciones' fund (42% in 1982).  These were instituted in
1979 with two objectives. The first, was to discourage municipalities from
levying taxes on sales and produwtion, a Federal tax base also, in order to



- 73 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2
minimize double taxation of a revenue source. The second was
redistributive - to transfer resources from areas of higher commercial
activity to areas with overall lower resources. These transfers are on
formula basis, changed each year, with a hold-harmless provision - no
municipality will get less than it received the previous year. Once
participaciones are transferred to the municipality, the local government
has complete discretion on how this revenue source will be used. Thus,
participaciones are not truly a Federal subsidy, but are a formula
distribution of revenues managed by the Federal Government.
4.        During the 1977-82 period, the most striking trend in municipal
revenues was the rapid increase in participaciones as a proportion of total
municipal revenues. This proportion increased from 25% of total revenues
in 1977 to 42% in 1982. This increase in relative proportion resulted from
an average annual rate of growth of 33% (constant pesos) for
participaciones, while total revenues were growing at only an 18% annual
rate. Impuestos, derechos, productos, and aprovechamientos grew at the
relatively lower rates of 9%, 12%, 3%. and 15% respectively, over the same
time period.
5.        Caution must be exercised in interpreting these trends, however.
The participaciones fund is made up of revenues that once were local
own-source revenues, collected by all of the large municipalities and many
of the smaller ones. To prevent double taxation, the Federal government
took over these sources in 1979 and replaced them with a revenue sharing
program that insures at least no relative losses to municipalities.
Thus, while it no longer is a local own source revenue in the same sense as
the property tax, for example, participaciones should not be counted a
direct Federal subsidy.
6.        In summary, the 1977-82 period presented a significant shift from
strictly local tax resources to a large role for a revenue sharing
program. This occurred largely by the Federal government's consolidating
previously local taxes on production activities and establishing a
revenue sharing program. This permitted some degree of redistribution and
improved the efficiency of overall public sector taxation.
7.        More recent changes in Federal policy and legal requirements will
improve the revenue generating capacity of municipalities. Modification of
Article 115 of the Federal Constitution provides the legal instruments for
substantial increases in municipal own-source revenues. These include the
transfer of the property tax (impuestos) and water and sewer system
(produc_.os) authority and administration from the states to
municipalities. Municipalities also have considerable potential for
borrowing. Since 1980, aggregate municipal borrowing has been less than
aggregate cash reserves. This conservative municipal fiscal policy has
resulted in a reduction in the amount of municipal services that could have
been produced if municipalities had taken a higher financial leverage
position. On the other hand, the period under analysis was one of high
Inflation and extremely high nominal interest rates, so it may be judged



- 74 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 3
rational for municipalities to have adopted low leverage policies. In
addition, most municipal personnel in smaller cities, and many in the
medium sized cities, are not professionally trained in either municipal
management or finance and have culturally influenced biases against
borrowing. Their aversion to borrowing can be attributed at least in part
to their lack of training and to a lack of awareness of the potentially
sound business reasons why borrowing to finance municipal capital
infrastructure is a good practice for most municipalities.
8.        On the expenditure side, there have been less significant shifts
in categories than observed on the revenue side. Total expenditures
increased at the rate of 12.4 percent in real terms from 1977-1982, a rate
of growth consistent with State and Federal trends over the same time
period. Gastos administrativos (administrative expenses) and deuda publica
(debt service) increased at rates slightly less than the average, while
obras publicas (public works) and transferencias (municipal transfers to
benevolent organizations) increased slightly more than the average.
9.        Both revenue and expenditure accounts emphasize a line-item
approach to budgeting, and little program budgeting takes place. These
accounts currently provide little insight into current versus capital
budgets, or into the relative importance of maintaining the flow of
services from the present capital stock versus expanding the capital stock
to serve new beneficiaries.
10.       Overall, municipal revenues have grown faster than expenditures
(average annual rates of 18% and 12% in real terms, respectively) and
municipal borrowing has maintained a constant proportion of total
revenues. Thus, the resources and the borrowing capacity are sufficient to
support increased capital investment to improve the quality of municipal
services and to expand their coverage. In addition, the very low growth
rate in user charges (productos) of only 3% per year leaves a financing
source for capital services relatively untapped at the present time. The
main obstacles to additional capital investment have been inadequate
ounicipal management capacity and the correlated lack of understanding of
the potential for utilizing credit of finance capital investment rather
than strict lack of resources. For those municipalities who do consider
borrowing, the broad array of programs, interest rates, and applications
processes discourages participation in available municipal credit programs.



- 75 -
ANNEX 6.2
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
BANOBRAS FINANCES, ACTIVITIES AND FUTURE ORIENTATION
Backcground aud Constitution
1.        BANOBRAS is the acronym of Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos (National Bank for Public Works and Services). It was established
in 1933 as a National Urban Mortgage and Public Works Bank, but in the in-
tervening years, its constitution and activities have been modified from
time to time. BANOBRAS' most recent Organic Law was enacted in 1980, but a
decree of July 1985 specifies a number of changes in its constitution and
field of action (paras 17-18 below).
2.        BANOBRAS' capital was fixed under the 1980 Organic Law at 5
billion pesos (increased in 1984 to 10 billion), divided into four catego-
ries; Series A, which must represent at leant 51% of capital, held by the
Federal Government; Series B, bearer bonds for subscription by the public;
and Series C and D (less than 1OZ of total capital), available respectively
to Federal Government agencies and local authorities (States and munici-
palities, together with the Federal District).  The C and D series cannot
be transferred or pledged without BANOBRAS' approval. Under the 1985
Decree, however, only two categories of shares are contemplated, Series A
(66%) and Series B (34%).
3.        Under the 1980 Law, BANOBRAS was managed by a board of eight
directors, two from each group of stockholders, with the Secretary of the
Treasury as president. The Federal Government, acting through the Treasury
Secretary, has the right of veto over board decisions or stockholders' re-
solutions if it considers these inconsistent with governuent financial and
monetary policy.
Activities
4.        BANOBRAS operates under the general provisions of the Regulatory
Law for Public Service Banking and Credit. Under its 1980 Organic Law, its
authorized fields of activity comprise mainly the financing of services in
the public sector, especially urban infrastructure in areas of urban, tour-
ist, port and housing development (including low income housing) and trans-
portation by sea, river, air and land. It can act as a financial agent or
technical adviser to the Federal Government, the Federal District, states
and municipalities in planning, financing and executing works and services
of a public or social nature. BANOBRAS is authorized to guarantee securi-
ties issued by other public authorities, and issue guarantees to Mexican
companies carrying out public works projects abroad, in order to stimulate
the export of technology; and to carry out all the activities of a
commercial bank.



- 76 -
ANNIEX 6.2
Page 2
5.        BANOBRAS is empowered to contract directly for external loans and
credits, as well as for local credit lnstruzmnts, and the only security
required is a deposit with the Central Bank equal to 4% of the value of
fixed-term securities lssued. Loans advanced by BANOBRAS may be secured on
real estate, cash reserves and revenue resources of the public service con-
cerned; but in the case of loans to state and unnicipal agencies, BMNOBRAS
is aloe required to carry out appraisals to satisfy itself that the obliga-
tions under the credit can be met without prejudice to other services of
the borrower. BANOBRAS may not make loans to non-residents, or for
purposes not authorized by its Organic Law, nor may it invest in companies
with unlimited liability.
6.        The table belcw shows the sources of funds raised by BANOBRAS
during 1982-84, a'l expressed in constant 1984 pesos, to eliminate the
effect of local inflation. The figures show clearly the down-turn after
1982 as a result of the Federal Governuent 's austerity program, and an in-
creased recourse to bond issues, to compensate in part for the reduction in
loans and loan repaylnts. Part of BANOBRAS' external debt was restruc-
tured in 1983. As part of this restructuring, the Federal Government
assumed all exchange risk liabilities. A formal agreewunt was also reached
in late 1983 by which the Federal Government guarantees all loans from
BAMOBRAS to State-owed Institutions.
Table 1
BANOBRAS - Sources of Funds 1982-84 (billions of constant 1984 pesos)
1982       1983       1984
Loans                                   314.6       76.5       46.4
Loan Repayments                         198.6       55.4       65.0
Bond Issues                              15.6       24.2       40.7
Net Checking and Savings Deposits         3.2        3.3       14.9
Profits and Equity Increases              6.7       16.8       33.7
538.7      176.2      200.7
7.        BANOBRAS prepares annually a 5-year lending program, which is
submitted for approval by the Federal Government and if necessary adjusted
in the light of the latter's investment policies and priorities under the
National Development Plan.
Financial Performance
8.        The table below shows BANOBRAS' balance sheets and income state-
ments, 1982-84, in current pesos. BANOBRAS made a modest surplus in each
of these years, rising to 4.7 billion pesos in 1984, out of which 1.0
billion was paid as dividend (10C on the nominal value of stock).
BANOBRAS' accounts are audited annually by recognined external auditors,
whose reports are made available to the World Bank.



- 77 -                 ANNEX 6.2
Page 3
Table 2
A - BANOBRAS - Sumary Balance Sheets 1982-84 (Audited)
(Billions of Pesos)
ASSETS                                     1982          1983       1984
Central Bank deposits                 5.0          7.6         17.1
Other Bank & Cash Balances            2.0          1.7          4.9
Securities and Term Deposits         11.8         22.2         39.7
Loans                               524.5        940.3      1,309.3
Accounts Receivable, Real Estate
& Other Balances                     45.3         77.2         85.9
588.6      1,049.0     1,456.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Deposits, Short Term Liabilities
and Accruals                         68.0        137.6        127.6
Debt-Federal Govt. & Agencies       126.6        125.5       220.4
-Mortgage Bonds and Other
Term Liabilities                63.4        102.4        146.5
-Banks                          320.5        671.8       939.3
578.5      1,037.3     1,433.8
Equity - Capital                      5.0          5.0         10.0
- Reserves & Retained
Earnings                     5.1          6.7        13.1
10.1         11.7        23.1
588.6      1,049.0     1,456.9
B -BANOBRAS - Summary Income Statements 1982-84 (Audited)
(Billions of Pesos)
Interest, Dividends & Com,issions          84.1        150.1        173.5
Other Income (net)                          0.8          2.4          0.9
8__-9       152.5       17_4_.4
LESS:  Interest and Comnissions Paid       76.5        139.5        154.9
Operating Expenses                   7.3          9.6         12.2
Taxes and Employee Profit
Sharing                              0.5          2.0          2.6
Net Earn0151.1             4.7
. Net Earnings                              0.6          1.4          4.7



- 78 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 4
Lending to Local Governments
9.        BANOBRAS makes advances to states and municipalities and for
their agencies through several 'windows or lines of credit, as follows:
FIFAPA  (Fondo de Inversiones Financieras para Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado - Water Supply and Sewerage Investment
Furd). This fund, the resources of which can be lent
only to municipal or state water companies, operates as a
national program, primarily directed at medium size
cities, but has hitherto lent to cities over 100,000
population (excluding the three largest cities of Mexico
City, Guadalajara and Monterrey). It has been supported
by three Bank Loans (1186-ME, 1913-ME, and 2281-NE),
totalling US$265.3 million. The latter two are active
currently.
PACDU   (Programa de Accion Concentrada para el Desarrollo Urbano
de la Zona Costera del Golfo e Istmo de Tehuantepec -
Concerted Action Program for Urban Development in four
Gulf States), intended for a variety of urban infrastruc-
ture investments, in support of which Bank Loan 1990-ME
(US$164 million) was approved.
FOMUN   (Fondo Fiduciario Federal de Fomento Municipal - Federal
Trust Fund for Municipal Promotion) is another national
program for general urban development, intended mainly
for smaller municipalities and supported by two loans
from tne Inter-American Development Bank, totalling US$80
million.
BANOBRAS' ovn urban development program, available to any size or
type of municipality. However, the relatively high
interest rates applied have resulted in its loans having
been mainly concentrated in the largest cities.
10.       The current cost of loan funds in Mexico is about 57% but
BANOBRAS lends at lower Lates depending on the fund and purpose (thus,
water supply loans may be at 10% under FOMUN, but 25% under FIFAPA; under
BANOBRAS' own program, the average is also about 25%).
11.       The table below shows the distribution of BANOBRAS lending 1982-
84, all expressed in constant 1984 pesos. It again mirrors the downturn
after 1982, especially in loans to federal agencies. Loans to states and
nunicipalities decreased in real terms but increased as a proportion of to-
tal lending; loans for water supply and sewerage, however, show a sharp in-
crease in 1984 and this trend may accelerate as a result of the decentrali-
zation of responsibility for this service.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 5
Table 3
BANOBRAS Credits 1982-84
(Billions of Constant 1984 Pesos)
A - Distribution of Credits
1982      1983      1984
Federal Government and Agencies                206.1      63.7       39.2
es and Muaicipalities (excl. credits
under People's Housing Fund)                 47.4      22.9       29.8
Other                                           69.2      37.8       58.1
322.7     124.4     127.1
B - Purpose of Credits to States & Municipalities
Water & Sanitation                               7.5        6.7      17.1
Markets                                          1.4       0.5        2.3
Slaughterhouses                                  0.5       0.1        0.2
Electrification                                  -          0.3       0.4
Paving and Urbanization                          6.4       3.7        3.3
Transportation                                   -         -          2.8
Housing                                          0.8       0.3        1.7
Other Services                                  30.8       11.3       2.0
47.4      22.9      29.8
Financed from:
FIFAPA                                  4.5       3.3       7.5
PACDU                                   0.5       3.7       3.5
FOMUJN                                  1.9       0.7       1.3
BANOBRAS' own program                  40.5      15.2      17.5
47.4      22.9      29.8
12.       The total of credits authorized in 1984 was 55.6 billion pesos of
which nearly two-thirds was for water supply and sanitation (33.2 billion
pesos).
Other Activities in Collaboration with World Bank
13.       BANOBRAS has been the channel for investment of World Bank loans
in a nuuber of projects, other than those mentioned above. In all,
BANOBRAS has acted as financial intermediary in ten Bank projects. Total



- 80 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 6
loans approved to date for MANOBRAS amount to some US$1,225 million, ofl
which about US$450 million has been disbursed. With the exception of the
FIFAPA loans whose beneficiaries are water companies, most of which are
selected and coamitted during project preparation, BANOBRAS has had
difficulty in municipal sector loans (for example, 1990) in generating
Interest in the programs. Although a variety of circumstances may account
for this, two factors seem to dominate - the lack of promotion of these
loan programs and the complexity of the application process.
14.       BANOBRAS historically has not been a major lender to municipalit-
ies. It is unaccustomed to promoting municipal-related loan program;
rather, it has adopted a rather passive role in the municipal sector, pro-
viding information to municipalities about possible loan programs and their
terms and conditions.
15.       BANOBRAS' major loan programs to municipalities to this point
have presented a confusing array of interest rates and terms. As noted in
paragraph 10, loans for the same purpose (water supply) may vary from 10Z
annual interest to 25% annual interest for FOfUN and FIFAPA, respectively.
Overall, the lowest interest rate is ln the PACDU program (3% to 5%) for
production activities with the FIFAPA water loans at the highest. Where
more than one program is available to support a particular municipal re-
quest, there has been no policy for determining which program to select.
16.       Finally, the processing time in BANOBRAS' various programs
excluding FIFAPA has been a decided deterrent to municipal borrowing. The
average time taken from the initial application to final approval has been
10 months, and from up to 24 months before the first installment is
released. Corrective actions in each of these areas are necessary to get
BANOBRAS' municipal loans o. an effective track. These are discussed in
paragraph 20 below.
Future Orientation of BANOBRAS' Operations
17.       The government decree issued in July 1985 amends the status of
BANOBRAS from a 'Sociedad Anonima' (limited liability company) to a "Socie-
dad Nacional de Credito, Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo" (National
Credit Institution and Development Bank) as from August 1, 1985. A new
Organic Law is under preparation, to give effect to the change in
orientation of BANOBRAS' activities implied in the new status.
18.       The intentions behind the new legislation reflect the govern-
ment's desire to reshape financial institutions for the more effective im-
plementation of its National Program of Development Finance 1984-88; under
this program, the federal authorities intend Mexican financial institutions
to focus their activities on modernizing and reinforcing the basic infra-
structure, in order to maxmize productivity.
19.       In pursuance of this policy, BANOBRAS will become a multipurpose
I'eelopment bank, initiating and preparing projects itself (including the
necessary studies). At present, BANOBRAS is only partially involved in
appraisal and supervision of Investment projects. It will in future be



- 81 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 7
able to issue bonds specifically ear-marked to individual sectors or pur-
poses, and generally increase the volume of credit available to states and
municipalities. In this way, it is hoped to overcome the deficiencies of
these authorities in infrastructure and urban equipment, housing and trans-
port. As part of the change of direction, BANOBRAS is likely to gradually
divest itself of commercial banking activities.
20.       Recognizing the limitations of its current programs for states
and municipalities, BANOBRAS has undertaken a complete review of its
various windows, their terms and conditions, and its program of stimulating
municipal development. A preliminary proposal has been prepared, in draft
form (not yet reviewed), to revise the interest rate structure, the maximum
amount of any particular project that can be financed, and the repayment
terms. Four categories of project types, five city types, and two to three
urban-rural classifications within each city type have been suggested as
the categories for determining interest rates. This unfortunately would
lead to a complex administrative program since there would be as many as 52
different interest rates. In addition, 25 different repayment periods
would apply, depending on type of loan and type of municipality.
21.       "or BANOBRAS' state and municipal programs to be successful, con-
siderable simplification of the structure (interest, terms) is necessary.
In addition, a program for simplifying the processing time and for pro-
moting municipal borrowing for capital investments is needed to get the en-
tire program moving. Finally, BANOBRAS should be encouraged Lo renegotiate
most of its state and municipal portfolio financed by IBRD, IDB and other
agencies to develop a consistent structure and policy.
22.       There is little doubt that BANOBRAS has the potential to carry
out the mandate conferred on it, and equally little doubt that it has
operated successfully in the past. The new responsibilities, however, will
demand an even more dynamic approach to preparing, evaluating and super-
vising investment projects, without which there would be a risk that
BANOBRAS might relapse into a mere passive channel for funds. Its manage-
ment, therefore, supported by the SHCP, intends to revise the staff
structure to permit increased activity in, and improved capacity to offer,
technical assistance in support of the government's policies of
decentralization and social development.



- 82 -                            ANNEX 6.3
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Matching Grants and Impact on the Fund (FORTAMUM)
1.        The project will establish an investment fund (FORTAMUN) in
BANOBRAS capitalized by two sources. The Bank loan will provide US$18
million and the Government of Mexico will furnish US$18 million for a total
investment fund of approximately US$36 million. The available capital will
be disbursed to municipalities through a combination of loans and grants.
The grant portion of the fund will be used to take into account the
financial capacity of different municipalities, with those financially
better off municipalities eligib'e for no or low matching grants and poorer
municipalities with serious service deficits eligible for a higher matching
grant. The actual distribution of matching grants is still to be
negotiated with the GOM; however, as a result of analyses conducted for
appraisal, the mission strongly recommends that the overall investment fund
be operated at approximately 85% loan and 15% grant.
2.        Three scenarios for the operation of the fund have been modelled
to assess its characteristics. The scenarios vary in the overall
proportion of the fund consisting of grants and the distribution of those
grants among the five classes of municipality. Four types of loans are
considered in the simulations: water and drainage, markets, urbanization
and other. For analysis purposes, the distribution of the fund among these
four loans types and among the five classes of municipalities followed the
1983-current history of the FO(UN (Annex 6.2, para. 9) program as the best
available estimate of the probable distribution of actual projects. The
average size of each of these loan categories was based on BANOBRAS'
current lending for similar projects.
3.        Initial simulations focused also on assessing the effects of
varying interest rates. During the course of appraisal, however, agreenent
was reached to work with a uniform interest rate across all loan and city
types, a change that will reduce the current confusion in BANOBRAS'
numerous program options for municipalities (currently, there are iI excess
of 50 different interest rates to municipalities under various BANOBRAS
funds). Consistent with current policy options under review in BANOBRAS,
the mission has also recomuended to BANOBRAS that the other loan programs
be modified to a single, uniform interest rate.
4.        Consistent with the terms of the General Interest Rate Agreewint
(GIRA), the one interest rate will be tied to the average market rate c'



- 83 -
ANNEX 6.3
Page 2
interest (CPP). At the time of appraisal (August 1985) that CPP rate was
57%. With the percent of CPP established at 67%, as of that date, the
actual interest rate would be 38%. Under the terms of the GIRA, the
percent of CPP will rise to 80% by 1987. At that time, the interest rate
issue will be reexamined. If the rate of inflation has fallen as expected,
the BANOBRAS will be encouraged to shift to a positive, m*rket rate of
interest. For purposes of the appraisal, positive interest rates have been
assumed beginning in 1989.
5.        For the three simulations, the sumary assumptions are as
follows:
% Matching Grant
City Type               1       2       3
I                     152     5%     0%
II                     25%    15%      5%
III                    35%    20%    10%
IV                     50%    25%    25%
V                     75%    65%    30%
Weighted Average           50%    33%    16%
I/  Interest Rates:  67% CPP in 1985 increasing to 80% in 1987 and reaching
a floor of 15% actual interest by 1989 for initial loans under the
program.
1/ Inflation Rates: 64% in 1985 to 7% in 1989 and thereafter.
I/ Source: LCPMX.
6.        The simulations were conducted twice, first with the initial
lending to municipalities and subsequent repayments the only
consideration. This first simulation illustrates the decapitalization of
the fund over a fifteen year period due to the combined effects of
inflation and the interest rate being held to 80% of market rates.
7.        Table 1 illustrates this decreasing value of the fund and its
conseqaent decapitalization through the period to year 2,000, given the
three scenarios.



- 84 -                  MX 6.3
Page 3
8.       Table 1 also illustrates the same fund operation with each year's
municipal loan repayments reinvested at the assued 152 interest rate. As
can be seen from the graph, the fund shows a steadily increasing growth
rate through the year 2,000, with the Initial size and the overall total
varying according to the matching grant formula variations.
Impact of Implementation Period
9.       With reinvestment of the fund, at positive market rates, the fund
increases its capitalization over tine, as Table 1 illustrates. For
project planning purposes, two different implementation periods were
considered -- a four year and a nine year period. The effects of these
different implementation schedules are illustrated in two ways. Table 2
takes Scenario III (from preceding tables and Table 1) and plots the two
implementation periods through fifteen years (in constant pesos). There is
a sizeable impact of stretching implematation from four to nine years as
measured by the number of municipalities that might be able to borrow.
Until 1992, roughly half as mny muicipalities will be able to participate
in the fund under the nine year implementation as under the four year.
After 1992, the number of mnicipalities participating begln to converge.
Additional Capitalization of the Fund
10.      Table 2 assumes only the initial capitalization of the fund.
After tie initial lending to approximately 340 municipalities, relying only
on the fund's earnings (repayments from the first 340) restricts the
ability Gf the fund severely. Additional capitalization within the first
five years of the fund is essential in ordtr to have a significant impact
on mnmicipal development. Based on the analysis of sample mmicipalities
(see Appraisal Methodology in Annex 5.2), mny of those in category IV,
like the Tuxpan example, are able to afford loans in the 35 million pesos
(US$140,000) range. Thus, additional capitalization of the fund at a very
conservative estimate of $100 million within five years would seem to be
needed to meet basic mimicipal borrowing requirements at the present
levels.
Financing Polics
11.      In addition to its role in meeting municipal borrowing needs, the
fund also has a major impact on policy. The fund noves BANOBRAS from a
currently unwieldy municipal lending program, rendered mainly ineffective
by the administrative complexity of more than 50 interest rates, to only
one Interest rate formulation. In addition, it moves BANOBRAS from fixed
rates of interest substantially below the mrket rate toward positive
market rates of interest. Finally, it establishes the fund as a
self-sustaining, revolving fund.
Monitoring Performance
12.      Fund performnce will be monitored in relation to Table 2. Once
a mtching grant formula has been negotiated, a recalculation of the



- 85 -
ANNEX 6.3
Page 4
financial flows varying the inflation rate assumptions will be used to set
a perforuance range for the fund. The specific loan conditions vll
require reexamination of interest rates in 1988-89 toward the policy of
positive interest rates (in relation to the urket rate) after the
inflation rate falls below 15Z. In addition, BANOBRAS vlll be required to
calculate seniannually the average, minimum and _ xiuzu times for loan
processing from the initial application receipt to first dlsbursement to
ensure improveuent in the processing tie.  Finally, as actual detand for
the loan program is ascertained on an annual basis, preparation could begin
for an additional input into the fund.



MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Alwatt Loan Scenados
Wffh and Wthout Relnesment
4.0
3.5-
3.0-
j2.5-
z2o   -                                                                 ,,0,,,                                                                                    oh
12'5ie ... ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....... gO . ::e*Oem*u ...... 
1.0
0 L
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000      2001
- m     Im   R eitmhd   i            -1           wm cut Resnt i 
6be-o*eee Reuwedtnt2                   -    _-    W      R9hwut Reh ftwent2
sRlhehtment 3                  -      'thout Reknwsrent3                                                       ww  Bw*-3M09.2



MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Value of Loan Fund
(billions of constant pesos)
3.0
2.8                                                                                                                                      -
2.6 -        ---          Y oe  Irr enf atiotn 
24 _                     9 Yean Inv4nentation
2.2-lo  0
2.0                                                                                    =
1.8                                                                          0     o
1.6  -
1.4-
1.2-
0.4
0.2
1986                         1989                          1992                         1995                         1998
YhrId Ba*-2:3 0209



- 88 -
ANNEX 6.3
Yable-3
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Stusio I i Nhtirq  ms* total at ON of Fed
Distriutio  of proJim    is I.                     liter       I   utdz.  0 te
hued co 1964 ditfribtion               ou  I
of FM projts by city tpI Spj                             2         0         0          0  -
ad by tp    of Projet.                  Siu(vg)  5'      5      40.7      40.7       3M.
bts          96.6          0         0         0
Int-rt  is a mifon 67%                  S ran           I5       15%       1%         1is
of W Jldy, I,l OP a 5%)                 S OP            67%       67%       67%        6n
p II
Pcest  mtdsiq4 rat (a'u,:               * projs.        16         2         6          0
50.29            Siu(av)       5.5        40.7      40.7      3.L
Pt lut         678     61.O     16.l15         0
rh wi#td aerap intwrst                  S ran           25%       8%        2          2
rat  using thus assumuious              S OP            67%       67%       675        67%
peals:                                Group IiI
3.L195           *qjs.           26         4         10         0
Sizu(a)       5.5       0W         07       35
Total project mont I(pesos)             bt lst    S8I        10l5I2    264.5           0
L0170.                grant        35%        S S                 3%
S OP            67%       67%       675      6P
iotal projt _mount ()                 Group I
-Sa               * projs.        6E         a         1i         2
Sizs(aq)      5S.       40.7      40.7       35.1
Total mount lIt                         bt lent       1469     16528     36.3        3.8
(uilliois of pesos)                    S rant          50%        50D%      3%        Su
-617               SOP             67%       67%        67%      6P
Total  oult I0                         * proj*         3           6        12         2
(million of SI)                        Siz(av)       SL5       40.7         7      35.
91.07             bt  lu  0       2 st6a1 GO        12.1       104
% rant         73%        75%       75%       75%
TOtl        repid                       S OP            6;t       67        67%        PS
(million of *)
95.22
Total        repaid
(millm Cs de peos)
15741.5



- 89 -
ANNEX 6.3
Table 4
MIEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Suuwio 23 Ntchirq Brat Total at 33% of Fwd
Dimtrihutia of pojctu is                          Mater    Noltuet  thtauiz.    Other
bu    cm 194 distribution            or"  I
of FpM ojtu by city ty                 * proj.          2         0         0          0
d    typ of Proju-t.             '     ti.a(v)       55         40.7      40.7      3.B
AlS lst    107.35          0         0         0
tur d is a    iqfwo67%                 % grat           5%        5         5%         5%
of W  (July, 19f C  8 57)              % CPP           67%       67%        67%       67%
amp 11
PEren-t .tdiiu  ra*  (we):                projs.        16        2          6         0
33.29%           Sin(avg)      5L5       40.7       47        36.8
Ant lent     7654      69.19    207.57         0
Thu wiht   wrap inteuest                   rant        15i       15%        15%       15S
rate  hiqA th  us mptis                % CPP           67%       67%        61%       67%
equlss                                 rop 111
35.19%           * proiL         26         4         10         0
Sizo(avg)     56.5      40.7      40.7      36.8
Total projuct muet (polos)             lbS lut    1175.2    130.21       32L6          0
1017L4             5 grant          0%       20        20%       20%
S CPP          67%        67%       67%       67%
Total project wEst (S)                G.o.p IV
$3635                proju.        2         a        18          2
Siz=(ag)      565       40.7      40.7      36.8
TOa       t lust                       AS lu*    22035         244.2    5$. 42
(million of puw   *                    % grant         2S  25%             25%        2s
679042             % tP            67%       67%       67%       67%
Group V
Total mountloot                        Ip ojin.        34         6         12         2
(million of S) a                       Siu(avg)      565       40.7      40.7       3L6
94.25            abt lust    672.3       E.47    170.9        25.76
S grant        65%        6S 6%               65%
Total mm! rpad                         S CPP           67%       67%        67%       67%
(millions of O)
S76.54
Total must upid
fuillo..s de pin   2U)
21430.57



- 9o -
ANNEX 6.3
MEXICO                                        Table 5
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Sewrio 3m  Nt l inq  Dwit Total at 16.66% of Fw,
Ditrishti m of pqojit is                           Matr    Nmks  IhbmiL    Other
_uh  an I9S  distribution             Goup I
of FMUt pts         by city type          Pro.           2         0         0          0
ad J     ty  of Pojc.                   Si(v)         56.5      40.7       40.7      3.6
bdt lot        113         0         0         0
Inturt is a  ifo  67%                   %  raVt          0%        0%        0%         0%
of CPP (Jely, 19iE  CP a 57%)           % CP            67%       67%       67%        67%
p II
Pen  .tehiqgrut (an):                   O proji.        16         2         6          0
16.64%           Siz(av,)      5.5         0        40        366e
Ad let       a51.      77.33    231.99         0
l. wi*te   vep intrst                   % grat           5%        so        5%         so
rat  (atul u_but rat)                   % WP            67%       67%       67%        67%
Wausti                                .on"p III
3.19%               projs.       26         4         10         0
SiD(avu)     56.5       47          7       3
Ta projcd -_t (pesos                    Ant lnt.   13Z.1    14652    3563               0
1017L4             % grant         10%       10%        10%       10%
% CP w67%                 67%       67%       67%
Total projet      I (6)               Group IV
$3635             # proj.         52         a         to         2
Sie(av)       565       40.7      4         36l
Total mot lint                           st lent    2497.3    27676    6Z.71        62.56
(million of po)                         % grant         15%       15%       15%        15
84.41              % CIP           67%       67         67%       67%
6M v
TOSl        lott                        S prjn.         34         6         12        2
(million of *)                          Siz.(q)       5.5       40.7         7       36.6
S3.30             Pat lint    134.7    170.94    341.8        51.52
% 9,,t         30%        30%       30%       30s
Total mwut mpid                         % WP            67%       67%       67%        67%
(million of 6)
S61.67
Total mw_t rpid
(millo. de psos)
27067.12



z 1N                                                                                             illICt  aIUlpal l truzttk.asn  Prajct
,.Estlait   I t,  n,_5..t c, k.
(US $  0001
Project e__poomm_t_                               _           19                             1011 Itt7                       19              1991            1992             1993            1994               S           TOTAL         I M.A.C
L  lSlpl I f   Oers o     t
CCIII,                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,009                                                                                                                                     4
''  t   'l''"h lets                                 I,              i's           6'@Q               *u              m                                                                                              $  
tI"e  ttrit[fswer@                  9t31              5t              57              22               12                                                                                                                99
Pregres                  ~~~III            214             257              120              6II
Wight Atll                                 934 144                        I9                114             346                                                                                 0          s,22u                21
2. 2Kt U Cil k ohdst tC  I Pritlnl ktlvliti
-cum lal [tiff                                        114              ISO             to              III              14                                                                                               701               it
-emit lalgriats                                       III              42               93          31                  11                                                                                               311               It
ti-trtai  L2                               291              241             242             142              it                I                                               4 e                          1,e6 e11n
3. Eqipmt ad lktIwIl.                                     9f              240             2                                                                                                                               1,479              I
li-Ittl a 11-3)                          2,1n             1,907           2,42              7l              417                0               e               0                0               e           7,1n               in
flislca2 ti..                              107               32              35               3                2               0               I               0A              0                              27t              "I
Price catia.                                U                4              411             tot             Ill                0               4               0               I                I           1,121              In1
Total A                                  2,71            2,147            3,01              122             in                 0               0               0                                I           I,e22              m7
1. r    al ad ttatq Itiff k        l t
'    1   TraI.iq                                      447 U                            23 T             is                                                                                                             I,ff1               n
3. CubIcalr   k d   lucs m   Fo                                           1                 5               2                                                                                                                21               is
X  tetitirtl e sistuce S  F llSi          ~~II*            150             27                10              60                                                                                              t45               44
4mrt-ta rSt.dy tript                                   W .                              %                0              50                                                                                               312              Su
-kcscutnatlu  Fraii4 f4I U                                                          15,2m              511             342                                                                                            3,920               In2
l-tatal S.3 S42                                          1,043            1,7               443             452                0               0               0               0                0          4,M7                I
4. Iofwatt, Syttm  ad Stilt.,                            212              125             100               0                0                                                                                               37              WA
S. Eipialt ad ktIrlals                                   t11               is             2l                0                0                                                                                              22               9
lII-total a ll-St                        1,42            1,149            1,14              123             452               0                0               0               0               0           4,2122
ftrIcaclu tim.                              It                7               3               0               I                0               S               0               0                I o  ei
PrIce coatl.                                52             17              S32             201             170                0               S               0               0                0             22               221
Total                                    1,144             ,n1            2,097             924             422               0                                0               0                a          7,0                 U
C. IsfraItroctorm,  d Rlatled Iitamto                      :,270           5,49            4,710           9,150           10,371           9,150           4,10            4,270            3,00           2,44U          11,6K                325
2     tl      o  I, at                                   1112 112                        122              262             112             112             112              212            122              122           1,'24               n
Pravollef fipnuo ~           ~27                          2 27             27              27                      2        7               21              27              27              27              274               99
l-Ntotal I 112)                            210             212              210             210             210              210            212              210             210             210            2,97 
Prm-  ."tI.                                  7               2S              39               i              19                              110             124             3I              IS5              Ul t
rdd  I                                     217             232             249              2U              39              306             320              S3              149             s5            2,2 M
.nW   hull"  Citti                       0,2n            9,155          11,174            0,61           2I,440           9,340           4,30             4,410           3,20            2,i50          74,9                  n
pli4stcAl  ostts.                          tit               19              a                3               2                0               0               I               I                S             216 9
price autih.                               to9             S"               Hi              460             40                94             II0             124             I39              IS            2,67               II
Tttal ProJKt C1ts                        S,f;'           9,s            12,051           11,2U4          11,15,           9,414           4,420            4,404           3,39            2,6M           W,0                  E ll



-92 -                                       AMf 7
.TaWre 7. P
Table 1: Sumeary of Project Costs
(5 Year Project mplementation 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s oo
Z FREIGN       I TOTIL
Project Component                                     LOCAL         FOREIGN           TOTAL       ERCHAIIGE     BSE C0STS
A. Municipal Staff Development                                                                                     I
1. Staff Training                                         5, 123.           103           5,226              22           6.991
2. Tehnical ASIs. I Promotional Activ.                    1,016               0           1,016               02          1.341
3. Equipmnt and Naterials                                   296           1,183           1,479              g02          1.951
SUf-TOTAL A                             6,435           1,296           7,721              171         10.191
3. Federal and State Stiff Development
1. Staff Training                                         1,051               0           1,051              0x           1.391
2. Training of Trainers                                      21               0              21              0x           0.03B
3. Technical Assistance and Training                       ,6                3             ,q                 9            .i
4. Information System. and Studies                        3,56               320          4,397Bo05
5. Equipmnt and Materials                                    40             162             2               90Z           0.27?
SUB-TOTAL B                             4,764           1,344           6,109              22Z          8.05S
C. Infrastructure and Related Investments                   45,750          15,250          61,000              25Z         90.392
D. Project Administration                                    1,049               0           1,049               0Z          1.393
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                   57,999          17,B79          75,979              242        100. 00Z
Physical Contingencies                     65             134             200              67?          0.261
Price Contingencies                     1,944             306           2,250              1t4          2.961
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    60,008          19,319          79,327              232        103.232
FINANCING PLAN - US  o000
Governaent of Mexico                   39,164               0          39,164
Bank                                   20,844          12,319          39,164
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Bank Loan                                    Bank Fiscal Year   US$ '000)
1997     1989                 1999            1990           1991
Annual                         7,004    9,475               10,143           B,705           3,837
Cumulative                     7,004   16,479               26,623          35,328          39,164
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:       MIA
1T
the prOJeCt costs are net of dutie~s and taxes.



- 93                                                                MM-
IC17R                                          MEXICO:  uNicipal Strngthemn  ProjKt                                              T bl*  .3
07-jan46                                                Estimated Instent Sd ule
[US5 s 000)
ProejKt C1ONuts                                          1996            1917            19              199            19%            TD1IL         I F.E.C
L  llicidl Staf kNl,^vent
1. Staf Training
Snior Officials                                     474             694           1,009                                          2,176               02
-id-led  Officials                                  251             433             638            426             228           1,976               01
-Training of Trainwrs                                38              59              97             22              12             219               Q2
-Deconceitratimn Progr                              171             214             257             129             96             955              121
Sub-total A.1                             934          1,400           1,991             576             326          5,226               21
2. TKchnical ksistance I Proeational Activities
-Increyntal Staff                                   184             194             14B             lit             74             701              o0
-Course Materials                                   111              63              93             31              17             315              O0
Sub-total A.2                            295             247             241             142              91           1,016              0a
3. Equipmt and Materials                               95f             260             260                                          1,479              90S
Sub-total A 11-3)                      2,19            1,907           2,492             719             417          7,721              17S
Physical centin.                          107             32              35               3               2            179             6f!
Price cantin.                             90             20e             475             201             157          1,121              1O0
Total A                                2,375           2,147           3,001             922             575          9,022              tn
S. Federal and State Staff Developmnt
1. Staff Training                                      447             290             235             79                           1,051               02
2. Training of Trainers                                  9               6               5               2                             21               OS
3. Technical ssistance and Fellowships
-Consultants                                        1o0             150             275             9               60             665              40I
-Shrt-tern Study Trips                               59              59             96              50              50             312             502
-Deconcentration Progra                             684             B55           1,026            513             342           3,420              122
Sub-total B.3                            B42           1.063           1,397             643            452           4,397              192
4. Inforation Systems and Studies                      212             125             100               0              0             437              BOI
5. Equipmet and Materials                              111              A5              26               3              0             202              go9
Sub-total E (1-51                       1,621          1,549           1,763             723             452          6,109              222
Physical contin.                           11              7               3               0               0              20             902
Price contin.                              52             167            332             201             170            922              212
Total B                                 1,60?          1,723           2,097             924             622          7,050              222
C. Infrastructure and Related Investaents               9,540          13,420          15,860         14,030           9,150          61,000              25Z
D. Project Aninistrat:in
LSalaries                                            192             192             182            192             '92             912               02
2.Traveling Expenses                                    27              27              27              2?             27             137               02
Sub-total 3 11-23                        210             210             210             210            210           1,049               02
Price contin.                              7              23              39              58              79            206               02
Total D                                  217             232             249             269            299           1,255              0N
Total Baseline Costs                  12,559          17,085          20,324          :5,681         ID,5'6          75,978              24!
Physical Cont:n.                         119              39              3                                2            200              672
Price contin.                             140            392             946             460            40,           2,250              141
Total Project Costs                   12,917          17,522          21.20B          16,144          !0,63;         79,327              232



-94 -                          AME 7
Mexico: Municipal Strengthening Project
Disbursement Schedule (9 years)
Calendar Year             Disbursement            Bank Fiscal
Semester Ending      Semester      Cumulative  Semester Year
June       1986             -           2,600      First FY87
December   1986          1,837          4,437    Second FY87
June       1987          3,036          7,472      First FY88
December   1987          2,398          9,871    Second FY8e
June       1988          2,706         12,577      First FY89
D)ecember   1988         3,014         15,591    Second FY89
June       1989          2,915          !B.507     First FY90
December   1989          - 816         21,323    Second FY90
June       1990         2,890          24,213      First FY91
December   1990          2,964         27,177    Second FY91
June       1991          2,664         29,841      First FY92
December   1991          2,364         32,204    Second FY92
June       1992          1,984         34,189      First FY93
December   1992          1,605         35,794    Second FY93
June       1993          1,378         37,172      First FY94
December   lry93         1,151         38,323    Second FY94
June       1994          1,000         39,323      First FY95
December   1994            677         40,000    Second.FY95
a/  Includes US$0.60 M retro-active financing (since Sept.
1, 1985) and US$ 2.0 M in Special Account established
upon loan effectiveness.
b/  Rate of disbursement reduced to recover Special Account
Jdvance. This reduction should not affect project completion
since a second project within the Municipal Strengthening
Program will have already started.



- 95 -                        ANEX 7
Table 7.5
Mexico: Municipal Strengthening Project
Disbursement Schedule (5 years)
Calendar Year             Disbursement            Bank Fiscal
Semester Ending       Semester     Cumulative  Semester Year
June       1986             -            4,100 al  First FY87
December   1986          2,904           7,004    Second FY87
June       1987          5,095          12,099     First FY88
December   1987          4,381          16,479    Second FY88
June       1988          4,841          21,321     First FY89
December   1988          5,302          26,623    Second FY89
June       1989          4,.69          31,292     First FY90
December   19B9          4,036          35,328    Second FY90
June       1990          3,348          38,675     First FY91
December   1990            489 b/       3,9,164    Second FY91
a/  Includes USSO.60 M retro-active financing (since Sept-
1, 1985) and US1$ 35 M in Special Account established
upon loan effectiveness.
b/  Rate of disbursement reduced to recover Special Account
advance.



- 96 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Programa de Fortalecimiento Municipal - Informe del Proyecto;
BANOBRAS/CEDADER; Agosto 1985.
Numero de Ocupantes por Puesto en Municipio3 Seleccionados - Anexo No. 1;
BANOBRAS/CEDADEM; Julio 22, 1985.
Cedulas de Requerimientos de Entrenamiento de los Puestos Tipo del
Ayuntamiento - Anexo No. 2; BANOBRAS/CEDADEM; Julio 22, 1985.
Relacion de Eventos de Entrenamiento por Puesto - Anexo No. 3;
BAROBRAS/CEDADEN; Julio 22, 1985.
Relacion de Eventos de Entrenamiento Clasificados por NIimero Progresivc -
Anexo No. 4; BANOBRAS/CEDADEK; Julio 22, 1985.
Clasificacion de Eventos y Entidades Capacitadoras que Participan - Anezo
No. 5; BANOBRAS/CEDADEI4; Julio 22, 1985.
Eventos de Entrenaziento Clasificados por Prioridad - Anexo No. 6;
BAROBRASJCEDADEN; Julio 25, 1985.
Netodologta Utilizada para Costear el Componente de Entrenamiento del
Programa  acional de Fortalecimiento Municipal - Anexo No. 7;
BAROBRAS/CEDADEM; Julio 15, 1985.
Caracteristicas del Instructor Municipal - Anexo No. 8; BANCBRAS/CEDADEM;
Mayo 21, 1985.
Instituciones Educativas y de Capacitaci6n Localizadas en Municipios
Seleccionados de Cinco Estados de la Repfiblica Mexicana - Anexo No. 9;
BANOBRAS/CEDADEM; Julio 22, 1985.
Identificaci6n de Necesidades de Entrenamiento en Municipios Seleccionados
y Resultados Obtenidos; BANOBRAS/CEDADEM; Julio 22, 1985.
Metodologia de Anilisis Financiero Municipal; Direccion General de Credito
Publico.
Reunion Nacional de Evaluaci6n de la Reforma Municipal; Presidencia de la
Repugblica - Direccion General de Comunicacion Social; Julio 4, 1985.
Sistema de Informacion del FORTAMUN; Gerencia de Sistlemas de Informacion y
Evaluacion; Agosto 19, 1985.
Participaci6n del Centro de Estudios Financieros en el Programa de
Fortalecimiento Municipal, 1986-1988; SHCP; Junio 1985.
Participaci6n de la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puzblico en el Programa
de Capacitacion; SHCP; Agosto 1, T9857



- 97 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Cursos de Capacitacion Otorgados por Distintas Instituciones - Anexo C -
Capacitaci6n SPP.
Curso Regional p ra la Elaboracion e Instrumentacion de Planes Directores
Urbanos de Centros de Poblacion - Anexo C - Capacitacibn SEDUE; SEDUE;
Abril 1985.
Metodologia para el Llenado de la Cedula 1 - Anexo C - Capacitaci6n SG;
Secretaria de Gobernacion - Centro Nacional de Estudios Municipales.
Investigaci6n sobre la Problematica Municipal Estudio Caso: 8 Estados de la
Rep6iblica Nexicana.
Politica General de Capacitacion; Secretaria de Gobernaci5n; Agosto 1985.
Cedula 1 - Programa de Fortalecimiento Municipal, Cursos de Capacitacion
Otorgados por Distirntas Instituciones; BAQOBRAS/CEDADEK; Julio 30, 1985.
Cursos del Componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional cuya Impartici6n se
Propone de Manera Inmediata; Julio 30, 1985.
Prioridades Regionales (Nivel Municipal) - Creditos Autorizados; B-NOBRAS
Fortalecimiento de Delegaciones Regionales - Propuesta de Entidades
Federativas Prioritarias para Instalacibn de Representaciones Estatales
BANOBRAS - GSIE/1985; BANOBRAS.
Programa Trianual 86-88 - Acciones Prioritarias (Tampico, Madero, Altamira,
Tampa, Pueblo Viejo, Morilillo, Tamos, Ver); SEDUE; 12/85.
Programa Financiero para Reconstracciin y Decentralizaci6n, Sector
Desarrollo Urbano; SEDUE; 12/85.
Frograma Financiero para Reconstrucci6n y Decentralizaci6n, Sector
Desarrollo Urbano - Anexos; SEDUE; 12/85-
Manual de Operaci6n (Municipal) Volumen I; Secretaria Tecnica - FORTAMUN.
Manual de Operacion Analisis Financiero) - Volumen II; Secretaria Tecnica -
FORTAMUN.
Programa Trianual 86-88 - Aguas Calientes. Ags; SEDUE.
Programa Trisnual 86-88 - Morelia, Mich.; SEDUE.
Programa Trianual 86-88 - Queretaro, Qro.; SEDUE.
Programa Trianual 86-88 - Tampico, Cd. Madero, Tamps. Moralillo, Pueblo
Viejo, Tamos, Veracruz; SEDUE



UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA
BAJA AFi.                    Nogaes.       --p r-   .            h S
&AtFORNlA,       
'  |          * .                                U I H    U \      U A
, A                                                                      E /                          p'.
-.     'OhhoU    Lo.I Gur/  .
: AJA              Ragha          C..,dd Ob.,.go.,o   F Ur  
-uP  -           . J   PortC<
N. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -.
sD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o XFr
' C ' uli  D U P A N G ?             "        L\
t LtoPz P0                             Durang            ZACA   A5
A  A.
-A
-IV;>jP/w\5/  Ur1. c   -
: -'    Ag9t,scoIi.resf >   . -(
MIEg1I      r    -  .K3
0. . 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {A
20~~UOEER                0       0
ZI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P, LES.0 0uaIC0   2110   300
_o_____*rr<_r#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                A _'
II'
Tb. ..h..a .~E'. ~ aO o-



w                                                     ,                                  III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[RD W:
AMER ICA
'    A                             t < -                      ~~~~M E X I CO
AR ct                                                                              Nationol capital
\ Ne 4 R-                                        _n,? tOe capitll%
:V I  I A                                                                                     0  > ...%y     Principal cities or towns
\! , ,g,PZ ..... Z > ~~~~~~~~~~-                                     Divide h ighwy
,   ' 5          8                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seletd moin roads
<Moncbzo ) <' - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roilroods
/ . t\F,;o~~'i                                H                                                   Principol airports
L    = - ; / t f  \  ^, Momwos                                       -.-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iinrernoricniol boundaries
%       \ \}(         X~~~~rA Jui PA s   i
.(CASC  j C . <,
,rrzs \ he~~is s> ;pic
f X      .            CC < / ~~ ~                  ~~t                                                           u rA_D N          <
4r-                                                                                                                            RO
U~~~s - o ew--)'o's--'X
TO~ ~                                       S- ;h T.   1                                                       !.d_ ,,
P_reoEc>lid  g                  ~,               j     GATEMABA-CO
GUERREROTpo)                                                                                   }HODUA
f:  IW f ,.i.~~~~~n o






