Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICL  USE ONLY
Rlet No. P-4246-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONALDE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C., I.B.D.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
March 5, 1986
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (MexS)
On February 24, 1986, the exchange rate in the controlled market
was USSI = Mex$431.80; the freemarket exchange rate stood at USS1 = Mex$470.00.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS      -    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(National Bank of Public Works and Services)
CECADE        -    Centro de Capacitacion para el Desarrollo
(Center for Development Training)
CEDADEM       -    Centro de Estudios, Documentacion y Asistencia para el
Desarrollo Mun$cipal
(Center for Studies, Documentation and Assistance for
Municipal Development)
CNEM          -    Centro Nacional de Estudios Municipales
(National Center for Municipal Studies)
EFF           -    Extended Fund Facility
FORTAMUN      -    Programa de Fortalecimiento Municipal
(Program for the Strengthening of Municipalities)
FRR           -    Financial Rate of Return
GIRA          -    General Interest Rate Agreement
INCAFI        -    Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion Fiscal (de la
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
(National Institute for Fiscal Training - belongs to
the Secretariat of the Treasury and Public Credit)
INDETEC       -    Instituto para el Desarrollo Tecnico de las Haciendas
(Institute for Technical Development of Public Assets)
MDF           -    Municipal Development 'Fund
ORs           -    Ouantitative Restrictions
SEDUE         -    Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
(Secretariat for TTrban Development and Ecology)
SG            -    Secretaria de Gobernacion
(Secretariat of the Interior)
SHCP          -    Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Secretariat of the Treasury and Public Credit)
SPP           -    Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(Secretariat of Programming and Budget)
TS            -    Technical Secretariat
TSU           -    Training Support Unit



- i -             FOR OFFICIL US ONLY
MEXICO
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
.Loan and Project Summary
Borrower      :   Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.,I.B.D.
TBANOBRAS)
Guarantor          United Mexican States
Beneficiaries :   Municipalities, and various federal and state agencies
(Staff Development and Organizational Strengthening
components)
Amount        :   US$40.0 million equivalent
Terms         :   Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rste.
Relending Terms:   The Peso equivalent of about US$30.5 million would be made
available to municipalities under subloans and grants which
would cover at most 80X of subproject costs. Subloans would
be made at interest rates specified in the General Interest
Rate Agreement (GIRA), and according to the following terms:
(a) roads, sidewalks, drainage, parks and recreation areas
- 5 years, including a grace period equal to the shorter of
the construction period or one year; (b) water supply, solid
waste infrastructure, municipal vehicle and equipment
maintenance workshops - 15 years, including a grace period
equal to the shorter of the construction period or four
years; (c) municipal markets, slaughterhouses, public trans-
port terminals and equipment - 10 years, including a grace
period equal to the shorter of the construction period or
three years; and (d) solid waste equipment and vehicles and
micro-computers and equipment - 5 years without a grace
period. For the Staff Development and Organizational
Strengthening components, and for Project Administration,
proceeds of the loan would be made available to the relevant
implementing agencies on a grant basis.
Project            The Government's program objectives are to improve the
Objectives and     utilization of human and financial resources and strengthen
Description:       institutions, particularly at the municipal level, to
increase the delivery of affordable and efficient urban
services. Within these overall program objectives, the
proposed project would: (a) strengthen federal and state
agencies in the area of municipal development through
provision of financial resources and effective training
programs; (b) strengthen the mui.icipalities' organizational,
Th dce hw a  tnoite tdbtnutdamnd may be ued by nrdbats only in the prformae
of their emd dudk. Is cute  may not othwie be disoed witout Wo*d B   a   I



- ii -
adMinistrative and financial management systems and
performance; and (c) assist municipalities in expanding and
upgrading urban infrastructure.
The project objectives would be achieved through the
implementation of the following components: (i) Municipal
Staff Development and Organizational Strengthening; (ii)
Federal and State Staff Development and Organizational
Strengthening; (iii) Infrastructure and Related Investment
Fund for Municipal Development; and (iv) Project
Administration.
Project Risks:     The major project risks are: (a) the inherent difficulties
in coordination; (b) the capacity and willingness of
BANOBRAS to make appropriate changes; and (c) the possible
loss of political momentum. The establishment of an
independent Technical Secretariat and Training Support Unit,
and the definition of clear roles, responsibilities and
procedures in the Operating Guidelines, are expected to
reduce difficulties in coordination. Previous urban and
water supply lending operations have been partially
constrained by problems within BANOBRAS. However, the
project addresses these issues. BANOBRAS' coordination of
the project preparation effort and the degree and rapidity
with which changes in policy have been processed have been
exemplary and indicate the management's and SHCP's
commitment to change. Finally, the Government will be
encouraged to accelerate implementation within the first
five years to obtain a quick feedback, and also benefit from
the momentum set in place by the present Administration.
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
{(US$'00°)
A. Municipal Staff Development
1. Staff Training                            5,123         103     5,226
2. Technical Assistance & Promotional
Activities                                 1,016          0      1,016
3. Equipment and Materials                      296      1,183      1,479
SUB-TOTAL A                               6,435       1,286     7,721
B. Federal and State Staff Development
1. Staff Training                             1,051          0      1,051
2. Training of Trainers                         21           0         21
3. Technical Assistance and Training         3,565         832      4,397
4. Information System and Studies                87        350        437
5. Equipment and Materials                       40        162        202
SUB-TOTAL B                               4,764       1,344     6,108



- iii -
C.  Infrastructure and Related Investments       45,750     15,250    61,000
D.  Project Administration                        2,097           0     2,097
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          59,047     17,879    76,926
Physical contingencies                           65        134        200
Price contingencies                           2,569        306      2,874
TOTAL PROJECr COSTS 1/                        61,681     18,319    80,000
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
(US$'000)       -
Government of Mexico                          27,800           0    27,800
Municipalities                                12,200           0    12,200
Bank                                          21,681     18,319    40,000
Estimated Disbursements:
FY  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
cUSS million)
Annual         4.44   5.43   5.72   5.73   5.85   5.03   3.59   2.53   1.68
Cumulative     4.44   9.87  15.59  21.32  27.17  32.20  35.79  38.32  40.00
Economic Rate
of Return:                N/A
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5974-ME, dated March 5, 1986.
1/ Figures do not add due to rounding. The project costs are net of duties
and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.,I.B.D.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.,I.B.D. (BANOBRAS)
with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$40 mil-
lion to help finance a Municipal Strengthening Project. The loan would be
repaid over 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. The Peso equivalent of about US$30.5 million would be made
available to municipalities under subloans and grants which would cover at
most 80% of subproject costs. Subloans would be made at interest rates
specified in the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA), and under repayment
terms which would vary according to the type of subproject. For the Staff
Development and Organizational Strengthening components, and for Project
Administration, proceeds of the loan would be made available to the relevant
implementing agencies on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on Mexico (Mexico: Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. A new Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled to be issued by
June, 1986. Recent economic developments and a provisional assessment of the
consequences for Mexico of the recent sharp decline in oil prices are dis-
cussed below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Following an inward-looking growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some three decades of high and stable growth from the 1940s to the 1960s. By
1970, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the early and efficient possi-
bilities for import substitution. Against the expectation of rapidly rising
petroleum earnings, the Government attempted to foster growth through expan-
sion of public sector expenditures, rising subsidies, and the protection of
high cost domestic production. Public sector expenditures as a percent of
GDP increased by more than half between 1970 and 1976, from 20.9Z to 31.9Z.
In 1976, Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis. Al-
though an increase in oil revenues led Mexico to a quick economic recovery in
1977, it also removed the urgency of policy reforms. Starting in 1980,
rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenue growth led to
increasing public sector deficits. While inflation rose, no significant
pressure was felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and
the relative ease of obtaining foreign finance.



4.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures
reached the unprecedented level of 40.1% of GDP, while the deficit reached
nearly 18% of GDP. In February, as capital'flight intensified, the Bank of
Mexico stopped supporting the peso, which then experienced a 40% devaluation
in US dollar terms. A large wage adjustment and continuing slack in the oil
market tended to undo the effects of the devaluation and kept the balance of
payments under strain. Consumer price inflation nearly quadrupled from 29%
in 1981 to 99% in 1982. The international banking community declined to
commit new funds to Mexico in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35% in Aigust 1982 and the suspension of amortization
payments on most of Mexico's external public debt. Capital flight continued
as private sector confidence was shaken by the nationalization of the banks
in September 1982 and by the mandatory conversion of US dollar deposits into
pesos. Also introduced were exchange controls and quantitative restrictions
covering all imports.
5.        Beginning in late 1982, with the support of an Extended Fund
Facility from the IMF, Mexico undertook a stabilization program based on
drastic contraction of domestic demand, through fiscal, exchange rate, and
monetary policy. The peso was depreciated to an unprecedented new low in
real terms, and import controls were tightened. Public sector expenditure in
relation to GDP declined over the period 1983-85, from the high of 40.1% in
1982 to about 33% by 1985. Non-interest expenditure declined to about 22% of
GDP by 1985, a ten-year low. Public sector investment was cut from about 10l
of GDP in the late 1970s to 6.6%, again a ten-year low, and non-interest cur-
rent expenditure also declined, though more modestly, and remained still at
the levels of the late 1970s. Real wages fell 20-25% between 1982 and 1984.
Most public sector prices were raised in real terms.
6.        The stabilization effort for 1983-84 was impressive.  Imports fell
25%, non-oil exports (including border industries) rose 40%, and the trade
balance shoved unprecedented surpluses in 1983-84.  Despite declining oil
prices, net foreign reserves increased from a negative US$2.0 billion to $6.5
billion between the end of 1982 and the end of 1984. The 1983-84 performance
was hailed by the international financial community as a model for other
countries. A massive foreign debt restructuring was successfully nego-
tiated. Total net foreign borrowing for the three-year period 1983-85
amounted to $4.5 billion, for an actual decline in the overall debt, in real
terms, of about 4%. But the optimistic reaction to Mexico's success in
1983-84 overlooked the short-term focus of the stabilization program and the
absence of long overdue structural reforms. Optimism turned to disenchant-
ment a year later, when it became clear that stabilization in the absence of
more fundamental structural reforms could not restore Mexico's creditworthi-
ness, nor would sustainable economic growth be possible without such reforms.
7.        Despite tight fiscal and monetary policies, inflation in both 1983
and 1984 turned out to be much higher than had been projected by the authori-
ties, consumer prices rising by 80% and 59%, respectively. The fiscal
deficit fell substantially in 1983, to 8.5% of GDP, but then leveled off in
1984. GDP fell in both 1982 and 1983 (by 0.5% and 5.3%, respectively), and
recovered only partially in 1984 (by about 3.5%). GDP per capita by 1984
remained below the levels of 1980 and income per head lower still. By late
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-3-
1984, as the Government prepared for the mid-term congressional elections of
July 1985, fiscal policy began to ease, and public sector borrowing increased
substantially. Monetary policy turned accommodating, the exchange rate
appreciated further in real terms, and the fiscal deficit rose well above
program targets. The demand-led growth spurt that resulted, accompanied by
higher than projected inflation, was unsustainable and short lived.
Recent Developments
8.        Most program targets were missed in 1985.  The fiscal deficit rose
to 9.8Z, inflation increased to 63.8%, non-oil exports declined by over 10X
from their 1984 levels, and most components of the balance of payments
deteriorated. Foreign reserves declined by nearly US$3.5 billion. While
external public debt actually declined during 1985, the domestic debt of the
public sector surged back up toward the level of 1982. As a result, crowding
out of the private sector in the credit markets was severe, as the share of
the public sector in total credit reached an unprecedented high in excess of
75% in 1985. The brief spurt of GDP growth between mid-1984 and mid-1985
came quickly to a halt in late 1985.
9.        In response to the emerging new crisis, the Government adopted
during the course of 1985 a series of important corrective measures, includ-
ing removing import licensing requirements from an additional 40% of merchan-
dise imports, thus increasing the share of imports not subject to QRs to 63%
of total imports.   The controlled exchange rate was devalued by almost 20%
in real terms, and the system of preannounced fixed daily crawl was replaced
by a more flexible managed float. Important economies were announced in the
public sector, including the elimination of some 25,000 full-time positions
and plans to privatize over 230 small state-owned companies. The Government
also started to rationalize parastatal operations. Further, aggressive
adjustment of the controlled exchange rate and a consequent narrowing of the
margin between the controlled and free rates, combined with tight domestic
credit brought capital flight to a virtual halt in late October.
10.       In spite of the reconstruction needs created by the September
earthquakes (estimated at US$4 billion), the authorities prepared an austere
budget for 1986. This budget signaled the commitment of the administration
to renewed demand-management efforts to recover internal and external balance
and move on to a sustainable growth path by the late 1980s. The budget aimed
at halving the fiscal deficit to 4.9% of GDP, through sharp cuts in transfers
and subsidies, smaller reductions in public investment, a surcharge on
upper-income taxpayers, and large adjustments in official prices anc tar-
iffs. The 1986 program also stressed the importance of continuing policies
to liberalize trade, and pushing ahead with other major reforms such as the
restructuring/privatization of some parastatal companies and the easing of
remaining restrictions to foreign investment.
11.       The recent instability in the world oil markets has lowered the
Government's revenue projections for 1986. The expectation of lower prices
and volume of oil exports for this year, despite its negative fiscal and
balance of payments implications, has not affected the Administration's
resolve to continue with the stabilization cum structural reform policy. The



-4-
1986 budget that is now being revised will undoubtedly reflect a larger
public sector deficit and larger external financing requirements. For the
fiscal deficit, part of the loss from oil taxes will be offset by further
trimuing of subsidies and public expenditures. Similarly the increase in
foreign borrowing requirements will be much smaller than the actual drop in
oil export receipts, as a result of foreign interest rates, imports and
build-up in reserves all expected to be lower than the original budget
assumptions. Hence, the picture for external financing needs, although some-
what more difficult, should remain manageable barring further major declines
in Mexico's oil export prospects.
Medium-Term Prospects
12.       Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic
growth remain good, provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its
current stabilization program accompanied by major structural adjustment
policies (including trade liberalization cum non-oil export promotion,
restructuring/privatization of parastatal companies), private sector confi-
dence is restored, and the international environment remains reasonably
favorable, including open markets for Mexico's non-oil exports. Restoration
of private sector confidence is crucial, since only a strong and dynamic
private sector will be able to raise investment and production from the
present depressed levels and supply the increasing non-oil export surplus
required for the resumption of growth and the attainment of sound balance of
payments prospects.   As regards the external environment, the international
financial community should be prepared to provide fLnancing in support of
sound, growth-oriented economic policies.
13.       Under moderately favorable external and domestic conditions,
Mexlco's economic growth could reach a sustainable 4-5X a year toward the
late 1980s. However, should a more outward-oriented growth pattern compris-
ing fiscal discipline, improved domestic efficiency, and non-oil export
development fail to materialize, Mexico could enter into a period of
prol'nged stagnation, characterized by insufficient labor absorption, domes-
tic price distortions, and continued balance of payments difficulties.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
14.       Mexico's external public and private debt increased by about US$6
billion during 1983-84, and fell by US$1.5 billion in 1985 to US$92.8 bil-
lion. With an international oil price of US$20/barrel, the net new borrowing
requirements are expected to average some US$2-3 billion per annum during the
remainder of the decade, with the debt service ratio remaining a little over
50%. With an oil price of US$15/barrel, the net borrowing requirements would
be an average of US$4-5 billion per annum during the same period, while the
debt service ratio would be around an average of 55%.
15.       At the end of 1985, the Bank's share in Mexico's public debt was
5.1%. The Bank's share in Mexico's total public external interest payments
was 4.3%. The Bank's exposure in Mexico as of end-1985 amounted to 7.6% of
its total. In view of the expectation that sound economic policies will be
pursued in the future, Mexico is considered creditworthy for this loan.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
16.       As of September 30, 1985, Mexico had received 91 loans from the
Bank, amounting to US$7.72 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 59 loans totalling US$3.6 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held
US$6.1 billion, of which US$2.4 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 40%
of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 20% for
industry, 9Z for power, and 18% for transportation; the remaining 13% has
been for water supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1985.
17.       Of the US$7.72 billion total lending, about US$4.7 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises.
18.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused on project monitoring. As a result of these measures,
most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily
until mid-1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78, to USS448
million in FY82. However, the 1982 financial crisis again caused delays in
the provision of counterpart funds; consequently, disbursements in FY83
declined to USS389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established
in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding
constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects are
receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, dis-
bursements during FY84 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35%
over disbursements in 1983. The FY85 disbursement figure is US$787.93
million, 49% over 1984 or 100% over projected. A reconstruction loan has
been appraised to respond to the needs of the September 1985 earthquakes.
The proposed loan will be multi-sectoral and will cover all aspects of the
overall reconstruction program. In addition, ongoing loans have been
adjusted to address reconstruction needs.
IFC Operations
19.       As of September 30, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$572.8 mil-
lion had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC invest-
ments is presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank
in preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign
exchange financing to private sector companies, for the importation of
machinery, equipment, and spare parts required for production of exportable
products, for efficient import substitution, and for improvements in the



-6 -
utilization of their existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100
million facility (including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in
1983, which is providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than
those assisted under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
20.       The Bank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were
to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or
indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth.  These continue to be important objectives of
Bank assistance to Mexico. However, following the 1982 economic crisis, and
a reassessment of the Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank Management concluded
that: (a) increased Bank lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be
linked to central policy reforms; and (b) the Bank should play a central role
in assisting Mexico's return to voluntary lending. To prepare itself for
this new role, the Bank has intensified and broadened its economic and sector
work. Specific policy reforms that are presently being pursued through a
dialogue with the Mexican Government cover priority macro-economic and
cross-sectoral issues, such as trade liberalization, rationalization of
preferential credit systems, improvement in public sector pricing and invest-
ment and subsidy reduction. Traditional lending incorporating project- or
sector-specific policy issues will be conducted in parallel with policy
dialogue on cross-sectoral or macro-policy issues.
21.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population
living in rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for
its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at (a) a
more efficient and rational use of natural resources to increase production;
(b) productivity improvements of'cultivated lands, with emphasis on the
productivity of small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment generating
investments in rural areas. To support these goals, infrastructure invest-
ments in Bank-assisted projects have been complemented with support services,
such as extension, marketing programs and credit. The Bank has made 10 loans
in FYs8O-85 totalling US$1,566.0 million for irrigation, rural and agricul-
tural investment projects, and agro-industrial and livestock credit pro-
grams. Projects for irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed
multiplication, forestry, agro-industries and agricultural credit are in
various stages of preparation. Special emphasis has been placed in recent
years on the development of rainfed areas.
22.       Bank lending for industry aims at:  (a) improving competitiveness
and export growth; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; (c) promoting greater employment
and skilled development; and (d) supporting the growth of enterprises and the
financial sector. Between FYs8O-85, seven loans amounting to US$947.30 mil-
lion were approved in the areas of small- and medium-scale industry, mining,
vocational training, development of capital goods industries, and promotion



of exports. In response to the current needs of the industrial sector,
several projects to support non-oil export development, acquisition of modern
technology, and financial restructuring of enterprises are in various stages
of preparation. A Trade Development Policy Loan (DPL) is now being appraised
aiming at supporting the trade liberalization process, assisting in the
recovery of sustainable economic growth and facilitating the mobilization of
commercial bank funds to cover part of the external financing needs for 1986.
23.       Bank lending for transport has focused on regional development,
strengthening of institutions and rationalization of public investment out-
lays and pricing policies. Between FYs80-85 six loans amounting to US$753.75
million were approved including two in each of the following three
subsectors: highways, railways and ports. Additional projects to support
the above goals were undertaken in the urban sector. During FYs8O-85 four
loans were approved in the urban sector, totalling US$408.5 million in the
fields of water supply and sewerage, and other urban investments. Additional
projec:s are under consideration in the transport and urban sectors aiming at
strengthening the various institutions in the areas of planning, management,
and finance.
24.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico
through various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and insti-
tutional reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at courses/seminars
on water supply and sanitation sector management, transport policy, agricul-
tural policy, industrial development and finance, and macro-policy analysis.
25.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.4 billion as of September 30, 1985. Over 50% of the total has
gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans
for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural
and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and
hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development
project in the State of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the Bank's staff and
for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the
loan.
PART III - &ECTOR BACKGROUND
26.       Mexico's outstanding spatial problems are the heavy concentration
of economic activity, wealth and population in Mexico City, the lack of
integration between urban and rural areas, and unbalanced inter-regional
development. Population growth has declined from 3.2% p.a. in the early
1970s to 2.6% p.a. at present. Approximately 68% of the country's 75 million



- 8 -
people live in urban centers of more than 2,500 inhabitants, while about 26%
of the population live in the three main metropolitan areas: Mexico City,
Guadalajara and Monterrey.
27.       Providing basic municipal services and improving the social
well-being of all Mexicans has preoccupied successive Administrations.
During the decade of the 70's and early 80's, the percentage of the
population with access to piped water increased from 49 to 66Z and the
percentage connections to sewers or sanitation increased from 29 to 43%.
However, the recent economic climate has led to a significant rise in
services deficits nationwide and a deterioration in existing infrastructure
through poor maintenance and lack of training.
28.       Successive administrations have attempted to address the over
concentration of people and economic activity in Mexico City (and to a lesser
extent in Guadalajara and Monterrey) through major decentralization efforts.
During the previous administration (1976-82) physical decentralization was
given priority through, inter alia: the enactment of the Law of Human
Settlements, the creation of a new Ministry of Human Settlements and Public
Works, the issuance of new federal-state institutional procedures and the
creation of large federal programs and special-incentive schemes to attract
investments in pre-defined priority regions.
29.       President Miguel de la Madrid's administration has again assigned
high priority to decentralization efforts. The Government, as the first
initiative towards establishing a base for its decentralization policies, in
February 1983, modified Article 115 of the Constitution which governs
municipal functions. This modification defined the legal responsibilities of
municipalities to include the planning, financing, implementing, operating
and maintaining of basic municipal services. Through subsequent related
decrees, the role of federal agencies were modified to conform to the
municipalities' increased responsibilities.
30.       The Government's decentralization strategy is outlined in the
Program for the Decentralization of the Federal Public Administration,
published in January 1985. Unlike previous approaches which mostly
concentrated on physical decentralization (deconcentration), the present
strategy emphasizes the delegation of responsibilities which were previously
centralized in federal government secretariats in Mexico City, to either
federal agencies operating at the state level or to state and municipal
governments. This strategy will imply and require more state and local
participation in programming and implementing investment decisions, greater
coordination among central agencies and between federal, state and municipal
governments, more state and local inputs into policy planning with federal
agencies providing overall policy guidance, technical outreach support and
overall evaluation of programs.
31.       On September 19, 1985, Mexico was hit by one of the worst earth-
quakes in its history, measuring 8.1 on the Richter scale. The earthquake
and subsequent aftershocks caused severe damage in Mexico City and in the
states of Jalisco, Michoacan, Colima, Guerrero and Mexico. In Mexico City
alone, an estimated 60% of federal goveirnment buildings were destroyed or



-9-
heavily damaged and need to be demolished. Instead of reconstructing office
space in Mexico City, the Government has decided to accelerate the ongoing
decentralization program. Staff and operations of various Secretariats are
to be relocated to 20 cities which have been selected on the basis of, inter
alia, their physical location, existing population and rate of growth, land
availability and capacity for expanding use of existing infrastructure. The
Government's objective is to address the decentralization program in these 20
cities in an integrated manner in which, policy, financing and investments
are coordinated at the federal level with state and municipal plans and pro-
grams. The proposed project would finance studies for the development of
detailed plans for decentralization in 20 priority cities as well as pilot
municipal investments in two selected cities (paras. 48 and 49).
Sector Organization
32.       The Government structure in Mexico is highly centralized with the
federal government selectively delegating power to the 31 states and 2379
municipalities. Municipalities are the primary political and administrative
units of government. Municipal governments are headed by mayors which,
together with approximately 10% of senior municipal officials, are elected
for three-year terms and are not eligible for reelection. In accordance with
the recent modifications to Article 115 of the Constitution, municipalities
are responsibile for the planning and delivery of various urban services
including: water supply and sewerage, drainage, solid waste management,
roads and streetlighting, retail and wholesale markets, slaughterhouses,
parks and gardens, graveyards, traffic management and public security.
Municipal governments have full authority to set and collect user charges and
property taxes, to plan, finance and implement investments, and to operate
and maintain basic municipal services. However, the administrative,
financial and managerial capabilities of municipalities vary substantially;
only about 100 of the larger municipalities are capable of undertaking their
legal responsibilities. The absence of both qualified technical staff and
adequate access to technical assistance and training result in reduced
mobilization of financial resources at the municipal level, slow implementa-
tion of projects and overall inefficiency in the provision, operation and
maintenance of basic municipal services. While municipalities have recently
been given increased responsibilities, no clear municipal training policy has
been adopted by federal and state governments; heretofore training of
municipal staff has taken place informally on the job or on an ad-hoc basis.
Strengthening municipal management through intensive training programs in
order to improve the provision of basic municipal services is, therefore,
essential for the success of the Government's decentralization program.
33.       At the federal level, various Government agencies are involved in
overseeing policy in and providing technical assistance to municipalities.
The Secretaria de Gobernacion (SG) is concerned with the jurisdiction, status
and administration of local governments and their political relations with
the Federal Government. The Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP)
is responsible for revenue collection, for overseeing the financial manage-
ment and revenue operations of local governments, for determining sources of
financing at the federal level, and for the operation and management (includ-
ing credit operations) of the Government's financial agents. The Secretaria



- 10 -
de Programacion y Presupuesto (SPP) reviews and subsequently evaluates state
and local budgets to ensure their priorities are consistent with national and
regional plans, programs and statutory requirements. SPP is also responsible
for the allocation of federal budgetary allocations to municipalities. The
Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (SEDUE) is the principal normative
authority responsible for water supply, sewerage, solid waste and other basic
municipal services. SEDUE is responsible for advising on and reviewing of
land use plans prepared by state and local governments and for providing
technical assistance and support for all municipal and urban services. All
of the Secretariats have regional offices in each state.
34.       BANOBRAS is a financial agent of the Government responsible for
financing infrastructure (urban development, water supply, highway, etc.)
investments.  The federal government, th:ough SHCP, controls BANOBRAS'
policies and directs its borrowings and lending activities. BANOBRAS onlends
funds to states and municipalities through various "windows' on varying terms
and conditions. However, in view of the internal organization requiring
coordination among four divisions (External Credit, Planning, Operations and
Training), as well as complex bureaucratic procedures for loan application
and processing, and lack of promotion, BANOBRAS has not been a major source
of f mding to municipalities. A Government decree issued in July 1985,
modifies the status of BANOBRAS to that of a National Credit Institution and
Development Bank. In its expanded capacity, BANOBRAS is to become more
actively involved in initiating, preparing, appraising and supervising
investment projects. In addition to headquarters in Mexico City, BANOBRAS
has six regional branches. BANOBRAS has prepared a draft program for estab-
lishing branches at each state level, adequately staffed to carry out
appraisals, loan processing and monitoring operations. This program is being
reviewed in light of adjustments necessitated by current budgetary con-
straints. Until additional branches are established, BANOBRAS would imple-
ment administrative and operational measures at the regional and state
levels, as required for the timely implementation of the Project, including
mechanisms for the promotion of the Government's Program for the Strengthen-
ing of Municipalities (para. 46) and for the provision of financial services
required by eligible municipalities in connection with the execution of
subprojects.
35.       In support of the Government's decentralization efforts, federal,
state and municipal agencies have been instructed to create special internal
units which would provide technical and financial assistance and training to
municipalities. There is, however, at present, no proper framework for
coordinating the activities of these units and there is considerable ambi-
guity on the roles and responsibilities of the various agencies. The
proposed project would assist the Government in addressing this issue on a
pilot basis by developing the framework, direction and necessary technical
and financial assistance so as to strengthen all municipalities over the next
10-15 years.
Municipal Finance
36.       Although municipalities are now expected to provide a wide range of
urban services, their finances and accounting records are generally weak and
inadequate. Over the 1977-1982 period municipal revenues grew at an average



- 11 -
annual rate of 18% in real terms, while expenditures grew at an average
annual rate of 12% in real terms. Municipal borrowing remained at a constant
4% of revenues throughout this period. Thus, the resources and borrowing
capacity of municipalities are sufficient to support increased capital
investment to improve the quality of municipal services and expand their
coverage. The most striking trend, over the 1977-1982 period, was the 33%
average annual increase (in real terms) in transfers to municipalities
through federal revenue sharing. These transfers increased from 25% of total
revenues in 1977 to 42% in 1982. In addition to federal revenue sharing,
federal and state subsidies to municipalities (excluding credit subsidies)
increased at an average annual rate of 15% in real terms during this period.
Total transfers (revenue sharing plus direct subsidies) grew as a proportion
of total municipal revenues from 45% in 1977 to 59% in 1982. Municipally
generated revenues, including borrowings, decreased from 55X of total
revenues in 1977 to 41% in 1982.
37.       Given domestic resource constraints, it is unlikely that municipal-
ities will, in the future, receive this increasing amount of federal govern-
ment support. Municipal governments will need tc generate considerably more
resources to meet the needs of their growing population. Modification of
Article 115 of the Constitution provides the legal instruments for substan-
tial increases in municipal own-source revenues. Municipalities, which
previously received 15% of property taxes collected by states, are now
responsible for collecting property taxes and retaining 80% of collections.
Furthermore, municipalities now collect and retain all user charges for
water, severage and drainage systems, solid waste services, markets and
slaughterhouses, among other basic services. Finally, as municipalities have
adopted conservative fiscal policies, they have considerable potential for
borrowing.
Bank Sector Strategy, Past Experience and Rationale for Bank Involvement
38.       Mexico's urbanization pattern and the inordinate growth of the
Mexico City Region have been a recurrent subject of dialogue between the Bank
and Mexican authorities. Since 1978, the Bank has assisted the Government in
projects aimed at addressing spatial decentralization through the development
of alternative growth poles and deconcentration of the Mexico City Region.
39.       The first urban project supported by the Bank in Mexico was the
Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project (Loan No. 1554-ME of
September 27, 1978). This project was an attempt to deal with a variety of
urban and regional development issues in a priority region which had been the
subject of other Bank-supported projects. The Second Urban and Regional
Development Project (Loan No. 1990-HE of May 12, 1981), addressed similar
issues in the oil-producing areas of Tabasco, Veracruz and Chiapas. Both
projects were aimed at providing infrastructure, coimunity facilities,
low-cost housing and credits for productive enterprises to complement
expanding economic activity in growing peripheral regions. Implementation of
these projects was adversely affected by difficulties in institutional
coordinatika, inadequate technical and financial capacity at the state and
municipal level, and complex bureaucratic procedures. These issues would be
addressed under the proposed project. The latter project has, in addition,



- 12 -
been affected by reduced absorptive capacity in the project area, as well as,
by recently revised administrative arrangements necessitated by the Govern-
ment's decentralization program. The Deconcentration Program for the Mexico
City Region (Loan No. 2194-ME of August 3, 1982) supports the preparation of
a pre-investment stage of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City
region. A Low Income Housing Project (Loan No. 2612-ME of August 6, 1985),
concentrating investments outside the Mexico City region, and addressing
macro issues on housing finance, is in initial stages of implementation.
40.       An initial water supply project for the Mexico City region (Loan
No. 909-ME of June 1973) was completed, albeit with some delays, but is
considered to have achieved its principal objectives (Project Performance
Audit Report No. SecMB3-765 dated July 1983). Three subsequent water supply
projects have supported deconcentration efforts and more equitable regional
distribution of benefits through assistance in medium-size cities. Through
these projects, the Bank has assisted the Government in significantly improv-
ing financial policies, planning and institutional capacities. The institu-
tional arrangements under which these projects operate have been affected by
modifications to Article 115 of the Constitution and some adjustments to
account for the municipalities' increased responsibilities have been made.
41.       The proposed project would provide timely support to the Govern-
ment's decentralization policies and is expected to: (i) help improve the
overall municipal public sector management policy and consolidate the Govern-
ment's decentralization program; (ii) improve the institutional and financial
management of municipalities by gradually rationalizing the system of grant
transfers, and strengthening municipal finances through application of a
systematic methodology which would lead to appropriate pricing and cost
recovery policies; (iii) reduce federal subsidies to states and municipali-
ties by improving access to credit and improving local finance mobilization;
and (iv) establish, at the federal and state levels, a coordinated and
streamlined mechanism to provide assistance for enabling municipalities to
discharge their assigned responsibilities.
42.       Future Bank lending in both the Urban and Water Supply sectors will
necessarily incorporate the revised institutional framework required as a
result of the Government's decentralization policy. A series of projects in
Solid Waate Management (processed in parallel), Small Cities Water Supply,
and Medium Cities Urban Transport are envisaged, to establish, at the federal
level, the technical subsector expertise and relevant institutional coordina-
tion, required to provide municipalities with financial and technical assis-
tance and training, within the framework established under the proposed
project, to adequately discharge their responsibilities in these subsectors.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project was identified in August, 1984 and appraised
in August, 1985. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5974-ME) dated March 5, 1986
is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from
February 18 through February 25, 1986. The Mexican delegation was led by
mr. German Sandoval of BANOBRAS.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project would support the Government's objectives to
improve the utilization of human and financial resources and strengthen
institutions, particularly at the municipal level, to increase the delivery
of affordable and efficient urban services. Within these overall program
objectives, the proposed project would: (a) strengthen the municipalities'
organizational, administrative and financial management systems and perfor-
mance; (b) strengthen federal and state agencies in the area of municipal
development through provision of financial resources and effective training
programs; and (c) assist municipalities in expanding and upgrading urban
infrastructure. The project objectives would be achieved through the
implementation of the following components: (a) Municipal Staff Development
and Organizational Strengthening; (b) Federal and State Staff Development and
Organizational Strengthening; (c) Infrastructure and Related Investment Fund
for Municipal Development; and (d) Project Administration.
45.       Program Structure.  The project would emphasize a  process- orien-
tation that would represent a shift away from traditional single project
analysis to an institutional appraisal focused on the municipality as an
important agent of national economic development. The project is designed
around an integrated set of mutually supportive activities. After carrying
out a detailed institutional and financial appraisal, municipalities would
have access to credit for municipal infrastructure subject to presenting
subproject appraisals, participating in relevant training programs and
implementing required financial measures. Because of the pilot nature of the
project, emphasis has been placed on monitoring and evaluation for project
management and subsequently for project performance evaluation. Specific
indicators have been established for measuring the performance of institu-
tions and of beneficiary municipalities, as well as the impact of the program
as a whole.
46.       The Government's Program for the Strengthening of Municipalities
(FORTAMUN) would be formally established under a mandate from SHCP to
BANOBRAS, as a condition of effectiveness. The mandate agreement authorizes
BANOBRAS to control funding and establishes the basic structure of the pro-
gram, including: (a) the establishment of a high-level inter-ministerial
Steering Committee; (b) the establishment of a Technical Secretariat (TS) for
coordinating the various agencies and the program as a whole; (c) the estab-
lishment of a Training Support Unit (TSU) responsible for providing detailed
technical support to training agencies; and (d) the formalization of the
Operating Guidelines which detail the basis for the operation of FORTAMUN.
The Operating Guidelines include: (a) project objectives; (b) participation
criteria; (c) operating procedures; (d) procedures for institutional and
financial appraisal of municipalities; (e) procedures for financial, techni-
cal, and economic appraisal of subprojects; (f) model subloan agreements;
(g) procurement guidelines; (h) recommendations on cost recovery mechanisms;
(i) accounting, auditing and reporting requirements; and (j) monitoring and
evaluation procedures. The Operating Guidelines include a definition of
concepts and data requirements, methodology for analysis of historic data and
other indicators, as well as financial projection and impact techniques. The
Operating Guidelines would be approved by BANOBRAS and the Guarantor as a



- 14 -
condition of effectiveness, on terms acceptable to the Bank. BANOBRAS would
agree to follow policies and procedures as outlined in the Operating Guide-
lines, which were reviewed during negotiations, and would not make any
changes in the manual which would materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project.
47.       Municipal Staff Development and Organizational Strengthening.  The
Municipal Staff Development component would support a coordinated program to
upgrade the administrative and financial capacity of selected municipalities
through the training of: (a) about 14,350 senior municipal officials requir-
ing structured orientation of Government priorities for municipal reform;
(b) about 5,000 mid-level municipal officials responsible for the continued
operation of services and programs across municipal administrations; and
(c) about 260 trainers. The project would finance the cost of courses,
travel and subsistence and required equipment and materials. To the extent
possible, existing facilities, courses and curricula would be utilized. The
following six training themes would be provided to initiate the program:
Program Priorities, Financial Management, Credit Management, Municipal
Administration, Legal Aspects, and Technical Services. Training for mid-
level officials would focus on specific skill training such as improving
cadastres, accounting, inventory control, pricing of services, programming,
project formulation, economic evaluation and project appraisal, and operation
and maintenance. Additional training materials would be developed under the
project. In addition, this component would include a program of technical
assistance and fellowships to: (a) assist municipalities in implementing
improved financial and administrative management systems; (b) strengthen
training agencies by contracting with national or foreign institutions for
specialist staff; (c) provide for program planning and evaluation; and
(d) provide study visits to assist in technical and pedagogical aspects of
curriculum development, implementation of training courses and operational
systems.
48.       Federal and State Staff Development and Organizational Strengthen-
ing. The Federal and State Staff Development component would provide for:
training of staff of federal and state agencies providing outreach support to
municipalities, including, SG, SHCP, SPP, SEDUE, BANOBRAS, their regional
branches, relevant state-level agencies and training subsidiaries, as well as
training the trainers. The project would finance the cost of courses, travel
and subsistence, required equipment and materials, and related technical
assistance and fellowships. This component would include technical assis-
tance, training and studies to carry out preinvestment training and detailed
feasibility studies for the 20 cities selected for the Government's decen-
tralization (para. 31). The SG, assisted by the Training Support Unit, would
establish an information and data system to examine the characteristics of
municipal manpower and prepare an assessment of training needs as a pre-
requisite to formulating a National Municipal Training Policy. Detailed
terms of reference for the studies would be submitted to the Bank for
approval.
49.       Infrastructure and Related Investment Fund for Municipal Develop-
ment. This component would support the establishment of a municipal develop-
ment fund (MDF) within BANOBRAS to provide subloans to municipalities in



- 15 -
respect of subproject investments in water supply, sewerage, roads, drainage,
streetlighting, markets, slaughterhouses, etc. Municipalities, depending on
their financial needs, would receive partial subproject funding through
matching grants (para. 67). In addition to channelling government budgetary
support for municipal subprojects in conjunction with credit funds, the MDF
would serve to demonstrate the simplification of subloan application proce-
dures, reduction in subloan review period and improvements in BANOBRAS'
appraisal process, including a "pre-appraissl" process through which a
municipality would be prequalified for a line-of-credit based on its finan-
cial situation and debt-carrying capacity. Two pilot subprojects would
finance municipal infrastructure in cities targetted under the Government's
decentralization program (para. 31). With the exception of the pilot
subprojects which would not individually exceed US$12.0 million, subprojects
financed under the MDF would not exceed USS2.0 million.
50.       Project Administration.  The project would finance the salary of
key full-time staff of the TS and TSU (paras. 56 and 57) as well as travel
and subsistence costs, materials and equipment required for project adminis-
tration.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total project cost, excluding taxes, but including physical and
price contingencies, is estimated at US$80.0 million equivalent, with an
estimated foreign exchange cost of US$18.3 million. Costs for the training
and technical assistance components have been based on an analysis of similar
recent expenditures by each of the executing agencies (para. 57). Approxi-
mately 1475 staff months of consultants' services have been estimated to
carry out training, technical assistance, studies and support activities.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed on the training and technical
assistance components. Similarly, price contingencies on the training and
technical assistance components only, have been estimated according to a
nine-year disbursement profile, on US dollar based values at 7% for 1986 and
1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5% for 1991 onwards.
Base costs are expressed in December 1985 prices.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent would finance
50% of project cost or the estimated foreign exchange component plus 35% of
local costs. This is in line with recent Bank participation in social sector
projects in Mexico, and is justified by the extensive expenditure in local
currency, the training and technical assistance and pilot nature of the
project. BANOBRAS would as a condition of effectiveness, enter into contrac-
tual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Government providing
for the transfer of loan funds to the Government for the purposes of carrying
out FORTAMUN and repayment of the loan by the Government. The Government
would provide the required counterpart funds through annual budgetary alloca-
tions to FORTAMUN. For subproject investments, municipalities would
contribute the equivalent US$12.2 million from their revenues. Part of the
loan proceeds (US$9.5 million) would be channelled by the Government through
the project account (para. 55) to the agencies implementing training, techni-
cal assistance and project administration on a grant basis. The remaining



- 16 -
balance (US$30.5 million) would provide initial capital to the MDF to provide
subloans and grants for subprojects to be implemented by municipalities on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 65 to 67). Principal
and interest payments on subloans would be deposited in the NDF and further
onlent to municipalities for the purposes of expanding FORTAMUN.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Mexico's construction industry is highly developed and capable of
executing works at costs competitive with international bidders and none of
the individual contracts would be large enough to attract foreign bidders.
Therefore, most construction contracts would be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, which would
allow participation by foreign contractors. Civil works contracts estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 and up to an aggregate of US$8.0 million would
be contracted directly on the basis of at least three quotations. Works not
exceeding in the aggregate US$5.0 million would be executed on the basis of
force account procedures. This large amount of force account is required
because of the large number of small works to be executed by municipalities,
many of which have established work forces capable of carrying out works in
the most economic and efficient manner. Most equipment and materials for
subprojects, as well as for the training and institutional strengthening
components, would be procured under LCB procedures. ICB procedures would be
followed when the estimated cost of a single package exceeds US$250,000.
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent and
up to an aggregate limit of US$7.0 million would be contracted directly
through prudent local shopping on the basis of at least three quotations.
Consultants' services for studies, training and technical assistance would be
obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines. Because of the large number of
small individual contracts, the Bank would review all awards on an ex-post
basis. Prior Bank review would be required for contracts procured under ICB.
54.       Disbursements would be made to cover:  50% of expenditures for
training (including fellowships and travel and subsistence cost of trainers),
equipment and materials for training, consultants' services and project
administration and 100% of amounts disbursed for civil works, materials and
equipment under approved subloans and grants up to 50% of the subproject
cost, as authorized by the Bank. All disbursements in respect of expendi-
tures under subloans, training and project administration would be made
against certified Statements of Expenditures. Supporting documentation for
these expenditures would be retained in BANOBRAS, and made available for
periodic review by Bank supervision missions. Retroactive financing in an
amount not exceeding US$0.6 million equivalent would be provided for expendi-
tures for preparation of promotional and training materials, and technical
assistance incurred on or after September 1, 1985. To accelerate disburse-
ments, BANOBRAS would establish and maintain under its control, a Special
Account, with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million, which would be operated
in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Accounts and Auditing
55.       Beneficiary municipalities would be required to maintain detailed
subproject accounts which would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to



- 17 -
BANOBRAS. The audit reports would be made available to the Bank for review
upon request. BANOBRAS would, when necessary, provide technical assistance
to municipalities to assist in establishing an information base and account-
ing system as a condition of granting subloans. BANOBRAS would open and
maintain a separate account to reflect all project expenditures, including a
separate sub-account to reflect all transactions under the MDF. Other
imp'lementing agencies would be responsible for maintaining separate project
accounts. The consolidated project account including the MDF, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
auditors' reports would be forwarded to the Bank no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. The Special Account would be audited by
BANOBRAS' independent auditors and their report would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Project Execution
56.       Project Organization and Manaement.  A Steering Committee (Comite
Directivo), headed by the the Undersecretary of SHCP, and consisting of
senior officials of SG, SPP, SEDUE and BANOBRAS would be appointed to deal
with overall policy matters (para. 46). The TS, would centralize overall
project management and would be responsible for coordinating, programming,
managing and performance monitoring functions, including administering
project finances. The TS, headed by an experienced administrator, would be
supported by a number of staff trained in finance, programming, and adminis-
trative skills. The TS Director would function as ex-officio Secretary to
the Steering Committee.
57.       The TSU would be established, under the coordination of the TS, to
coordinate, plan, program and promote the training and technical assistance
components (paras. 47 and 48). The TSU would form the nucleus of a central
national coordination center for municipal training programs and would be
staffed by representatives of SHCP, SPP, SG, SEDUE and BANOBRAS, assisted by
training experts, as required. The Government would provide assurances that
the TS and the TSU would be adequately staffed at all times. The training
components would be implemented by SHCP, SPP, SG, SEDUE and BANOBRAS and
their subsidiary Training Units (INDETEC, INCAFI, CECADE, CNEM and CEDADEM)
assisted, as necessary, by external training institutions.
58.       The State Development and Planning Committees (COPLADES) would
participate actively in the prorotion of the program. Subproject investments
would be implemented by municipalities who would plan and execute their
program with the assistance of SEDUE and consultants, when necessary.
BANOBRAS would be responsible for the appraisal of municipal subprojects, for
all credit operations and monitoring and evaluation.
59.       Selection criteria have been agreed and are incorporated in the
Operating Guidelines. Priority for states selected take into account dates
of changes in administration and the recent earthquake (para. 31). Because
of its pilot nature, priority will be given to those municipalities in each
state that are likely to benefit quickly from the project and therefore serve
as In-state demonstrative examples. Participation in the MDF or the training
component would be on a self-selection basis. For the MDF specific criteria



- 18 -
would include: (a) willingness to follow procedures set out in the Operating
Guidelines (para. 46); (b) willingness to accept terms and conditions
specified in subloan agreements (para. 65); and (c) compulsory participation
in the training component. For participation in the training component, the
municipality must comply with the procedures set out in the Operating Guide-
lines.
60.       Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project, which represents a
first pilot phase of the Government's program, would be implemented over a
nine-year period in accordance with the sector profile. All training under
the project would be fully implemented by December 1990. The implementation
period of subprojects is estimated to average 11 months. Loan funds under
FORTAMUN would be committed by October 31, 1993. After allowing for the
completion of final subprojects, the project would be completed by June 30,
1994 and the closing date would be December 31, 1994.
61.       Monitoring and Reporting Requirements.  Because of the pilot nature
of the project, emphasis has been placed upon strengthening the capacity for
monitoring and evaluation at the municipal, state and federal levels. The
monitoring system for FORTAMUN would be detailed in the Operating Guide-
lines. The reporting system would have separate modules which would monitor:
(a) activities relating to subloan requests, authorization, formalization,
actual investment and cost recovery; (b) an inventory of municipal needs in
the areas of financial management, institutional strengthening, and traininig;
and (c) a register of training and funding programs to be implemented after
the technical evaluation of each municipality. The TS would be responsible
for monitoring and evaluation on the basis of quarterly progress reports
prepared by municipalities and implementing agencies. Ouarterly Implementa-
tion Summaries would be forwarded to the Steering Committee and *o the Bank.
The TS would forward annual evaluations of progress in meeting financial,
economic, technical and institutional objectives to the Bank.
Local Finances and Cost Recovery
62.       Through the institutional strengthening and training components,
the project would significantly increase the capacity for resource mobiliza-
t'.on at the municipal level, both by increasing local revenues through
property taxes or general revenues and user charges, as well as by reducing
expenditures through improved administration and maintenance. Capital and
recurrent costs for improvements in roads, sidewalks, drainage, parks and
recreation areas, and residential solid waste connections would be recovered
through general surcharges levied on beneficiaries. User charges would be
applied to recover debt service and operation and maintenance costs for
revenue earning services such as water supply and sewerage, commercial solid
waste infrastructure, utility network expansion, municipal vehicle and equip-
ment maintenance workshops and cemeteries. Rents and fees would cover
capital and recurrent costs of revenue earning investments such as markets,
slaughterhouses, public transport terminals and equipment and vehicles. No
change in existing laws or policies is required to implement cost recovery.
Implementation of satisfactory cost recovery measures under proposed subpro-
jects would be reviewed by BANOBRAS in the context of overall municipal



- 19 -
finances during appraisal of individual subprojects. Subloan agreements
would require full cost recovery of subproject investments, with state and
municipal governments determining specific mixes of user charges and general
tax revenues.
Onlending Terms and Procedures
63.       Appraisal of Sub-borrower.  Appraisal of individual subprojects
would follow a two-step procedure - appraisal of the municipalities and then
of specific subprojects. BANOBRAS would, on the basis of standard informa-
tion supplied by municipalities and compiled in the monitoring system,
appraise the overall financial, technical and institutional capacity of
individual municipalities. On the basis of this general assessment, training
and technical assistance requirements, as well as financial performance
targets, cost recovery measures and borrowing ceilings would be agreed with
the municipality as a precondition for borrowing from tbe MDF.
64.       Subproject Appraisal.  BANOBRAS would, as necessary, assist munici-
palities in preparing the technical, financial, economic and legal subproject
information. Model technical design criteria and standards have been pre-
pared by SEDUE and are incorporated in the Operating Guidelines. Economic
rates of return would be prepared for all subprojects costing more than
US$200,000 equivalent. Once a subproject has been approved by the Division
of FOMENTO (Operations) in BANOBRAS, a subloan agreement (para. 65) would be
signed between the municipality and BANOBRAS. Individual subprojects with an
estimated total cost exceeding the equivalent of US$500,000 would be for-
warded to the Bank for approval. Subproject documentation for works in the
two pilot cities (para. 31) would include: (a) details of the capital
investment plan in the city-in relation to the decentralization program and
an implementation timetable; (b) a financing plan; (c) a fiscal impact study
(assessment of potential tax revenues); and (d) implementation responsibili-
ties, including those of Federal and State agencies (outside the scope of
this project such as schools, housing, hospitals, etc.). Financing would be
made available to municipalities under subloans (para. 65) and grants
(para. 67) which, together, would cover at most 80X of subproject costs.
65.       Subloan Agreements.  Subloans would be approved by the Steering
Committee (para. 56). A draft model subloan agreement has been reviewed by
the Bank and is incorporated in the Operational Manual. Subloans would be
made at interest rates specified in the General Interest Rate Agreement
(GIRA), and according to the following terms: (a) roads, sidewalks, drain-
age, parks and recreation areas - 5 years, including a grace period equal to
the shorter of the construction period or one year; (b) water supply and
sewerage, solid waste infrastructure, municipal vehicle and equipment mainte-
nance workshops - 15 years, including a grace period equal to the shorter of
the construction period or four years; (c) municipal markets, slaughter-
houses, public transport terminals and equipment - 10 years, including a
grace period equal to the shorter of the construction period or three years;
and (d) solid waste equipment and vehicles, and microcomputers and equipment
- 5 years without a grace period.



- 20 -
66.       GIRA is a master agreement, signed between Mexico and the Bank on
August 7, 1984, which covers interest rates in individual loans for credit
programs. It provides for the linking of interest rates to a central refer-
ence rate (an index of average cost of funds to multi-purpose banks - ACF), a
systematic accounting of subsidies, a gradual phasing out of remaining subsi-
dies for most beneficiary categories, periodic adjustment of rates and a
reduction in the dispersion of interest rates. As GIRA does not at present
Include a category for interest rates in respect of urban infrastructure
lending, the Government has agreed to an amendment to the GIRA providing for
the inclusion of such category with the following target rates: 68% of ACF
as of January 1, 1986, and 80% of ACF as of January 1, 1987. Thereafter,
interest rates to be applied to urban Infrastructure lending would be
reviewed under the periodic consultations provided under GIRA. The effec-
tiveness of this amendment to the GIRA would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan.
67.       Matching Grants.  In order to induce municipalities (which had
previously been accustomed to receive straight grants) to rely on credit for
financing infrastructure investments, and to rechannel some current Govern-
ment budgetary support to municipalities into a coordinated effort with
credit funds, a formula of matching grants is proposed. For the purposes of
establishing the proportion of matching grants, municipalities have been
classified into five categories according to the following criteria: (i)
size; (ii) deficiencies in provision of basic services; (iii) priority in the
National Development Plan; and (iv) current revenues. Municipalities in
categories one (most developed) through five (least developed) would be
eligible for 0%, 5%, 10%, 25% and 30% grant (as a percentage of total sub-
project financing), respectively. In any given calendar year, the amount of
grant funds disbursed from the MDF would not exceed 16% of total funds
disbursed from the MDF in respect of subproject investments. BANOBRAS would
review the matching grant formula not later than March 31, 1988 and exchange
views with the Bank on the results of such review.
Justification and Benefits
68.       The principal benefit of the proposed project would be the improved
policy and financial environment for municipal development which would be
necessary for the implementation of the Governmentts decentralization
program. Rationalization of BANOBRAS' policies, practices and procedures for
provision of municipal credit, reinforcement of federal and state agencies'
capacity to provide technical assistance to municipalities, and training
programs would introduce a more rational planning and investment process,
stimulate local resource generation and cost control measures and provide a
reliable source of long-term financing for municipal development. The
improvement of operational and financial management policies and rationaliza-
tion of grant financing for municipal services would lead to reduced demands
on the national budget through greater local resource mobilization. In
addition to significant health and social benefits, the project would have a
positive environmental impact in subproject municipalities. Economic rates
of return (ERR) for similar investments financed by BANOBRAS have ranged from
11% to 30%, with an average of 16%. It is expected that subproject invest-
ments under the proposed project would yield at least comparable returns,



- 21-
particularly in light of lower cost technical solutions which would be
incorporated in subloan agreements. ERRs would be calculated for all
subprojects exceeding the equivalent of USS200,000. On the basis of a sample
of municipalities selected by the Government for implementation in the first
phase of the program, it is anticipated that about 90X of project costs under
municipal strengthening components would finance investments in about 340
municipalities with a population of about 7 million of which 1.7 million or
24% are estimated to be within the poverty group.
Project Risks
69.       The major project risks are: (a) the inherent difficulties in
coordination; (b) the capacity and willingness of BANOBRAS to make appro-
priate changes; and Cc) the possible loss of political momentum. The
establishment of an independent Technical Secretariat and Training Support
Unit, and the definition of clear roles, responsibilities and procedures in
the Operating Guidelines, would reduce difficulties in coordination.
Previous urban and water supply lending operations have been partially
constrained by problems within BANOBRAS. However, the project addresses
these issues. BANOBRAS' coordination of the project preparation effort and
the degree and rapidity with which changes in policy have been processed have
been exemplary and indicate the management's and SHCP's commitment to
change. Finally, the Government would be encouraged to accelerate
implementation within the first five years to obtain a quick feedback, and
also benefit from the momentum set in place by the present Administration.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 5, 1986



-22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page L of 6
TA L           31e
am ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ *|Cl -t In.t. M)4Co  S                                  1
TOTAL                             1972.3       972.3      1972.3
AOSZCULZ3AL                        93.2       *976.4b      979.3.
mm  C)                             ..          ..       2240.0             1675.9                   2L.3
_ ~~Ci
(KILOOA   O1 OCIL 3qmivAL )        339.0       77f.0      1340.0               93.6                    1119.6
WNUULM     AM V*L       3PAu03
PuIATIM.NID-1u   (Cuuams)  37073.0    31176.0    73011.0
3n1 POPULAIU CS 01 TOTAL)           30.6        39.0        66.7                7.77                    41.
POWULATUO nolCTU
1030LL610ION = mm am0 COILI)                             109.4
PZTNA    OWLAUW (KILL                               199.
POPUlATIOPFIN lSWmf                                        1.9
MLTTS PUAT   0633
MM go. a.                         Is..        23.9        3.0                ".0                      34.7
Pr  Sq. MOL 61. LAM               37.7        32.4        74.7               91.1                    16b.9
POPULATION 603srcr 33C1 13C)
0-14   s                         43.6        44.4        43.4               33.                       3i.2
1s-4 Y1u                           1.0        43.9        33.1               37.1                     61.5
63 AMI A309                        3.3         3.3         3.4                4.2                       7.2
POYOATI  630613 3am3 CZ)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.2         2.9                2.4                       1.6
03313                     ~~~        ~~~~~4J  4.7  4.1               3.4                       3.7
CNU=  KM  KM  CPU 30I3)             43.4        43.4        34.0               30.9                      23.4
cUN mm3  AI CU 230)                 12.2         9.7         6.9                3.0                      6.9
cam3  fPvooaioUr   liii              3.3         3.2         2.2                2.0                       L .3
PA7IY  PL*MC
ACP!0.  OAL (TOM)                  ..          3.1      1145.0 J       
usm  CZ    HAMM V63)               ..          ..         3.0 -. 4.3.
11D Or T00 F. Pu GAITA
Cl969-7l-100)                       97.0       100.0       100.0              109.4                    109.1
CIL0M  CZaor IM   i.aMm)         114.0       114.0       129.0              113.2                     131.3
FROUZU  Caml FM V                 4.0         67.0        77.0               ".4                      92.4
OF WICR MNIAL 40 ?MM             29.0   27.0             26.0 It            34.2                      34.5
air, CAGS i-4) O m                  10.7    )     .3         3.0                4.6                      4.7
Lin  MXKC. Ar 31= (13433)           37.0        61.3        6b.6               64.8                      67.2
WANT MM. 3MM  (CM   W               93.0        74.0        32.0               39.7                     53.3
A=SS TO Un1 6iA26 (2101P)
TOTAL                             23.3        49.0        3.0                65.3                      70.2
1                                   ..        6.          *1 3,76.4          705V
uhMAL.                             ..         21.0 0      31.0               "4.2                      57.0
ACCIso T0 UCAT  OIIPOSUL
sI or IOPULATION)
TOUL                                ..        37.0 h      36.056.3                                     39.4
gum*3                              ..         60.0        3 50.1             73.4                      43.9
mORAL                              ..          4.0 7      13.0               25.3                      47.6
POPULATIN PU IuSCLA              1630.0      1310.0         ..              1909.7                    1010.4
POP. PU 5UT3  P33                 3630.0      1390.0         ..               36.2                      7w.5
P. PM NOSPrrAL 33
TOTL                              90A.       970.0         ..               3S2.0                     326.3
a33*3                            570.0 If   1170.0         ..               422.0                     201.9
Wm                                  ..      1370.0         ..              2716.7                   4519.7
A(S31    PU I TD5                     ..         ..          ..                27.5                      20.0
A133AC! SIl  OF 3033163.3-
TOAL                               3.4         5.7
U33A13                             5.1         5.7
RURL                               5.2.        3..
£VgR360 NO. OF  mitsoufs
TOTAL                              2.9         2.3
033*3                              2.6         2.2
guL                                3.4         3.2
TDTAL                               ..        so.9
0331W                              ..         20.7
MEAL~~ ..                            21......



- 23 -
ANEJEX I
T A U  L    A 3A                         Page  2  of  6
NExICO- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATAL 568K
hxIco                     -          1FURINCZ GROs (UCKTF.D AVZAAGES) la
SD T                     CllDST aCMIIT  Tt4ATE) AL   -
eotkb      Lg71./b  RlMC2T          "IDDUa  INCOM           mIL  INCOME
___       iT ssrwtbI  LAT. man"A & CU        IA
ADJUSTED INROLLIICNT RATtOS
PRIAUS  TOTAL                     E0.0       104.0       121.0             106.7                     101.9
MALE                   62.0       106.0       123.0              108.5                    106.2
FEHALZ                 77.0       102.0       I 19.0             104.6                     97.5
SECONDAR?: TOTAL                  11.0        22.0        54.0              44.2                      57.5
6AL1.                  14.0        26.0        54.0               42.7                     04.9
FEDUZ A.0                          17.0        49.0              44.9                      50.0
VOCATIONAL (I Or SECOIDARY)         23.6        26.7        11.A              13.3                      21.0
PUP17'-TEAWU, RATIO
paINANT                           ".0        04.0         37.0              29.9                      25.1
SoUXIII                           13.0        14.0        18.0              16.7                      19.1
PASSZIUNG   CARSITNoUsM  0PM        12.9        24.1        61.3 I            46.0                      54.2
RADIO PZCEVESITo USAE  PoM          89.0       Z73.7       291.3             32S.3                     170.7
TV RE    zIvS/UOUSAIID Pop          17.5        58.5       109.4             112.0                     149.3
INIAPU ("0A11 GENO
NTErREST) CIZCILATICW
PM  TOUSND POPULATXIO              73.3         *-        139.7               1.1                      97.0
CINM  AIINa  ATIENDANCGICAPITA       9.8         4.9         3.8 LL            2.4                       2.7
TOrAL LARO FOCC (7HOU$)          11191.0    14722.0    22196.0
FEMALE (PICNT)                   15.2        17.4        20.5              23.6                      36.3
AGRICUITnRZ (PECENT)              55.1        45.2        35.6 /S           31.4                      60.8
IDWSUIR  (PECET)                  19.3        22.9        25.6              24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATXIO RATE (PERCENT)
itTAL                             30.2        26.8        29.6               33.5                     43.1
VALE                              51.1        47.4        4.6                51.3                     55.1
13131Z                             9.2        10.1        11.9              15.9                      31.4
ECONOMIC UEPEiZT RATIO               1.6         1.7         1.6               1.3                       0.9
i_o wm1
P11m    oar  PIA11 INCOND
ERzE1XD  3
IIIHGEST    O r ISWISEDS           ..          ..
KIOSKs 2a Or 0 oISERoLDs          61.1       60.7        57.7 l
LOa  S 202 OF IUSCS1L              3.4         3.3         2.9
LOEIST 40r Co  uSJI.S              9.8  h      9.9         9.9 I1.
m -
CSTZD ASSOUM  Po          ItCOML
LEVEL CUSS PER CPITA)
URlAN                              ..          ..          ..              288.3
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..              1835.3
EScAT   R       :LATI  PovIm  INcu
LEVEL (USS Pt CAPrIA)
UNMA                               ..          ..        471.0 A           519.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        471.0 7           359.7
ESTrIAT    OP. RECO AROILJT
POVr DI0Ct  LEM  (Z)
UUmm                               ..          ..          .                  ..
RUAL                               ..          ..
MO! AVAILABLE
. T APPLICABLZ
8 o     *S
The xr_p averages for each Indlcator ar pop-*t'o'- *gbted a_Itbt1c mum. Coverag  of contries
aMOnD tbe Indlcatoa depend. an avality et odat ad Is nat unifa.
lb  Dless otharwim  noted, 'tat& for 2960" rfer to any year between 1959 ad 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 end 1971; ad date for "Met Rllnt gatlmste  betwe_ 1981 ad 1983.
Ic  1979; Id 1977;  l. served tam water supply ad  _e;  /f 1962; *L 1960;  /b 1963.
JUNK, 1985



ANNEX I
-24-                                     Page 3 of 6
'uMn-a OF USOCUL IT4CAl
11.AIt.   hediam ima Ikom somam. semisly jeipidowA wha Auagauta  mid Ifbbh It shold ao be .tid th they =By fl balusumile.ely
ceplbi. bus of fth tas of UsaiubW MM= ida    am p ug  med by dibim  coarned. la CONIM do h dais Tu d  ate es. aboaelhsuin. ul to
dusrigaed of mapa kitudeklaict hmdk ad cheraciaVie cmii. major dhUkisoi betwu m onuatise.
Th eMum .1 owipe - (I) the -mi imatny peep of the =ictucon my and (2) a aemuny pee widh  Noewe ige a.p hmoe. thea the Mm"y
gruamp ofthe=sbimet ustly(ssfor "Hl lummeOilEhpoues.pinup whaMlddlse 1.w.Noth Afnlim d Mkde Eam7ichmoe.hmueofst.g
solocdhtu emItlm). athe ado tauI  umap duat do avirui am popWhiem weghted eidhmedc    foinir aec Immmsmo maid ahwow ody websamut
Odof h  numirslmisppbeedateford thiuadlmtmr. Since he coarcofoumuise emus hehdlmdsmue  mpead.  a th mabltyofdeta ..dIatamiaonas.
caidmilo.asheudhewd iadegSaveapeofomindimtartoa odeThe f.avoae ige moly mmoiii. pmpettu te umiof .me ldieteatathsadmoeg
the mintty sd uBum  IIIupII
AREA (thousand sqknL)                                         Cmdr hvh RAwe (jstersmmdj~-Numberor live birth. in the yea
Taed-ToWm StifbO  ara comprisin land are and inland waters;   per dhusand of mid-year populaton I%601IM. and 19M data.
1960 197 and 191 data.                                        Cnd  Dem1 RAe (p.m rhme.md)-Number of death is fth yea
Ap.zlu-.E   Eimate of a imlural area used temporariy or       pe thoasmnd of mid-year popublaion 1960. 1970. and I93 datiL
pemanently forarope, pastrs,mawket andkitchengardenor to      Gros Rupeodwdm Rat-Averag  nmbser of daughter awoa
lie fallo, 1960. 1970 and 1932 data.                          will bear in her normal eproductiv  period if sheeprins
presnt age-specific fertility ratea usually five-year aveages endin
GNP PER CAPIT  (USS-GNP per capita estimates at cunrret       in 1960.1970, and 1933.
Nakt Pries calcutbd by sami conversion metbod as World
Ba  Ada  19B-3bds). 199 dati                                 Fop    h&M6               An1    11t1his  r)Ana num
Emil AtIor (1961-33 basis) 1933 data.                      ber of acceptors of broo devi    derauspices o rnadti
ENERGY CONSUMPIRON PUR CAPITA-Annual apparent                 fail pknn pOwUU*
consumptoro commerciali piomar  energ  (coal and lignite,  FWI5u Pl.wdmrq-fsmr (percen of xmild wmass)-T'be permo-
Petroleum  naturl gas and hydro-. nuclar wa  getrma eec-      t   of marrid Women o* child-bearing ape whom practcing or
tricity) in kilogams or oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception Women
1982 datiL                                                    orchild-bearing age am gerlly women age 15-49. although for
some comuire contracept*ve usg  is nmasu    for other age
POPUIAtION AND VITAL SrATIICS                                 groupsi                                         i
TWWd hJ.Ia ah, MilM-Ybw (thasnu-As ofJuly i; 196  m,1970      FOOD AND NUTRITiON
and 1933 data.
Urhin Pop.Ied.. (panl of  ~   ~  Mha~          J ndex of Feed Prodactku Pew Cepita (156-71 - 160)-Indem of per
U_ Em Pqmiwkw (pomm of Ituai-Ratio of urban to total          capita anual production of all food commodtis P1roduction
population; difrent definitionsof urban areas may affect compar-  cludes anima  feed and seed for agricul    Food commodities
ability of data among counie  1960. 1970. and 1933 dat-       incude primary commodities (eg. sugan  instead of sugr)
Php.hdeuhPerrcdus                                             which are edliblec and contai nsutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Populadio   i yar 2000n-Tbe projeto  of populaion for 2000,   excuded): they compre cereals, root cros puss oi seedWs,
made for each economy epatuey. Stting with informatio  on     vtbles, fruts, nuts, su rne and sgar beets, lestock, and
total popultion by age and sex, fertilty rate mortality rat  and  livestoc product. Aggeg   production ofeach country is based
tenatioa mig rtio  in the baws year 1920. these parameter     on national average producer price wcigh;l 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gerzed  1982 data.
assump     until the populatio became saonary.     Per Capit Sappf of CArks (paca        d      t)-comput-
Sraz.ypepuluo-ls On in which age- and sex-specfic mor-        ad from calorie equivalcnt of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies compris doMestic produc-
frtility at  have simtoanously remand at rplacement lvl        don, imports lss exports, and changes in sock. Net suppi
(nat reproduction rate-I). I suh a population, the birh ate is  excdude anhojl feae  se  for ue i agiutr quantities used in
constat and equl to the death r, te z  strcture is alo        food processeing and losses in disrbuti    Requirementsee
constant. an  the growth rarc is ZOO  The stationary population  estmated by FAO based on phyiological needs for normal activity
sime wpoas matd on the basis of the projected chaaceisti  of  and heath consdeing enironmet tempear  body weigs
the popultion in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distributiou of popution, ad alDowing 10 pent for
raft to replaement iyeel                                       was at household evel 1961. 1970 ad 1912 data.
Popdadons Mnentm-b   the tendency for populao gowth to        Per C_t S"*  of hnutd (asuss pew da)-Protein content of
continue beond the tm  that rpacement-level fertty has been   per capita mu supply of f'o per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is,cven after the net reproduction rate has reached  as abov. Requirements for al countries estacblshed by USDA
unity. Tep  momentum of a population in the year     t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of totai protein per
a ratio of the ulimate stahonary populato  to the popucltion in  day and 20 gram  of anima and pule protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the asoumption that fertility remain  at replace-  should be anil protin. These standardspare lower thno   ity of
ment lve fitom year: onwad, 1935 data.                        75 grams of toa prten and 23 grams of animal protein an an
the po   uie                                                  average for the wold, propoed by FAO in the Third Woed F6Od
Pr sqto Mid-y    population per squ    kike  (100 heh- Supply. 11.1970 and 1932 data.
ar) of total arem; 1960, 1970. and 1933 data.                 Per Capita neutiSa Sqpp r ofom Apeda . Ntuppl-rotein supply
Per sqni.dt agr, dwna Lamd-Computed as above for agricultral  offood derived from animals and pulses in grms per day; 196165,
land only, 1960, 1970. and 1982 dati.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Papulti. Ale Struts. (pwereat-Chidren (0-14 years). woik-     CMW (qez 1-4) Desch Ate (per taimusmd)-Number of deaths of
mng ag (15T 6 years). n retired (65 years and over) as percentage  chiden ae   4 years per tusand childreno  i the same a
of mid-year populaetiom   1960. 1970. and 1933 data. tbe            i a givcn year. For most developing coounies data derived
ARmate (parcear)-coeIL-Annual growth ates of                  from life tables 10, 1970 and 1923 data.
total mid-year population for 195060. 196070. and 1970.03     HEAlTH
piedtio Growt Rt_   asaoovefor-Annual growth rates            Liet Erpfcsam: at B* (yaru)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population or       1960-70, and 1970-t 3 data.      infant would live if pFrvail  pen of mortalty for al Peple



-25-                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth wero to sty the  throgbout is lUe;  PMWe1hr Rado - prwbay. and mcandwy.-Totau s      ts en-
1960. 1970 and 1963 data                                     roLled i pamay Nd       ndaryIeh divided by numbas of
1e  AasIep Raw (p, _im)-Number of infas wbo die              teahs in the ornpondn levels.
berore reaching On yer of as  per thousand live birtn a g
yeas 1960.1970 and 1963 daa.                                 CONSUMPllON
Ac9 a S*  Whew (pUvm  e V,,                9-u     W'&6 Md   hamqer cm" (per oawd Pwwd-ftaepm              r carn corn-
m4-Nhumber of peopl to   ur    ad rl)    raoal               pd  motor car ating le  tban eigt pene; exdudes ambul-
sem  to        watr supply cludi tate  surace wat   or        us, heau. and military vehcles.
untmeatedu unon tmionate wateric amc dstat frcm prrotected   lindi Recover (per sbhe    dpepuheiss)-All types of recevers
bo Wholm apdnpmdmitmyudl)npssun            of tdrrpe-        for rdio boadct to gnel public per thousnd ofppulaon,
tive populaton  In an ubn aum a public fountain or mandp                                 in    ts        n 
located not mo  dt  200 mere fm a hose may be o       d      registtion of alico mse   ws in  e  da fr rnt ye w may
as being within reaonble scmma or tt bous. In rWrl a?n5      Soi b Mo1Mpafrabie wtinwa min drcutrie dab orlish t liynfsin.
reasonable accs would imply tat the hoswif ormebe of tebe n         otbe saw t         couo bEhd b
bouecold do nothave to upnd a disppotot pa of the day        rrJ(-_} (p-Vx receivers ror broadcast
* fetchis the aily's ter                                     to Fgerl public per tomad pop_laio  exdudes unliced TV
Awag to Ewu  Diped (pwme  qof,                               receiv  in countri and in yer who rqe    tio of TV sets w,s
and Nwl-Number of people (totaL urba  a   rural) wserd by
exrt diposa a perentg  of their respective popuL                 _C  d_-S                                       dw atier-
Ecetz dispod may include the collction and dispomL wirh or   age ouatio  of -daiy gene  inte    newspa,w defined as a
witbout trat_ment of human cret an waste-water by water-     podcal pubWcato  devoted primarily to rcodin gner nes
borne systems or the ue of pit privie aW snih insutaladto    It is consred to be `dl  if it appea at kwt four times a wek.
JPeIark  pPr Physdhd-4pulation divided by number of prac.    C1      A 1 Aaner pr CapitG per Yew-Baud on the
saing physcian quaiid rrm a medicad achool at univernity veL  number ofices sold duing the year, incuding admiions to
Pi _ ' Pipe NmAw  Pbs.ae.-fpua     divided by number of      drive-i cina and mobie uts
p    rcii  male and flema  grdu    narees,  DtM   nw,
pmldf nmaa gnn nurrses, astuin.                              LABOR FORCE
?P,r  par H             -4 wis, md A w           rputL                        t e         Ey  t  po 
(total urbn   d a rurl divied by thekir respecive nmber of   dudg armed forces and unemployed but excludi   housewives
bapal beds availbk m PUMW ad wivatr. Wmal oW ommUnd         students. c. covering population of a1 ags. Definitios in
hospitals a        in po    d    pital a                     variusi countries are not compble; 19601970 and 193 data.
pemanendy sald by at kla one physician. Estbshmets prov-     remal (p  ew)-Famale lbor force as percenta  of totl labor
iding pricpay custodial c   ae not inlduded. Rurl hoskpal    fm
however. inude heb and nedical cant  not permanently sfd      Agrimm  (pwuaQ-Labor foe in farming forety, huntg
by a physidi  (but by a medical ,asian  nuaic, mduif, ec)    and fishing a percentage of toal labor fom; 1960. 1970 and 1980
wIch offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited rang  data.
of medial facilities                                         ldasrY (Pownt)-labor forme in mining, contuct   manu-
AAde.s pgr Hmspiial lad-Total number of admissions to or     facringad ectcity. wtr and gps as pertuage of total labor
dicharges from hospitals divided by the number of bedL       fome; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
HOUSING                                       pdp ~~~~~~k*eb  lte(Pp.csI-4t4 d, k. feefiP  rticpation
HOUI;ING                                                    or actiy r   are compuled a totaL male,d female la  force
Avwqf Nigs .1 HbH  ( prnem    heaseheld)-esed, wArn,         as percen   of toal, mak ad fmae population of all ags
rdmf-A househod const or ago  of inividuals who share        rectvely; 1960, 1970. and 1913 data Ths are bused on IL's
livig quare  and their n meal A boader or lodgr my or        paticpatnrtesrectinig 4ag-s  strctuortbe population, and
may not bc inclued in the houwseold for stdstc  purpos.      long time trd. A few estimate am from natonl source
AveNge Nam_ of P_wsein per Raem-eu   r&.n sd vwD-            Ecan    Depademp R-J-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of prons per room in al urban and mral        65 and over, to th worldng age popuation (thos aged 15-).
occupied conventional dwells, rpectvely. Dwel    exclude
non-permanent suctres and unoccupied pat                     INCOME DISTRll}lMON
h-Mutq  of Dw~Eq With rkois-eat11, wA1,610116-               Iwmrqe Of Tara DirPesmd  lacme (helk le cah sad Awd)-
Conventional dwllinp witb electricity in lving qurts as pen-  Accruing to perenti groups of ousholsradbytothousle
tage of totaL uban, and nrual dwdlig resptively.             bold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TAtGEr GROUPS
A40aed EAwW.ar Ranw                                          The fooing es tes re very approximate measures of povety
Pr,ry sxoo, - roai ,mraf m     -ak-Gros totat d              leW kves, and should be intepreted with considrable caut
rfma eaxollment of a ag  at the primuay levd a percntae of   £iWedA         e Fve _et rIncome Levd (USS pe%qt)-u'h.
rsctiv pmary school-a  populations. While many countries      sd ravul-Absolute poverty inome lvel is that incom  level
consider prinry scool ag to be 6.11 yeas othes do no The     below which a minimal nutritionly adequate diet plus essential
differe    in muntry prc  i the ages and duraio of cool      non-food rXquirements is not affordable.
ar reflected in the ratio  iven For some countrines with Universa  EsrLwu Ra*eier hwy Inc   Led (US$ pw caqit-w6w
educato  gss enrolment may exeed 100 pe t since smne                  -Rural relative poveny ime l      s one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  avea  per capita pesonal income of the country. Urban level is
age                                                          derived from the rural klv  with adjusument for higher cost of
Semdvy shad - fonadL    e aidfern--Comput  as above;         Eving in urban
seonr edaion requir  at klst four yea  of approved pr-       Euhmv*d f4plsa. kie  Ahsear PoverV Amw Leelr (pea
nmay           provides PgnL voca-ionalreor teache  tan          j-.n ad rind-  kent of poplation (urban and rura
istrutons for pupis usally of 12 to 17 year of age correspond.  who ar -absolute poor.-
cow cowss ar generly excluded
VoKzdal Emviueni (peren of sj-dwy)-Vocational insitu-                  Comparative Anays and Data DivSon.
bons include techncaL industri, or otber prrams whnch opate          Economic Analysis and Poections Department
independendY or a deprtmnts of seoday inutitutions                                   June 1985



- a -
--   -     n  -t -                  -                                        ma
NUOL~~~~~~~~~~~~£ M1111_ 1111 -11 11  gX  lm mm  110 I
mm   ion   mom  lamat      1   m   mm  au        mm -|   iotan-n io. ants mm-a             mon  1w   mon   moo
m                              IB  1 t  1133 3JLIM3111it3 .   ma. 1sta   as1  atm.  JIJI 3in  am1.i.   LU   Ln   041   Lm  aMa  mmm  aIa"  as
1mw *  MAE mum                 -at    -     L     LU   -LU      t  -LU         -LN 4.   -as s    - .   .  .                -     L.3   -t.0  -L.U
nLIa. mm                       ts   a La    n   Nat  Mn   L.a  its  Mt Os  =A                Ln   LO  -.    its            oat  1t.1  ImOa  to
tmutm   Wla.aL    Itl  t1) L"    u.   IL.   NLJ                                tam    ta"  tM    LU   LU ILM t.L    19.l
XN  I.L                        -     -b -LI   -  -at R.lt  tam t     .s Ltit  as mL  .  . .TM-L .t   -am   tam  aLmi
1s_wIIH                        IL51   I"J   HL   lLVS Hla  IX.V  OL   H"    MAHU   W.0 ll      l   LO H    .19   ab        II.&  n7.z  /Lt4  n.a
_111                           OLa  amt.3  as   a1a  mu4  ma   m         aX ass  tA   mL"  LU   Is   -as16  LBi            3.5   LsI  a ea   2L5a
_am                             .      .   _t,  _a    as   lItat  LM tat  XSL   SLi    LUt  Lu5 -bH    Lx                  n.m  its   ata   ta 2 
in    MN mm                    -1m1a  -Lu  -4.1  -La  -mmaS -1ma -a1.  -ahm   -32  -mas  1tm   u.s  -am    m.m            -a.s  -W   -16e  -Lu
N oT. UNO                     Imu   b.a   i.5    -    u.s  na   sti   1.   316Ln tLO    LU   0.5  -LO   ILU                Lma  u-as  mLa   16a3i
men -                                                                                                                               saws
macum aNMms m                                      u     i      aumj   m.          i    .      a gm m           a            .   Ls   I    ma 
AMMININNE              ~~ILH   ILM   I16  MA- I6Y1"    L    11.21  6.H    A 11F .2  a2   L       1.0 l G.M          .9    LtJ LA   L
_ut as                         ait   us   am.n  a.s  70.  u.3  iLl?  iLK    tS  u.n        LU   La   LS         U          J2.15  IO   im.iYa  its
eIans                          ama  iLs  mats  maw  maLlt Sutu  taIn  m.am  ?m   ii2s  6L7   LU   -Ln   IX                 ILl   5th  IL"   isa
nom inDOW   1111urnC SIM111            s   mum, M I"Iam
urns  aN                          a     NO  sm   no _RI   na               m      -    3000IVX
MUM                               M   as   so   sM   Nm   am    m          in  Wo"  m
a_s   _                          m u,  mx  mini  Imm   c               t   a"   aim  1
warn                    mau   istmas   nn   a.          m   a      am   Zso    s
mJ,111 a11 11srat   am   na    Na    mm  in3  St    an   am  IIa
PgajUmmf m                      21   as  am   low   aHi   Nor  lama  Ma    in  gI
_ANt a, Imt Mt   ia   3m                            I S    4i    Si   Ma    M    HU ma  M
mamIm     maum                  M      six   tn   omt  us            mm M    so    o  s1mu
*-    -I|l mmmmm
MI 011_111 m1                   t    u t.. aui   u. l                    mm i
miM-   -                       n.m  ito  mm.  mama  Lma  "JI  mao  wasI I"
n0 MIIRII                      =M   &LI  MM  I1   MM   tLII  IL"   06U   MM
aw n                            1.41  am3  amma.    aMAIU. am aL  "M   "As
W _Em                          aIt 1.   aMA  as    us   a.   11.  iLaS maLm
m anx au  x sa   mama.
atILMF Paz mm                         S     s     am    s    .    a  Mm tansi
111111                          t1am   Las   LO  4-   -LI   4*   -1U   -La   -L7   Los
S                               _  171  t   t.1  aLE  ILa     iB   LB   La   LU   is
ori  -n                        -La  -LU   -LA  -SLi  -ItS   -U   4.   4         -.0  -i.U1 -144
_gamm   w     mIS S P"                                                                                             aom.
DECO 13111111111    1111_ WmII                                                                                   t
. S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3LI t"   33J    I L7                                                          11.0
-   msrm muna                                                                                                   mo.L  rn ULN  1rL
-mI O 1        m      -               te .  at a11    aVL                                                      7.t7
_m      a                        .   sum  u.s  nsa  amait
maIm                    .             LO   ILK  EtA Jai                              1Li
a   ma  man'                                H tar  itoi  m  a
a.siu                            .   as.m  it    31ts   as aDm
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i _LIM 7                   IIJIS IL3 1                                                   3 L2
_ iaJ                            -X 7.   LUt  L5   LU                                                          L7U 
a_-  stI    ia  a.ln  m1 i.s
_m                             QlbILJ  4L                    _|l                 I  3a M                                         oU1z
!outm                  migim                                                                     191111111 u1
: ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    o    am                 moss  us              mom-                 ar    tn                        n io
-AMIII                          i.a   Wa                 .   21,1                LAO               L     LU                      1LSt  IAt
MNuST                           2ii   LOP             2Na   5.5                  La               atm  aIo"                     asat3 ate
011110                          LO   LU                 mmS  itS                 LUS               o.A  am3n                   aI"   1tat
I                    ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~4111.-1111111
si  Muss.W3m i
a VP. en-m,             amaium
- mamor m.mIl
,- sna-
a   sD,    im1_                                                                                            _  _   _ _  _  _   _  _



- 27 -
UMa  y111w, On  mamma  - 1i                                                                        Mt I
MM~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                 IIU171* OF       "111                                                                 E *F
~~~~~~~~~~~~~urm m                                                                n     mat                                 F                                  aws&
ElUT  tl1101  ItF51                         3117    093    23       24        134 2t1Dt      38423   2U17             403
31115 3131 6533F tS                         12    "13   23MI   34           237     32M3   . MI   1I    MY   37
Ella   IJAl                                 -7*5   -3117   -D8      -4       U94    1433  324         796    "93       9M
NtE FP3t0  ICE                              -419   -3459   -4N3     -3t    -1210   -3    -3323    -3   -6             -9
IIM"  FM92313                            -29    -32   -313   -3332  -33    -319   -1106   -2I343    -93*3   -97U
£33313  acmIT  Am                          -12ia    -37    -72Zt  -34       .22      924      3       -D t  21            7
PtI3A1  DIMCT IWESIIS                        13      234    3354    It39    137       4        391     430     s1o      9
11LIC M13. AN 3.3  I i U  S, EI             221    2*       4574    91       *479    2*43   n1    -31          331     1943
saunus                o ri                        4421 am9         mu       -       3        m      2nn      7132    93O
tE03                                      37 *It 4130    46        37      47       343     MI3   M6         3R      Im
INF nIETI                                    -        -     -IZ     -10       223   1ON       229      "       S!    -971
31l13 WITAL                                 9OI    427*    34*       2733   -674   -3124   -ZZII  -2DU*   -2734    -341
OIIS   IN  fIIB      t-lIttD                -102    -US    -3l1      -3Z     473   -4*3l   -343       30    -2N    -2340
M5 .DCt                                      45    -    74    7-                                                        -
SW   M  LOII a4111t
rELI Kg. 36 L.T. LOW
i3                                        14.m0  31L..   a2LO  1323.0   323.S   743.3
*il..                                                ..      ...        ...   ...
DIS ELTILAIEIE                            112.6  321.3  3SLOO   291.S   tl2         MU2
6EMIl                                      79.93  21L13   9.O   U713 l2MIl    221070
S363L.3                                    74.00  167.90   5L3    39.03   237.213  13.70
PM     AFIUI FEIC    IStITITIS            37.41 3M3.40  479t0  153   111439.3  19.43
RItE MU3 331516363 DM 3113               3256.33 32432.1 3371.03 4233.93 3513.1  U113.73 66411,48,                                                       131336 EDT
-mlu iF 3 I U4Q7 74 S . M7 T131333 *1
himE  INS  pa   EDT O                    2316.46  121.   361.93,11  479.93  *30   .31 *3315.73L7                                                     3357623  36   U3
E3N1150 M PM-IC  MT                       473.10  1732     489.70 3*9.23    SILt 3393  244D.33
RELIC 3131 Sa1CE tET J                    *920   1i   7501  I7.13    2240 99364.3  M*.                                                                   M  M  31, 393
NEED 03  o31 EM36  IF                                                                                                               MLL 11  LT.
RELIC 3E8 13U 71L)           D        22.2     229   32S   3.34    LU         4 36.*4   3L275                                      L-                             LMIS   P3IJ
in                                   3111    4.11
336E TEM  IF PLliC C   Ell MISTS mNW   FF.                                                                                                                              4310    1.47
a.   TE  AS1 IF PMlE IWt'S                7.43   30.33    23.6    14.9     34.35   Its    31.2*                                  lIEl  M391E                          39n 2     LE
M. U'  mITIT OF 10 Li                     -      L'  O  9."     L37       L7      3.0      9.31
a. 1MLLMO.t 6O.ff1F                      3L32     LE      113    3.74      3.3 4B     3    44t3S
RELIC LB. Al IL
I. I  EM    SEIVtES 4 IF                  7.   J4 L         8 LB   3A      L4      L2       32
IC   MTR SW"IME
11 ML Fli  MMS TEI  36I LM          S M   TED ILC KIEDT SL  It.
2    DL  E    E OIL MICE IF LS 20 P13Et   .
...UT 33313.113.E SE     Y 3 F IUt l   D IDE TOTS.L
1D1    M   IF 7     ClN.lMK SW B2VAIES
F_lM n, IV



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1985)
Loan                                                             Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year     Borrower   Purpose                           Cancellations   bursed
59 loans fully disbursed                      3,611.19
1706-5    1979     NAFINSA    Irrigation                             92.00       40.53
1712-5    1980     NAFINSA    Industry                              175.00       22.60
1820-5    1980     NAFINSA    Small/Medium Scale Mining              40.00        14.24
1858-5    1980     NAFINSA    Irrigation                            160.00       132.10
1881-5    1981     NAFINSA    Small/Medium Scale Industry           100.00        0.46
1908      1981     NAFINSA    Irrigation                             23.00        1.70
1913      1981     BANOBRAS   Water Supply                          125.00       59.03
1929      1981     BANOBRAUS   Railways                             150.00       36.45
1945      1981     NAFINSA    Rainfed Agriculture                   264.60       78.81
1964      1981     BANPESCA   Port Development                        5.45         1.51
1990      1981     BANOBRAS   Urban Development II                  164.00      115.49
2042      1982     NAFINSA    Technical Training                     90.00         1.01
2043      1982     NAFINSA    Integrated Rural Development          175.00       56.42
2100      1982     NAFINSA    Irrigation. Rehab II                   65.00       56.26
2142      1982     NAFINSA    Capital Goods Industry                152.30       103.62
2154      1982     NAFINSA    Pollution Control                      25.00        13.99
2191      1983     NAFINSA    San Fernando Agri.                     48.40       31.36
2194      1983     BANOBRAS   Urban Engineering                       9.20        6.11
2262      1983     NAFINSA    Agri. Marketing                       115.00       82.70
2281      1983     BANOBRAS   Third Water Supply                    IOC.30       81.52
2325      1983     NAFINSA    Third Small/Medium Industry           175.00       98.94
2331      1983     BANCOMEXT  Export Development                    350.00      243.20
2428      1984     BANOBRAS   Highways                              200.00       139.08
2450      1984     BANPESCA   Ports                                  76.30       68.44
2454      1984     NAFINSA    Agricultural Credit                   300.00       25.16
25253/    1985     NAFINSA    Chiapas Rural Roads                    22.00       22.00
2526S/    1985     NAFINSA    Chiapas Agric. Dev.                    90.00       90.00
2546S/    1985     NAFINSA    Small/Med. Scale Industry II          105.00      105.00
25593/    1985     NAFINSA    Vocational Education                   81.00       81.00
2575S/    1985     BANOBRAS   Railways V                            300.00      300.00
26103/    1986     NAFINSA    Agricultural Credit                   180.00      180.00
2612S/    1986     BANOBRAS   Low-Income Housing                    150.00      150.00
TOTAL                                           7,719.74
Of which has been repaid to the Bank            1,544.13
Total now outstanding                           6,175.61
Amount sold                  92.34
of which has been repaid    92.34                   0.00
Total now held by Bank 2/                       6,175.61
Total undisbursed                                           2,438.73
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/  Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of Septemher 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                       USS Million
Year           Obligor                      Type of Business            Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1                Industrial Equipment           0.8    --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul               0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1              Twist Drills                   0.3            0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidor. Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                              2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                        Steel                          0.9    0.1      1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1          Sodium Sulphate                0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment             --      2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1         Iron Ore Mining                1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./1         Textiles                      12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                     /2     /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.            Cement                        15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel              Tourism                        1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                     Steel                         12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.           Pulp and Paper                10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                    19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3         Cement                       168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                            --      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -             18.0
1980      Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                    25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Piano de Mexico
S.A. /3                        Flat Glass                   114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3               Mining                        110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                    59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                      Agri-Business                  11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                     Motor Vehicles
and Accessories             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility            Industrial Equipment         100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                         Cotton Seed Flour              2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                       16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                       705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                     550.7   22.1  572.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                             155.0   26.1  181.1
Total Undishursed (including participants)                    150.4    6.5  156.9
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
/3    Gross commitment including amouncs sold to participants.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO: MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:        One year
(b)  Project Prepared by:                 BANOBRAS, SEDUE, SHCP, SG and
SPP
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:      August 1984
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:      August 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:           February 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The Government's Program for the Strengthening of Municipalities
(FORTAMUN) would be formally established under a mandate from SHCP to
BANOBRAS, on terms aceeptable to the Bank, as a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (para. 46).
2.   BANOBRAS would, as a condition of effectiveness, enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Government providing
for the transfer of loan funds to the Government for the purposes oF
carrying out FORTAMUN and repayment of the loan by the Government
(para. 52).
3.  BANOBRAS would implement administrative and operational measures at the
regional and state levels, as required for the timely implementation of
the Project, including mechanisms for the promotion of FORTAMUJN and for
the provision of financial services required by eligible municipalities
in connection with the execution of subprojects (para. 34).
4.  A Municipal Development Fund (MDF) would be established to provide
subloans and grants for subprojects to be implemented by municipalities
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Principal and
interest payments on subloans would be deposited in the MDF and further
onlent to municipalities for the purposes of expanding FORTAMUN
(paraa. 49 and 52).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
5.   The approval of Operating Guidelines, on terms acceptable to the Bank,
by the Guarantor and BANOBRAS, would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (para. 46).
6.   BANOBRAS would agree to follow policies and procedures as outlined in
the Operating Guidelines, and would not make any changes in the
Guidelines which would materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project (para. 46).
7.   The Government would agree to an amendment to the General Interest Rate
Agreement (GIRA) providing for the inclusion of urban infrastructure
credit with the following target rates: 68% of ACF as of January 1,
1986 and 80% of ACF as of January 1, 1987. The effectiveness of this
amendment would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(para. 66).
8.   In any given calendar year, the amount of grant funds disbursed from the
MDF would not exceed 16% of total funds disbursed from the MDF in
respect of subproject investments. BANOBRAS would review the matching
grant formula not later than March 31, 1988 and exchange views with the
Bank on the results of such review (para. 67).



