Docic.ent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL ISE ONLY
Report No.
I't1(:T  ('(MI'IT.1;I'   N   P1:1'MiT
Cli I NA
';-VE(:()N    At' ('lil1.TilRA:, i IMIC(ATI'ION   iR)s
(I ()AN   C2 '1F'      }iA/('kIl)l I  I ,lJ  (rli(
iV l   I I 1!       4I-O                  V I T CO,.
zi'f l  V r fri Pvc! i               it (i)cT ;)  i t I  ; I    I   Vii
C,ciunft-          Dcp   \'  I (rtnw, fl 1(  I (('iliiivi .d  M0y,o      , j i,
I :i~ t             t I . 1 P(1  cKir   i   Kf e   ici;m1 i Or I   icc
This document has a restrictcd  distribution, and  mas  be used  b% recipients onIs  in  the perfermance of
their officiAl duties. Itv contents rna, Doi otl-er%isc be disclosed %ithout U~orid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
A, apl)raisal        US$1 = Renminbi Yutn (Y) 2.()
At completion        US$1 = Renminhi Y 5.55
ACADENIIC Y EAR
September I - August 31
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
MAAF          Nlinistry of Agricultwre, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
MF            Ministry of Forestry
MWC           Ministry of Water Conservancy
PCR           Project Completion Report
PO            Project Office
RMB           Renminbi
SMA           State Meteorology Administration
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICLAL IJSE ONLY
THE WORLD BAN>.
Washington, D.C 20433
U S A.
Offioe of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
Octohcr ">, Il9 
MEMORA.MNI)       TO'10lIE FXECU11UVE MRECTrRS A-1) TI[1l l'RLKSll)lN !
SUrBJECr:   Project Completion Report on China
Second Agricultural Education' Project .Ln. 2444.CHACr 1500-CHA)
Attached is Oie Project Cornpletion Report on China - Sccond Agricultural Education
Project (Ln. 2444-CHA/Ci. 1500-CHA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Oftice. Part 11
was prepared by the Borrower.
The thrust of the project was to diversify agricultaral education at the post-secondary levc!
introduce it at secondary level and support agricultural extcnsion training. I. ran concurrently with the
A)gricultural Education and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CHA) which concentrated on higher education
In a period when the demand for middle and higher level agricultural manpower was grossly inr excess ot
supply. the project meL its targets tor expanding and equipping the numbers and types of agricultural
training institutions across the countr, and for student intake and output. It was particulairly successLfI in
developing model colleges and an agriculture library service and food science department. it uas less
successful in quality improvemenit in terms of staff upgrading and div. rsifving course delivers methods an2
materials. These areas of deficiency were accentuated by loss of personnel who did not return from
foreign training and from failure to use most of the technical assistance. Despite these shortcomilgs.
priority objectives Aere attained and the project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
Project management learnecd from experience aind performed creatively to addrtcrs
impleimentation issucs in liaison w ith the Bank, despite problems with funds for operations, superwision
and equipment maintenance. But project managerment was overloaded, particularly with regard t , its
ability to coordinate various ministries, supervise construction in remote areas, control the feilowship
prograrm and introduce manpower analysis capacity and broader planning for the agriculture trainini
system. College management capacity building was sirgled out in the PCR as especially deficient mainly
becausc of the failure to utilize technical assistanc and staff training opportunities. Institutional
development is rated as partial.
Sustainability is uncertain. Th,e PCR underscores a likely continued shortage of Operations
and Maintenance funds for buildings and equipment and the loss of staff on fellowships overseas as major
concerns. On the other hand, it estimates that the innovations in the library and food science
dt-partment, the foreign language training and some improvements in management practices are
achievements that will endure.
The project is planned for audit as part oi a cluster includirig the Polytechnic and T'I'
University Project. Cr. 141 1-CHA, and the ongoing Vocationai ard Technical Education Project.
Cr. 2114-CHA.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and mey be used by recipients cnly in the per'ormarnce of their official
duties. fts contents may not otnerwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



FOR OFFICAIA. USF O)NL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
C1HiNA
SECOND AGRICIJLTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LN.2444-CHA/CR. 1500-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface         ..  ..............................................
Evaluation Surnmary   .........................                                                            ......
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ................
Proj ec!  Identity    ...............
2.  Background   ............................................
3. Project Objectives and Description ...................
4.  Project Design and Organization ..........................
5   Project Implementation   ..              .............................
6. Project Results .........
7.  Project Sustainahility ..................................                                               ..    ...
8.  Bank Performance   .........    .....                                                  ............
9. Bor-rower Performance ...........X
10. Project Relationship                             . .............
11. CoLsulting Services  .. .....                ....................
12.  Lessons Learned .............................                                             ......    .    .
PART' ": PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                                      0............
PART IHL  STAT'ISTICAL INFORMATION  .........                                              .............. .
ITable I  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits    ....................
Table 2. Project Time T'able ...................................    .
Table 3. Disburseinent ...........
Table 4. Proiect Implementation                          ............ ..........
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing  .................................
Table 6. Project Results .....                           .............................
Table 7. Status of Covenants  ......                  ...........             ..      ...
Tatble 8. Use of Bank Resources .........................
; 5 A,            ppr  -     7!> >-  
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties, Its contents may rot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatior.



PROJECT CONIPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LN.2444-CHA/CR.1500-CHIA)
PREFACE
1his is the Projtct Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Agricultural Education
Project in the People's Republic of China, for which Loan 2444-CHA in the amount of US$45.3
million and Credit 1500-CHA in the amount of SDR 22.0 million (US$23.5 million equivalent) were
approved on June 14, 1984. The credit was completely disbursed by February 5, 1988 while the loan
closed on June 30, 1992, one year behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement
was on August 20, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Environment, Human Resources and Urban
Development Divisior, Country Department 11, Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Pait 11).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in June 1992, and is based, intet alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan aiid Credit
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal
Bank menmoranda.



hM() J( 'I ( O)'1 i i;It I)N  1IJ P(UT
CII (N A
( I N ..?4 44(.fl II   ;( R . I 0 +)( 1   .I s  .)
jA  ,,r . Li V.!I' S{ ) >N iid ' \ M   ARA§t
Introd   ction
I         In the eCarl!'r  19           Chint WU> U            ;<  .L1L01 L 2iI &          ." c)nimoini  1'  fil z  th:it connitr l:c'
to adjustrnmelnt and stahilzation  t.<                   k2!  t> c&)[Ii;     tI .kv;pit; iA!rrpss w1 rt'l' VlrtOWth           dts IfiflCt
]978-82, the couLntry faced  a jiunihh2    oi               , col         c rIu    I      V > 2 I'     lrt LI    S    et iIied  mi n1  I o  c'T
In the agriculture setor. thr   (3i Goelt'.llln,t'.t ISo : \cA2                         Ir 'OA AUiLA U .  ut u  r I: sod   ee n o2t il iZ.4
pr tduction Planning and management Io, } t)! psn(l:ti0'n    . -,and  trI  In Uv2h,)lJ Id1    I d s   I1 >'ITlhd   or
the availability  ot wel'-trainrei ,fnrotessionra  an.k  intdtudi   leL,  mI n!1 o. er    t t  dl c t .                    pnjc.x;t
ap)praiSal, the delllnriJ d       1' hr   Ori",IIt U TO          \  QYC K               I.
O bjeocti'es,
2          iThe  prrO je<: tz ijtStiv,'  WO>i' ti' ll:ti    X*ti Oi 'Ul .r's1.''¢ [   Uti  Ur;/t tri.' poIe<t                ou.xle  arni!
iniddle level agricul turo! minanp; lv jc r,                      o it i               U~ji Ih'.' '' !t~  I I A ns itUt AnIS i C
training  an,d exten.~ion  suppnrlr  cente'.\. :2  Ut    r  e'                                      ' Oft' le          O)fl  SUpr)t 0
tac'iitieS.  It waS deSigne tlO    ci tin  c a    U                       c';r>(        P       '      i ''      hc i)I'IA1v'J U' ..lJ.-loito1I
provided  unlder thne AgricullUre  ld. LIi,t,I       lt '-.oi  tl.o             j' it                     H A
Inipleniewitation  Experietce
3.        The rs:ojec      aS  ml   en;entcd  r   It i                                  .w !otj, hwi;':   0
M inistry of' AguricultueL. Animal h u.>i)oind\ilt u ,                  I IIi A A [ -    Al t}ouuh the sxra e ottif>s
imnp!enimntoni tlic first ao> iC4ulttu j iicId ;i: ;-     t i  .!   A          0UJ j ol dfa,tv  upon thel<. I;      oies ,tLrO      in'
that operat ion because the rim-I A'     K               t i    O      ') C  .>          o i;t: v..s ti   h'
4.         Civil XVorks.  T71e0 actual  irei 'o1mni,1   s'O              s aIloh     i   peretnit iess Chiu.   opriis    eStimnates
because the orig-inal targets o tf '           iTW   ot   .,    _tv imobsi'us  iouihi sn;l'                                     'ci .  in
genieral, supervision Iissi'loS renourted  adyenJU,11 .so             l tO mmlt,.                                     eLjU-             r-n j!
it arrived
S.         Equipniew.  M;Jst ofL 1ti                          p '31   ' .      t.         *   ,v        -    i.   !rol3! wa:;;
effe'.ctive.  International    mpertr             t Lo                 .         '         T        l- l             p           ' m  A
ohjci,rion ii  hid aw;ards  nt): 00101    ol-   l1                                     '      . 7,
Borrower andJ the  Balnk  in thii  Pr>O              -                   V       . .I p                                   ,..,
Was procUred  towards iiWe en  0t  tiht                                   r! * '   I. ?r.   te 1(10.    d ' i0'    '    l j(                I
ts9Liif)Ut)<rtt p  s,?<:szi.;ii>e42   t ,li.JL.   'O'O.'OJ~   ~'I' i'.J''; i                             ;  t                   ' .i.,
ins! itijtinns were rep orti    s ino       i  .                                                   i, .
6.         OverSeisFelalowshi ps.  T'1d   nu;>htL 't   i- c,1.   >l, .;-c1               .   r   'cr-cc' i'w    no  fa1r    ced14
appraisat estimates.  The Bank r01sed   cmerri th.: a lar.c rnop rri on  P s,;                                    1    NI Sc  dlgAr-ee



- iv -
were remaining overseas to complete PhID programs, resulting in an absence ot' an average of five
years. At the end of the project, only 34 percent of the students on degree studies had returned.
7.     Technical Assistance. The Borrower did not appoint members to the Inteinational Advisory
Panel, which was to assist in the selection of seminar leaders and advise on seminar .rrangements,
evaluation, and curriculum development. By mid-1988, only 11 percent of the funds for technical
as.sistance had been dishursed. The Government pointed ouit that project funds for technical assistance
were not needed because there was, at the time, tremendous interest among overseas specialists to
worl in China, often on a gratis basis. It requested a reallocation of funds to other categories, to
whicn the Bank agreed. In retrospect, the techniLal assistance componenit of the project was poorly
designed and the Borrower never understood the need for such a large program.
8.     Model Facilities. Construction of the library at Beijing Agricultural University did not start
until January 1988, about two years behind schedule because of disagreements over the design
between MAAF and the universiiy. The library was completed in early 1991. The constru,tion of
the ftood science department at the Central China Agricultural College was similarly delayed. It was
completed at the end of 1989.
9.     Project Evaluation, Planning and Preparation of Future Project. Some institutions
conducted annual tracer surveys on graduates to monitor the effectiveness of Government policies in
developing agricultural manpower. But at a time when virtually all graduates were provided jobs bv
government agencies, the tracer study was not of much interest to the Borrower. Agricultural
manpower studies modelled after the one done in Jiangsu under the first project were not carried out
:n other provinces as envisioned in the SArP due to the unwillingness of other provinces to participate.
Project Results
10.    As a result of the two Bank-financed agriculture education projects as well as other
Government and donor investments, China has established a comprehernsive agricultural education
system, which would need continuous upgrading and adequate resources to sustain. Specifically, the
project achieved its objective of improving the quality of project institutions as well as increasing the
supply of professionals and technicians needed for China's agricultural modernization program.
However, the level of achievement in some areas was less than projected in the SAR due to such
reasons as the low return rate of overseas fellows and the recurrent cost constraint (rable 6). At the
end of the projcct, cnrollmcent and output taigetz as crvisioned at appraisal were mostiy reached or
exceeded, except those in postgraduate programs. High level agricultural manpower for cesearch and
education would continue to be in short supply. Quality improvement was more difficult to measure
but could be seen in the increased usage of equipment for teaching and the conduct of experiments,
and the number of new specialties. Improvements in college management were also less than target
partly because of the failure to recruit technical assistance as outlined in the SAR and partly because
of difficulties in changing entrenched habits. Management advances were made in areas such as
library management, teacher:student ratio, and space utilization, although some indicators were not up
to appraisal estimates.
Project Sustainaiility
11.    Project equipment would continue to have an impact on the quality of education, although
shortage of funds for recurrent costs is likely to hamper its operation and maintenance. After the
massive investments in education in the last decade, many of them financed by the Bank Group, the



Government has not been able to keep up with the recurrent cost requirements. 'The issue needs to be
examined in a country and sectoral context. Several other aspects tf the project would have iong-
lasting impact: (a) the model facilities of the library an(d food science department; (b) the language
training programs; (c) the development plan tor secondary agricultural schools; and (d) improvements
in college management. Staff returned from overseas studies would also continue to play an
important role, but the low return rate of degree students had dampened their impact.
Lessons Learned
12.    The main lessons learned are: (a) a Borrower's commitment is essential to project success.
In this project, rrost aspects were satisfactoriiy implemented. Technical assistance was the exception
because the Borrower had other sources and did not see a need to use project finds for this purpose;
(b) the project was prepared shortiy after the first agricultural education project became effective and
therefore could not drav. upon the lessons learned trom the first operation. There should be sufficient
time lapse between related projects if improvements in design and implementation are to be made;
(c) to maximize the effectiveness of overseas fellows, it would have been advisable to require MSc.
graduates to return to the country for a few years of teaching before selectively sending some back
for doctoral training; (d) early action in equipment procurement is essential; and (e) the issue of
recurrent cost should be looked at in a wider context, as a function of the Bank's sector work and
assistance strategv.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CIIINA
SECOND A(GRICULTIJRAL EDV rATION PROJECT
(LN.2444-CHA/CR. 1 5C0-CIIA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
i. I    Name                         Second Agricultural Education Project
Loan/Credit Number            2444-CHA/ iS0M-CHA
RVP Unit                      East Asia and Pacific Region
Country                       China
Sector                        Education
Background
1.2   In the early 1980's, China was going through a [ riod of economic reforms that contribu:ed
to adjustment and stabilization as well as economic growth, As a result of these measures, combined
with systemic changes that relied more on market mechanisms and economic instrurments and less on
administrative directives to influence economic activity, the pertormance of the econonmy was
impressive during 1978-1982. Gross agr icultural and industrial output at constant prices recorded an
annual growth rate of 7.3 percent, lTogether with a low population growth rate, per capita incoines in
real terms increased rapidly, ranging trom 4.8 percent p.a. in urban areas to 12 percent in rural
areas.
1.3    Rapid and equitable economic development, however, was constrained by a number of
factors. There were serious shortages of skilled manpower (enrollment in universities and technical
and vocational schools was one quarter of the average rate for other developing countries). With
limited possibilities for expanding the cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already
quite high, it was projected that thie growth rate for agriculture was unlikely to average more than 3-4
percent p.a. during the remainder of the 1980s. Energy availability was expected to continue to
constrain industrial growth and there were capacity constraints in the transport and commercial
sectors. In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-1985)
emphasized continuation of the program of adjustment and consolidation by spreading rural refonrms to
other spheres of activity, promoting cooperative and individual commerce, particularly in rural areas,
and streamlining state-owned industries.
1.4    Agricultural Education. To supply the population's tood needs and raw materials for an
expanding industrial sector, China had to increase agricultural output. To hoost production, the
Government had since 1979 initiated new strategies to modernize agriculture and decentralize
production planning and management to the production team and farm household levels. The long-
term success of these strategies depended on the availability of well-trained professional and middle-
level manpower. The precise dimensions of manpower need was not kno)wn at the time, but based on
preliminary Government estimates, the demand for agricultural manpower exceeded the supply of'
graduates at every level. The agricultural education system, however, was not able to provide this
manpower after the years of neglect and isolation. In the 85 institutions of higher education in



- 2 -
agriculture, the staff were poorly qualified, equipment and facilities were inadequate and/or
substardard and study programs were often outdated and narcowly technical. To address these
problems, the Government decided to: (a) establish a system of key agricultural colleges capable ot
playing a leading role in agricultural modernization; (h) expand the role of agricultural colleges in
providing staff training and technical support services for the agricultural extension system; (c)
restructure the secondary school systern to inciease the number of schools offering technical education
in agriculture, and (d) expand distance learning opportunities in agricult-
1.5    Bank Group support for the Government's program of expanding and improving agricultural
education was part of a larger eftfrt to help China rneet critical requirements for high level manpower
in various science and technical fields. Strengthening higher educatior. was tne thrust ot' three
education projects under way in China in the mid-1980's. One of them was the Agricultural
EJacation and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CHA).
Project Objectives and Description
1.6    Project Objectives. The project's objective was to help the Government expand and upgrade
professional and middle level agricultural manpower by providing assistanc- to four types of
institutions: colleges, training and extension support centers, technical schools, and distance
learning/education support facilitit:s. It was designed to continue and broaden the support for
agricultural higher education provided under Cr. 1297-CHIA by extending assistance to colleges in a
wider range of agricultura!/geographical zones and placing greater emphasis on the role of the
agricultural college as a community and regional resource.  The project's priority was to strengthen
undergraduate education over postgraduate education and research. It also added a new dimension to
previous assistance by supporting institutions training agriculturai technicians.
1.7    Components. The project provided funds for civil works, furniture, equipment, technical
assistance and fellowships to the following components: (a) improvement and expansion of preservice
and in-service training at 23 key agricultural colleges; (b) establishment of eight training and
extension support centers to train staff for the agriculture extension system; (c) assistance to the
Government in defining a development strategy for secondary/postsecondary agricultural education by
introducing a pilot program to strengthen 12 agricultural technical schools; and (d) improvement of
the quality and increasing the supply if instructional materials by assisting three central distance
learning and educational support facilities.
Project Design and Organization
1.8    The project design was the product of close cool c~ration among the agricultural
colleges/schools, the Project Office in the Bureau of Education of the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF), and the World Bank. Each institution requesting assistance
prepared a development plan and the corresponding facilities and manpower required. The Project
Office, which implemented the first project, reviewed and screened the requests in line with
agreements reached with the Bank's identification and preparation missions on the main project
objectives. This involvement promoted a strong sense of ownership among the project institutions.
The arrangement for project implementation was similarly participatory, with the establishment of a
Review Committee comprising representatives of project institutions to provide technical expertise to



- 3 -
the 'roject Office. The responsibilities otf the Project Oft-ice and the project instituLlons were well
defined.
1.9    The statea emphasis ot the project ,s undergraduate and techniical education as opposed to
research, which was supported under a different project. However, since the colleges also had a
research function, the Bar,nk teared that there was a tendency to tilt the balance in favor of research.
This was evidenced by the sophistication ot equipment requested by tne institutions. At the Decision
Meeting for the project, it was decidled that a postappraisal mission be miounted to re-evaluate certain
advanced equipment to ensure that it would contributo to  achieving the education and teachiing
objectives. Another issue raised wa, the justitication for inc!uding 11 colleges assisted in pr,vious
projects. The appraisa! mission explained that dte supplemental assistance was needed to develop the
colleges into centers of excellence, thus enabling them to handle more effectively their increaising in-
country training function. The postappraisal mission contirmed the agreed project objectives, i.e.,
priority was to be given to strengthening undergraduate education followed by graduate education and
research. The Governiment conducted a thorough review of equipment items over $20,000 apiece and
-educed the number of items qlUestioned by the Bank.
1.10   Although the agricultLural sector's need for large numbers of techrnicians was recognized, the
technical schools compone.:t in the project was relatively small. This was deemed appropriate at the
time because that was the Bank's first involvement in this level of education. The project thereirore
included funds to help the Governnrent prepare a development plan for the systein of agricultural
technical schools. The project also provided futndLs tor the preparation   :"urther investment in
agricultural technical schools.
1.11   Overall, the project provided appropriate assistance to all leveis of China's agricultural
education, contributing to building a balanced and comprehensive system. In terms of meeting the
urgent demand at a time when conditions were favorable towards agricultural growth, the project's
timing was fitting. However, it was prepared shortly after the first agricultural education ptoject
became effective and therefore could not draw upoon the lessons learned from the first operation. T'he
requirement for counterpart funrds also posed a burden on the Go-ernment, with long-term
implications on sustainability. The rush in bringing the pro ject to appraisal also resulted in inadequate
preparation of some comiiponients, such as technical assistance. Driven by the high level ot' demandl.
project designers were overly a.nbitious in including the large number of project institutions,
stretching resources for supervision, operation and maintenance.
Project Implementation
1.12   Civil Works. Except for the model library and food science department, project civil works
were tinanced and carried out solely by the Government. The actual area completad was 523,000 sq.
m., about 12 percent less than the appraisal target of 598,000 sq. m. The variance between planned
and actual of several institutions, however, was enormous. This was because the targets of those
institutions were overly ambitioLs and were subse(uently revised. There were also shortages in
counterpart funds at some sites. In general, supervision missions reported adequate and timely
provision of housing for equipment when it arrived.
1.13   Equipment. Following the finalization of the equipment list during the visit ot the post-
appraisal mission in October, 1983, the Project Office mobilized staff of the project institutions to



- 4 -
prepare specitications and tender docu'nts  1he Bank assisted hy sending a procurement mission tk
rvview the technical specifications and bidding dOcuriments. Negotiations took place in May 1984 and
shortly afterwards, international c .imoetiti e hidd irig began( on five packages of eqUiprilePt   ,ed at
$46 million. Of these, ahout $30 kn !1i in were equ i )nent for the Second Agricultural E ducation
Project  The project was approved by the B0oard on JLine 14, 1984. and necanie effective on October
17, 1984, A Chinese delegation v isited Washington to dis.uss the hid evaluation arnd the Bank issued
no objection to bid awards in midi-i4o' nember. 1984, The collaboration ot the Borrower and the Bank
in this procurement exercise was exemplary.
1. 14   A second batch of equipimtent U;is proclured towards the end ot the project  D)uring a
supervision mission in May 1988. it was found that about lJS$9 million of the loan allocation for
equipment remained to he committed. s The credit had been fully disbursed. ) At the same time.
t'Liuds from the technical assistance category were unLtlerutilized, The Government requested a
reallocation otf the loan to increase the V(luipmn)nt category. The Bank and the Government agreed on
a list of equipmient to be purcthased, ,hichi iniouded spare paris, accessories to enhance the capacity ot
existing equipment and additional ek.uipmnent required as a result of new oi revised teaching and
research programs, and maintenance contracts I The underlying principi was to enhance the
operation and maintenance of alreadLy procured equipment. The miaintenance contracts proved to be
very useful as the project institutions xerc reportinrg shortages of funds tfr eNuipment maintenarnce.
.15   A supervision mission that *isiLed a sample of project institutions founJ that the utilization of'
equipment was satisfactory, althoiugLh the t'requ(Lency of use was below poLential. Universities reported
shortages ot' tecihnicianls andl t'unds to) operate the e,quipment. tiowever, it was expected that when the
staft' on overseas training  returrned, the freqluency of use could he raised dramatically. For reasons
listed below, this did not happen,
1.16   Overseis Fellowships.  I'he nuLmbher1 T of project staff sent for overseas training far exceeded
appraisal e-stimates (see Table 4). T'he increase was funded by savings from scholarships obtained by
students while overseas and a reduction in iiving allowances trom appraisal estimates. A suipervision
mission of October 1987 raised cotncern that a large proplortion of staft' sent tor MSc degrees were
remaining overseas to complete Phi) programs. As a result, they remained away tfr an average of
five years. In the mneantime increased nuribhers of students were being taught by a weakened staff
supplemented by assistants who had nrot re:tched the master's degree standard. AlthoLigh the learning
environment could be vastly imnproVd by the larger nunihers of PhD level staff, the achievement wavs
made at the expense ot five to six years of t-ess than :;atisfactory teaching quality for a large number
ot undergraduate students. T'he long pteriod overseas also weakened the tie between the students and
project institutions and increasedi the risk of their failing to return, At the end of the project, only 34
percent of students on degree stUdies h,ad retuined. On the other hand, the return rate of those sent
for short-term advanced study (up to a year) was about 75 percent.
1. 17   Two English language cciuers cstablished by a British tirmn under Cr. 1297 provided
incountry Englishi training to overseas fellowships candidates. The follow-on project provided
additional funds for language trainin, specialists. At the end of the contract in 1986, a new contract
was n.egotiated in order to smooth the shift of responsibilities to the Chinese. The foreign fi mn
maintained an advisor in each cetetr forecruoiting treign teaciers before local teachers could take
over completely. This arrangemnent wurked weil. By the end of the proJect, the transfer was



. 5-
complete and the ceriters contlnuel to  rov id,e high (ua lity trliraining. Trainiing ftr French., Ge-mlan
anrd Japanese wi1s carried oit iri ocnters establkihstied by NIA.A' with res itIires OutsidLe the pr  ed.
1. 18   1'echnical Assistoime. Frim  ;limost the start ot t'le p-rojeet, the Projezct Ottice had mnaintailieki
that the appraisal missiorn had o%vxelesti mated the techriical assistance reCqUiremlenIIts. 'hlle 30rI0i wrc also
did not appoint members to the Ifte ru!tioti)nJl .\d  isory Panel, which was to assist in the selectitnot
seminar leaders and advise on seminar arrangemlents, evaluation, and curriculurmi development.
Instead the Project Office propo.sed to reClUiL spCc,ialdists through * tlher channels, such as contacts with
fo;reign agricuituiral universities aLndl research institutions anid by contracting a technicial assistance
recruitrnent firm. However, the contract never materialized and specialists were recruited (in an ad
hoc basis rather than aecordiig to a iplan. L3y mid 19'8, only 11 percent ot' the tfunds for techlti il
assistance had been dishursed  T'e Goverrinmrit pointed out that pro ject f'unds foir technical assistancie
were not needed beCause thete wasi at the thie, t emI nd, ous interest armong overseas specialists to
work in China, often on a gratis basis. It req,.Iesteod a real location of funds to other categories, to
which the Bank agreedt. ln retrospect, thie eciinical assistance component ot' the project was poorly
designedi and the Borrower never unde, rstmood the riced for such a large program   TIhe SAR contai,ed
no) te;ms of reference for the key specialists, but Ornly broad descriptions of their functions. In the
end, 665 man months of foreign consultancies uere used compared with 737 in the SAR. However.
78 p'wrcent of the Bank/IDA-fUtnldted toreiori einsultaneies were lan-uage teathers, whicht mearit littl.
was used for improvement of college mami-enierit and other areas of technical assistance.  rhe use nt
iocail consultancies was ahout 45 ptlrent of NSA   targets.
1 9   Niodel Facilities.  hlie pt jet  as to) provide a special program of civil works, equim1tent
and technical assistance to hcljr tO c ii het s est.l Iish m 0del taci ilities thait could be duplicated in otber
parts Otf the Country. These  erc:    i mu del librairy at Beijing Ag`riuiltural University and a model
tood science department t (telnti 1 Chli na Ar cultural Colilege. Twheir implementatiion is discussed
below.
1 .20   Following a study tour of British 1ihrari's and the visit of two British consUltants 1 ('hina,
the Borrower decided there was adeIuaIte local expertise to design the library. A government
architecture institute produced a stit of! preliminary designs which were discussed with a Bank
supervision mission in Octoher lIN.. One person was also sent for master degree study in library
science and five for short-term  ov\rersoas pnrorams. However, disagreement between the MAAF and
the Beijing Ag-izultural Universivy ov- thfe desit'n led to delays. Tne proposals were not finalized
and approved by both p arties Ulltil November 1987. Competitive bidding for the construction.
introduced tor the first tifne in Beijing, he-an shortly after. Constructionr of the library started in
January 1988, about tw) yeais eh ldnd schedule. Construction progress was good and by early 1991,
the library had been completed exsept fOr thie library automation system, which wvas to tbe installed by
the end of the year. A number ot foreign institutions provided technical assistance at little cost.
After only a tew months of operation, library staff noted that the new facility was hanidling 6.000
requests a day compared wittI the old library's record ot 500.  Already, the library had received
sortie 4.000 visitors from all io\r ( 1 hina.
1.21   Initial implementation of the tot)d sience departmen  lfollowed a similar pattern to) the library.
A Chinese delegation visited severali inst itmtitn' in the U.S. which was fbilo v ed  y a visil. ult a,
American consultant to China. The lBorrowoer d(ecidud to emiploy local architects to design the
building. Again, disagreement het%%ce:n the University and the NMinistry on the (lepartnient's



- 6 -
enrollment and size ot' the building l.d to a two-year delay. Following negotiations with the
mediation ot' Bank supervision stat't, a co1 Mpromise was reached and the civil works were let on the
basis of comipetitive bidd rig. 'I'lle hLi uLilli  WaIS coinpleted at the end of 1989. The area was about
4. 100 sq. in., close to the appraisal estimate ot 4,000 sq. m. Equipment had arrived earlier and were
used in temporary locations in eXisting. bUildinlgS. It now otters nine specialized courses related to
tood science, and has an enrollmienrt of about 300 undergraduates and 25 post graduates.
I a2   1'he loan/credit disbursement rate for the model facilities civil works were raised fronm 20 to
40 percent of total cost. 1'his could be accommodated within the original aliocatioris because of' the
devaluation of the RMB since appraisal.
1 .23   Project Evaluation, Planning and Preparation Ot Future Puf)jects. The Project Office
monim )red progress in reaching- an agr leed set ol' project indicators (see Table 6). However, it did not
organize the project institutions to carry Olut annIual tracer surveys 1/ as stipulated in the cledit
agreemerit. Individual institution;s ca:ried OUt their own surveys but at a time when virtually all
graduates were providl d jobs by government agencies, the tracer study was not of much interest to
the Borrower. It is doutbtful it' the practice will be continued. Manpower studies hased on the
example ot the one done in Jiangsu in the first project were not carried out. Manpower analysis and
the updating of data did not become an institUtionalized activity. The preparation of future investment
programs in agricultural education did not take place because the State Planning Co(mmission decided
there were more urgent demands in other sectors.  NIAAF, with the assistance of local consultants,
prepared a satisfactory developmntt plan for secondary agricultural schools.
1.24   Total project cost aim untld to a,hOut $126 million, 28 percent less than the appraisal estimate
of $175 mill ior hecause of the dJdval!nJti  of the RNIB during the project period.
Projtect ResulIts
1.25   As a result ol the two Bark-tfiTainced agriculture educatiorn projects as well as other
Government and donor investments, China has established a comprehensive agricultural education
system. which would need continuous uprrading and adequate resources to sustain. Specifically, the
project achievvd its objective of improving the quality of 'project institutions as well as increasing the
supply of prof 'essionals andl technriciains needed for China's agricultural modernization program.
However, the level otf achievenmlent in some areas was less than projected in the SAR due to such
reasons as the low return rate otf overseas fellows and the recurrent cost constraint (Table 6). At the
ernd oi- the project, enrollment and outpluit targets as envisioned at appraisal were mostly reached or
exceeded. TRe only shortfall was in the postgraduate programs of the newly-assisted coileges, where
enrollment was 64 percent (ot targlet. High level agricultural manpower for research and education
would continue to he in shlort. surply  Quality imiiprovement was rmore difficult to measure but could
he seen in the increase(d iusage of equipment for teaching and the conduct of experiments, and the
nulmber of new specialties. Althoughi the number of staff receiving overseas training exceeded
appraisal estimate, their impact on staff prilile waIs less than taiget because of the large number who
I/     These are follow-up surveys  ft graduates. Data obtained from the surveyx was to be used by
thle Governmrnlt, inter alia, to rlmoilit. r t,he progress and effectiveness of its new policies
towards its goUl of de\ ci ping a corps of agricultural professionals andc technicians.



- 7 -
failed to return. Improvenmnts in college mnanag'ement were also less than target partly because of the
failure to recruit technical assistance as oudlined in the SAR and partly because of difticulties ill
changing entrenched habits, Marlonag,rient advances were made in areas such as library manigermenit,
teacher:student ratio, and space utilization, althOUgh some indicators were not up to appraisal
estimates. Greater achievemients mighit have heen possible it' more technical assistance was used tBr
college management.
Project Sustainability
1.26   Sustainability of project bhnetits can he examined in terms of: (a) the o,peration and
maintenantce of' equipi-ment and t'a.ilities; (h) the contribution of upgraded staff; and (c) institutional
and systemic changes, On the first point, shortages ot' tunds have hampered the operation and
maintenance of equipment during the lit'e of the project. Spare parts and service contracts procured
towards the end of the project have guaranteed a period of proper maintenance, but problems may
arise after the contracts end. Some o.f these would be taken care of by the O&M  units in the project
institutions but the lack of operating funds is likely to continue to. hamprer the Optimal usage ot'
equipment. In view of the rapid expansion in educational programs, the Government has not been
able to keep up with the recurrent cost requiremilents. The agricultural universities have devised
innovative ways to narrow the shoi-tfall. such as offering research and developmental services to the
public on a cost recovery basis.
1.27   Staff returned trom overse as stLidies would continue to) play an important role. Mlost of' the
candidates who went for short-term  advanced study had returned with upgraided skills and connections
with foreign institution. 'I'This woumld hive lorn-Lerm benefits to Chinese agriculturcal colleges. The
influence of the MSc and PhilD  amindidwtes, however. is less than expected since abouit two thirds did
not return.
1.28   Several aspects of the proj eet aLe likely to) have long-lasting impact: (a) the model facilities of
the library and food science delpatrtimnl,rt; (h) the language training programs tor overseas fellowship
candidates; (c) the development plan ftor secondary agricultural schlools; and (d) improvements in
college mnanagement, especially in library management, space utilization and the qualifications of
administrators, The analysis of manpo"wer requirements and tracer surveys, however, were not
institutionalized.
Bank Performance
1.29   The Bank played an effec'tual part in detfining the objectives o" a diverse project. However,
while the intervention was appropriate and timely, the Bank did not pay adequate attention to the
recurrent cost implications. Althiough the SAR projected the project's incremental recurrent costs to
be minimal, the Bank should have examined the issue in the context of the country's education
program. At appialsal, there were three otther Bank-financed higher education proiects under
implementation and two more were in the pipeline. Altogether, they aggregated to neArly $700
million of lending for higher educati(.n in less .han a decade. The Government has had difficulties in
providing the recurrent funds to match these investments. Another shortcoming in the Bank's
performance was the design ot' the technical assistance component (see para. 7). While the appraisal
mission was justified in maintaining that technical assistance was a vital part of the project, the
program it recommended was not hased on the specific needs oif project institutions but more as a



-8-
proportion of total investment. The Borrower was not convinced ot the necessit.y to use project funds
for a large technical assistanee program, an attitude that was reflected throughout implementation.
1.30   Bank supe.vision of the project was good, with satisfactory staff continuity. Its active
involvement in the procurement process contributed to successful implementation. The role of Bank
staff in supervising the implementation of the modc facilities was commendable. Aside frorn
conveying comments that improved the efficiency and cost-et'fectiveness of the designs, they also
helped to mediate compromises bezween the Lfniversiti ; and Ministry.
Borrower Performance
1.31   The performance of the Project Office and project institutions was excellent, particularly with
regards to equipment procurement. However, the Borrower was unable to contain the numner of
project institutions to a more manageable size. The Project Office was overloaded and could not
afford to do much field supervision. Some components, lparticularly the extension support centers and
technical schools received insufficient attention. Technical assistance wacs less well planned mainly
because project institutions did not understand the need for it. MAAF's policy towards overseas
training resulted iri a larger number of PhD candidates but also significantly reduced their return rate.
The Borrower fulfilled its commitment in providing counterpart funds for civ.l works, although there
were shortages at some sites, The allocation of re&lrrent costs was a problem.
Project Relationship
1.32   The relationship between the Bank and Borrower was good. There was close cooperation and
flexibility on both sides to allow necessary changes to project design. Some of the supervision
missions provided considerable technical assistance and the Borrower was generally able to follow
through with their reconmmendations.
Consulting Services
1.33   In general specialists' performiance was satisfactory. The contribLution of foreign specialists in
setting up the model library and tood science departmnent was valuable and provided at low cost.
Lessons Learned
1.34   The main lessons learned are:
(a)    A Borrower's commitment is essential to project success. In this project, most
aspects were satisfactorily implemented. One exception was technical assistance
Lecause the Borrower had other sources and did not see a need for using project funds
for this purpose. While the appraisal mission maintained that technical assistance was
a vital part ot' the project, it did not provide enough details to convince the Borrower.
The terms of refterence tor at least the key specialists should have been included in the
SAR;
(b)    The project was prepared shortly atter the first agricultural education project became
efftective and therefore couild not draw upon the lessons learned from the first



- 9 -
operation. There should be sufficient time lapse hctween related nrojects it
improvements in design and implementation are to be made;
(c)    To maximize the effectiveness ot overseas tellows, it would have been advisable to
require MSc graduates to return to the country tOr a few years of teaching betfore
selectively sending some back for doctoral training. This could have eliminated the
absence of essential teachinig staff for a long period, and improved the utilization of
project equipment;
(d)    Early action in equipnient procurement is essential. In this case, most of the work
was done before the project became effective; and
(e)    The issue of recurrent cost should be looked at in a wider context, as a function of the
Bank's sector work and assistanct strategy. Although the needs of China's higher
education are great, its capacity to operate and maintain its investments should be a
main concern;



- 10 -
PART II: PROJEC'I' REVIEW  FRONM BORROW'ER'S PERSPECTIV'E
2.1    The following summarizes th.' Borrower's evaluation of the project. For the purpose (t'
c'arity, the Bank did minor editino on the ori-inal text.
Experiences and Lessons
2.2    The Agricultural EUdcatiun1l anzld kcsearch Project Office ot' the People's Republic of China
f'unded by the World t3ank had         shed thlrec projects in the past ten years since 1982. 'I'he
experience and lessons ot this projeci are based ofn the First project, and are summarized briefly as
follows:
Concerning the Feasibility Study
2.3    The implementation of the Second Agricultural Education Project has made us realize that
only by thoroughly carrying out the feasihility study could the practical project plan be drawn to he
the foundation for the success of the prolject" T'he Second Agricultural Education Project has paid
serious attention to the feasibility  tltudy. 'he responsible persons of the Project units had gathered the
talents fromil their respective units or even departments to form integrated work teams ot' experts to
compare plans with the actual Situtlion atnd the development of the schools so as to tr)rm the
feasibility study reports of various projject units and submit the project plan to higher authorities tor
approval.
2.4    In order to make the Prloject conf'orrn with the requiremiients of the World Bank and easy to
imnp)lement, the Project Ot'tice (I'()) had taken into consideration the "building conditions, the technical
tforces and the assurance of coun'elriprt fulndls` as the criteria to carry out "internal appraisals" of the
feasihility study reports of' the Piojelt units. Now, it has been proved that most ot' the plans from the
Project units are relatively  roprkite  Btut the preparatory work of some of the project units of the
Second Education Project ws carried OUt iti a bit Of hurry so that the feasibility study was not so
tinely carried out. As a result, s1mething vsron- hiad occurred during implementation, thus affecting
the schedule of' implementation. I..,speci .-ly tOn Lhose units that are located faraway from the big or
medium cities, the difficulties for thie construction in these units had not been fully considered. The
above-mentioned prohlems had( hrought ditticulties in the work of implementation and also enriched
our experience.
The Work of the Implement.ation of' the Project
2.5    The Appraisal Repoirt and the Project plan were necessary for the correct and efficient
in.plemnentation of the Second E.dliuLtion Project according to the agreement. During the peak of
project implementation, there wcNre d tl   projects under way at the same time. The general Project
Office and the POs otf various uitsils hadl mainitained enough staff and technical forces who worked
efficiently and diligently to guarantee the smooth implementation of the project. After the peak, the
reduction of staff in the POs had heeLn a little too fast, so that there was not enough staff to carry out
inspection and supervision in the Project units. The timing of the effectiveness of the First and the
Second projects was too close. The Second project did not wait until the feedback of the experience
of the First project. Therefore, people had followed the experience of the First project and the
mistakes as well, such as: refusing to carry out the second tendering and so making the share of direct



it -
purchase too large and affecting the prompt approval of the World Bank, thus delaying the
implementation of the project.
2.6    The selection of the appropriate staff members is an important problenm encounteredl by the
PO and the various offices of the project units. If an inappropriate person is selected, it will bring
losses to the work. The greater the responsihility the person has, the greater the losses he will bring.
T'he project cycle is at least five years. It is impossible to keep the staff members unchanged
throuLghout the project period. It is important to ensure that the change in staff did not affect the
work. The only way out is to carry OUt traiinirng of s:a,ff members at their posts and to implement
strict computer management. Now, we have the expvcience and capability to carry out training
programs for staff members to implement the credit loan project.
The Cooperation with the W)orld Bank
2.7    The excellent cooperation between the PC and World Bank officials has guaranteed the
smooth preparation and implementation of the project. Experienced World Bank officials had given
us manty proper requirements and sincere suggestions during the preparatory and implementation
stages. But some of the requirements and suggestions which could hardly be understood at that time
had not been implemented properly. The timely control of the overall requirements during project
implemnentation by the PO was due to the timely reminders given by them, such as: the inclusiOn of
the development of teaching mater ials, the use of limited tendering, and pointing out some problems
about extension and the vocational schools. The adjustment and the extension of the project were all
sincerely supported by World Bank officials.
2.8    The contribution of World Bank o*fficials was reflected in their Appraisal Report and the
various supervision memoranda. They travelled thousands of miles to come to help us solve
difficulties that occurred during the preparation and implementation of the project, working whole-
heartedly to safeguard World Bank standards and also consider the interest of the Borrower. It is
worthy of our learning. We should follow the doctrine of trying our best to cooperate with the World
Bank in later projects.
l'he Procurement of Equipment of the Project
2.9    The expenses for equipment accoutlred for over 70% of the total credit loan. It is important
to purchase advanced equipment and instruments to enforce the modernization of China's
construction. So, the successful fulfillment of the procurement of equipment with fine quality and
enough quantity is one of the key factors for the success of the project. 'The inferior equipment
procured during the second project accounted for only 2.5%. After claiming for damages, this
percentage could be further redLuced. So, the procurement of equipment was successful. By carrying
out two times of procurement through ICB, limited tendering and direct purchases, we have obtained
the experience: (1) of requiring the project units to make sure ot' "the site for equipment installation,
the operators, the orientation of' utilization and the counterpart funrds"' (2) of how to draw up a
bidding document, how to carry oUt the international competitive bidding and direct purchases; (3)
and of closely following the processes of project preparation and appr isal, to carry out the
procurement preparatory work so that it could reach the contract-signing stage when the project
agreement came into effect.



- 12 -
2.10   The probl mn was that there were no feedback from the former two procuremenit experiences,
so the same thing happened just like the first project: we did not prepare for the second tendering,
thus delaying the progress of the project. There also existed a problem in the selection of the type of
medium- and small-size computers and 16 byte microcomputers. The time for claiming damages was
too long. Lessons should be learned from this experience. For example: for procurement of
computers, a team should be organized to include experts to carry out the work of appraisal,
examination and selection of tvpes. For the important equipment, the experts among thie end users
should be present at the time of signing the contract and the payment should he made after the
commissioning of the installed ecluipment, or in two installments.
2.11   Besides, we suggest that a special fund be set Lp for foreign equipmeLt maintenance in the
future third project so as to cope with the problem of maintenance of Lhose important equipment of
the first, second and third projects.
The Personnel Training
2.12   T'he over-fulfillment of the training programs shows that we have paid more attention to
developing talents. The modernization of our country should be based on the modernization of the
people's knowledge and capability in order to reach the international advanced level. We are going to
send out a lot of post-graduate students to study abroad in the future. Most of the post-graduates sent
out by the project had delayed their return from abroad. It was too late for us to realize this
problem. Later, some changes were made such as: sending out less post-graduate candidates and
more visiting scholars; and strengthening overall supervision of the trainees to be sent out.
Consulting Services
2.13   After the implementation of three projects, we have obtained many experiences concerning the
selection and utilization of experts. Our foreign language ability has been upgraded and also we are
well informed in this respect so that we can recruit without difficulty appropriate experts witl better
beneficial returns. It is still necessary to invite some experts from abroad in order to absorb foreign
advanced experiences to supplement our weaknesses. During the development of the vocational
schools, we have obtained the experiences of experts who lectured in those vocational schools, such
as the Suzhou Agricultural Vocational School. If we are to carry out the vocational school projects
next time, we can make use of experts in a small number of vocational schools so as to upgrade the
teachers' academic quality of the agricultural vocational schools throughout the country.
2.14   The problem existing at present is that t:here is a wide gap between the expenses for foreign
and domestic experts. We consider that the expenditure for expert services estimated by the World
Bank is based on worldwide standards and is, therefore, rational, But the expenditure for foreign
expert services is 100 times higher than that in our country. For this problem, we have to take
appropriate measures to solve it. It should not be simply concluded that it is all du.e to our
unwillingness to make use of the foreign experts.
Civil Works
2.15 As in other developing countries, the tight situation of funds remairLs a long-term
phenomenon. In this project, most of the counterpart funds are allocated to civil works. There are



- 13 -
two problems existing in this project: o(ne is a certain degree of blindness existing in the formulation
of the civil works plan in a small number of proiect units, thus affecting the fulfillment of the tasks of
the whole project; and the other is that the amount ot civil works stated in the reports ot some project
units were not reportend according to the actual amount but according to a formula just to guarantee
the ratio of 1:2 of the credit. As a result, they had reported the amount of civil work of only 20,000
sq.m. instead of the actual arount otf 0,000 sq.m. In future, when comprehensive computer
management is realized, the  :mangenment of the civil works will also be standardized. It will not only
take care of the quality ot the civil works hut also carry out the management of planning and progress
of work in a standardized way.
Unity and Cooperation
2.16   The unity and cooperation aimong the Ministry of Agriculture, the Mlinistry of Forestry, the
Ministry of Water Conservancy and the State Meteorology Administration is a necessary condition for
the success of the project. Owing to the fact that the agricultural science and educational project was
directly under the leadership of the State Agriculture Commission which was abolished and divided
into three ministries and one administrative bureau, the PO is not affiliated to a single ministerial
organization. The coordination aniong the ministries and the Project Leading Group is actually a
loose union of the four ministerial organizations. The smooth. and successful implementation of the
project all depends on the coopera.tion of the leading members of the four ministerial organizations
and the staff members. On thie one hand, the PO under the MOA should treat all project units under
the MOA, MF, MWC and SNIA, or the project units under the Education Project or the Research
Project equally like "balancing a hovl of water in handi". On the other hand, the project units u.ider
the MF, WC and SMA shouldi treat the PO with the attitude of support and mutual understanding. It
is irnpossible to make no mistakes during the imiplementation of the project. What then if it happens?
The PO should treat the matter with sell-criticism and overcome the mistakes. The project units
should help the PO to overcome the mistakes with mutual understanding. All should be closely united
for better or worse so as to ensure the smnooth implementation and the final success of the project.
The Support from the International Organizations
2.17   The support rendered by international institutions, organizations and companies are of great
importance fotr the success (t' the project, such as: the help given by IDEALS in arranging the
visiting study tours in the United States and recruiting experts; the help given by the JPA Co. for the
disbursement of expenses ot studlents studying in the United States; the help given by the British Bell
Education Trust in establishing two toreign language training centers and, later, recruiting senior
teachers for the two centers; and the help given by the factories and merchants from the United
States, England, France, Germany, Japan, Canada, Australia, Italy and Hong Kong in supplying
equipment for the Project and in training machine-operating personnel. As mentioned above, it is
evident that for such an international economic activity of establishing China's Second Agricultural
Education Project, it could hardk he acuomiplished smoothly wiLhout the help from those international
organizations.
Trhe Orientation of the l'rofjrt
2.18   The accomplishment of the three projects by utilizing two credit loans within ten years proves
that we are basically able to unde,rtake the implementation of World Bank loan projects. We have
obtained the experiences and lessons of the CHA-1297 and CHA-1516 projects and this project. But



- 14 -
we are still lagging far behind compared with those POs with better pertormances. In the future, we
will accomplish the following goals: (1) carrying out an overall training program fOr the project
personnel beforehand; (2) realizing comprehensive starndardized management of project; and (3)
bringing our work to a higher level, avoiding risks, increasing benefitial returns and bringing the
project units into full plav.
Concluding Remarks
2.19   After seven years of implementation, the Second Agricultural Education Project had been
completed. We have reached the following conclusions: considering the tight situation of t'unds
encountered at that tirme in China, the civil works of the project had been well completed; the
procLuremenit of equipment and instruments and the construction of laboratories had been accomplished
according to plan, making it possible to play an important role in education and research work; the
training of personnel at home and abroad had been over-fulfilled as compared with the planned target,
thus upgrading the quality of the faculty members, easing the problem of insufficient teachers and
promoting the development of teaching materials; and the expert services and recruitment of foreign
experts had been fulfilled in terms of the planned number of persons, but not in terms of the planned
number of man-months. As compared with the first project, we have done our best in this project,
2.20   Through the aid of the project, the newly-included colleges and universities had been
developed rapidly; the follow-up colleges and universities had been further developed with better
beneficial returns; the extension colleges and vocational middle schools had not only accomplisthed the
development task but also created a new experience; the long-distance education and teaching
auxil?ary units had accomplished an efficient result with not much investment.
2.21   According to the indicators of the project, there were 34 indicators in zll, among which, 23
indicators had been over-fulfilled, 5 indicators being nearly fulfilled, 5 indicators not fulfilled, and no
data for one indicator. The over-fulfilled and nearly fulfilled items accounted for 82.35% of the
whole project, which should be considered a well-done job. For those indicators not fulfilled, it was
not due to the colleges and universities themselves but because of the influence of the nation's
economic situation or the temporary limitation of the system. As to the number of college students
and post-graduates, the indicator required the attainment of 32,000 students in 1989, but actually, the
number had reached 32,016 in 1987-88 and 33,337 in 1988-89; and the number of post-graduates had
reached 3,074 in 1986-87, already exceeding the set indicator, but later the number dropped because
of insufficient funds. The indicator for teacher/student ratio had only reached 1:4.8 instead of the set
norm of 1:5-6 due to a systemic problem. Now, a system of appointment of extension professors has
been carried out in the colleges and universities; and enterprises have been developed to divert the
technical personnel. We consider that the ratio will be reached and exceeded very soon.
2.22   In ail, the project implementation has been successful and satisfactory from every point of
view. The PO will continue to submit applications for new agricultural education projects to the
government of China and sincerely hope that the World Bank will continue to support us.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans a.ad/or Creditk,
Loan/Credit l'itle                     Purpose                  | Year of        Status
______________________   ___________________________________ _ .I A p p ro v al
Agricultural Education    Support the Government's program of           1982     Closed on
and Research Project     strengthening higher education and researclh            3/31/1989.
Cr.1297-CHA              in the agricultural sciences by providing
(US$ 75.4 M)             assistance to 11 leading agricultural
colleges, 6 existing research institutions,
and a new National Rice Research Institute.
University               Assist the Borrower to strengthen higher       1981     Closed on
Development Project I   education and research in the fields of                  6/30/1986.
Ln.2021 /Cr. 11 67-CHA    science and engineering.
(US$ 200 M)
University               Promote policy and institutional changes       1985     Closed on
Development              related to the engineering and                          12/31/1992.
Project II               economics/finance education subsector.
Cr. 1551-CHA
(US$ 145 M)                                                                                   l
Polytechnic & TV         Assist the Government to increase the          1983     Closed on
University Project       output and improve the quality of skilled               6/30/1992.
Cr. 1411-CHA             technical manpower by support for two
(US$ 85 M)               cost-et'fective systems of postsecondary
education, the polytechnics and the
Television University system.
Provincial Universities   Assist provincial universities and the State  1986     Closed on
Project                  Education Commission to expand                          12/3111992.
Cr. 167 1-CHA            enrollment as well as improve the quality
(US$ 120 M)              and management of higher education
programs.                                                           l
Vocational & Technical  Expand and upgrade the secondary                1990     Ongoing.
Education Project        vocational and technical education (VTE)
Cr.21 14-CHA             system and the technical teacher training
(US$ 50 M)               system that provides teachers to secondary
VTE schools.



- 16
Education Development  Improve literacy, school attendance ratios       1992     Ongoing.
in Poor Provinces        and school efficiency; support ongoing
Cr.2339-CHA              efforts to carry out institutional reforms;
(UIS$130 M)              and improve overall planning and
rnanagement of educational services.



- 17 -
Tahle 2. Projet Time Table
Item              Date Planned           Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification               1/1983                                        1/1983
Prparation                                                                6 1983
Appraisal                    7/1983                                       7/1983
Negotiation                                                               5/1984
Board Approval                                                           6/14/1984
Signature                                                                7/9/1984
Effectiveness                                                            10/17/1984
Closing                     6/30/1991             12/31/1991             6/30/1992
6/01/ 1992
C mpletion                   12/1989       1      6/30/1992              6/30/1992



- 18 -
Table 3. Disbursemnent (US$ million)
Year            Appraisal Estimate           Actual             Actuail as % ot
Annual Cumulative    Annual Cumulative               Total
1985             0.7      0.7            1.5    1.5                   2
1986             6.3      7.0           10.5    12.0                  17
1987             10.0    17.0           12.4    24.4                  35
1988            24.0    41.0            0.8    25.2                   36
1989            21.0    62. U           32.0    57.2                  8 1
1990             6.8    68.8            6 2    63.4                   90
l  991                 n a.             2.1    65.5                   93
1992                   na,              3.3    68.8                   9s
1993                   n.a.              1.7    70.5 1/              100
1/    From 1985 to 1988, disbursements were onlv from the IDA credit. Subsequently,
disbursements were drawn from the Bank loan.



- 19 -
Table 4. Project Implementation
Indicators                     Appraisal Estimate      Actual Completion   1
1. Civil Works Cormnpeted
(a) Construction t:hq m)                           597,570                 523,056
(b) Renovation (.;q m)                              16,489                 32,601
2. Equipment provided by the project
(a) Imported items (US$ million)                    51.2                     51.6
(b) Locally purchased items (RMB million)                                   38.5
3. Techni.al Assistaice
(a) .Specialists services (man-month)
L o:al specialist,                               1534                     690
Foreigni specialists                              737                   665 2/
(b) Overseas fellowships (no.)
PhD                                                19                     56
Masters                                           12 5                    261
Advance  study & short term training              473          |          459
(c) Students rmturned (no.) 1/
PhD                                                                        13
lasters                                                                  36
Advanced study & short term training                                      340
1/     There were no estimates at appraisal.
2/     Of which 516 man months were f .r language training, compared with an SAR estimate of 160
man months for language training.



- 20 -
I'ahle 4
Appendix I
CII'IL WORKS
Project Institutions                Appraisal Estimnate    |      Actual Cormpletion
Area        Investment         Area       Investment
(sq. n.)     (Y million)       (sq, in.)   (Y million)
Newly Assisted Colleges         274,800           31.4         182,744          59.2      l
Previously Assistesd Colleges   121,617           22.9         143,162          58.6
Model Facilities                 17,500           8.9           17,500          8.9
Training & Extension Support
Centers                          23,730           3.8           41,900          11.7
Agricultural Technical
Schools                         154,220           12.4         131,684          33.9
Distance Learning and
Educational Support Facilities   5,703            4 2           6,066           3.5
Total                           597,570           83.6         523,056         175.8



Table 4
Appendix 2
P'gt  I o. 2
FQt!IPMN1FNNT COSTS
Institute                                Imported Item       lc al'l, fPurchased ltem
___________________ ~ ~ ~ ~ l_ _         .'__(.SS)  _ __ _   _( R   1i3)  _
1, Newly Asst. Colleges
Beijilg Agri. Eng, Universty                       3,096,964,45             4,228,514.25
Dalian Aquatic College                             1,721,758.88               380,583.30
Shihezi Agricultural College                       1,177,450.00               500,000.00
Nanjing Forestry Universit)                        2,498,700.00              2,718,279.97
Northeast Forestry University                      2,918,200.61              3,555,362.93
Wuhan Hydropwer College                            2,843,761 .76             3,048,509.30
Chengdu Meteorological College                     1,710,930.81              1,533,262.54
Guangxi Agricultural College                       1,668,900.00               955,978.72
Inner Mongolia Agri.& Animal                       1,539,837.22              2,917,809.67
Northeast Agricultural College                     2,484,(XX).00              798,462.00
Shandong Agricultural University                   1,946,411.82              2,552,855.22
Zhejiang Agricultural Universitx                   2,400,295.35              1,475,840.00
Subtotal                          2?.' 13 90               24,665,457,90
2. Previousiv Asst. Colleges
Beijing Agricultural Universit)y                   1.060,908.69               629,053.00
Central China Agri. University                     1,191,sl0.no                 29,728.09
Nanjing Agricultural University                    1,083,640.00               250.000.0)
Northwest Agri. University                           750,239.24               810,960.03
Shanghai Aquatic University'                       1.188,987.61               229,958.25
Shenyang Agri. University                          1,083,435.29                 21,790.36
South China Agri. University                       1,177,700.r)               783,734,00
Southwest Agri. University                         1.018,365.00                122,480.00
Beijing Forestry University                        1,058,631.00              1,462,323.06
East China Water Conservancy College               1,102,005.95              1,017,642.53
Nanjing Meteorology College                          863,310.50               943.844,45
Subtotal                          11.579.03:3.28            fi3() 3.77
3. Model Facilities
Language Training                                    315,000.00                      0.0C
Library of Beiiing Agri. University                i,600,000.00                      0.00
Central China Food Sciences                        1,088,0(00.00                     0.00
Subtotal                           3,003001.0()                      0.00



l able 4
Appendix 8
iPage 2 ot 2
Institute                              Imported Item      Locall'  Purchased Item
_____ _  ______(USS)  (RMB)
4. Training & Extension
Anhui Agri. College                               680,117T06              368,000.00
Henan Agri. College                               767,032.0(             1,872,000.()
Hunan Agri. College                               764,000.00             1,668,000.00
Jiangsu Agri. College                             777,745.58               866,966.92
Jiangxi Agri. University                          769,240.86               206,920.(1
Jilin Agri. University                            727,253.09                55,030.95
Subtotal                         44j5 38.68               5,(j36 917. 87
5. Technical Schools
Beijing Agri. Vocational School                   300,409.91                72,000.00
Changsha Agri. Vocational School                  355,431.31               185,906.77
Suzhou Agri. Vocaiional School                    397,000.0O                82,492(X)
Wenjiang Agri. Vocational School                  310,0(W. 00             204,900.00
Changji Agri. Vocational School                   326,681.05               158,569.36
Hongxinglong Agri. Tech. School                   344,689.0()             244,024.()
Heilongjiang Veterinary School                    355,000.00              310,331 0£
Sh2ndong Aquatic Vocational School                346,800.00               206,000.x'
Guangxi Agri. Mach. Voca, School                  389,174.25                54,914.0U
Nanjinig Forestry Vocational School               364,185.57               860,430.00
Yellow River Water Conser.Voza.School             379,357.77                86,829.00
Lanzhou Meteorology Vocational School             304,187.98                40.000.0()
Subtotal                         4.172,916 84              506 3962I
6. Distance Education                             2,401,000.00                    0.()(
Subtotal                         20401.000.                      ().O
Tota'                          51,648,552.70           38,510,285.81



1,bk 4
FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS
No ol I rainrus Scit (h cr-uas             No ol Trrticc. Rctt nrc
Institute                   Ph)D   MNaster,    Aki St,,                P iI )   Nl1a crN    Ai lsrln 
1 Newly Asst. Colleges
Beijing Agri Eng, University                     8          20             i
Dalian Aquatic College                                       I                                          4 
Shihezi Agricultural College                     2           13            1                                           *
Nanjing Forestry University                      1           14            57              1
Northeast Forestry University                    4           "2
Wuhan Hydropwer College                          I            4
Chengdu Meteorological College                   3            8            It
Guangxi Agricultural College                     2           12            3,              II
Inrier Mongolia Agri & Arimal                                23                            I
Northeast Agricultural College                   6           IS            I               4
Shandong Agricultural Unive-sihv                 8           I4            14              2
Zhejiang Agricultural University                 4           I'            2' 
Subtotal                        40          184           3)1              il         I2"
2 Previously AAst. Colleges
Beijing Agricultural Universith                                             I
Central China Agri, University                   I                         -                                           i
Nanjing Agricultural Unicrsity                  I                                                                     s
Northwest Agri University                                     6             hi
Shanghai Aquatic University                                  5              3
Shenyang Agri Universit)                         3            2             7
South China Agri, University                    4             1             3
Southwest Agri. University                       I            5             3
Beijing Forestry University                                   2
East China Water Conservancy College                         -1
Nanjing Meteorology College                      I            3
Subrotal                         2           33            o              , 
3 Model Facilities
Language Training                                            I              1 
Library of Beijing, Apri University                           4             4
Central China Food Sciences                                   3             8
Subtotal                                     26             1 3



liable 4
Appendix 3
No.ot iTIrtinieces Sic  t  ) erNas                I 01rsirMCC  RcturrinC!
Iristiriire                 lPhD       Maeters      Ads .Stutd           PhID       NiHsters    Ads Stiuds
4. Training & Extension
Anhtui Agri. Coilege                              2                           l              1      1
Henian Agri. College                              I             3
Hunan Agri. College                                                            3
Jiangsu Agri. Collcge                                                          5                                           3
Jiangxi Agri. University                           I            .
Jiliin Agri. Univcrsity                                         4             1                                           I
Subtotal                          4           _7             44                1                         29
S Technical Schools
Beijing Agri. Vocational School
Chanigshtt Agri. Vocational School
Suz.hou Agri Vocational School
Wenijiang Agri Vocational School
Chiangji Agri. Vocationial School                                                                                          l
Horigxinglonig Agri. Tech S.t)h!
Heilongijian g Vecrinary Scho-.l
Sharndong Aquatic Vocational School
Gua.ngxj Agri. Mach. V\oce School
Narmning Forestrv Vocatiorinl Schovl
Yellow Rivrr Water Conscr Vo,s .Scho,)
Lam'.hotj Meteorology Vocational Schsx !                                       4                                           3
Subtotal                                        I                                                         4
Tota                            56       261 a/            459              13           36            340
a/ Of which 132 continucid on to pursinc PhD progrmms  These ii imhers are nMt indicated in thc PhD columin



- 25 -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financinga
A. Project Cost.s (LiS$ mlillion)
Item                        Appraisal Estimate                    Actuali
Local   Foreign   To,,al        I  a l  Fore-ign  lTotal
A. Agricultulral Colleges
12 Newly Asst. Colleges               39.4    27,9       67.3          29.5    37.0 a'   0C. 5
11 Previously Asst. Colleges          22.9    12.4       35.3          11.9    14,0 h/   25.9
Food Science Dept.                     0.9      1.2       2.1           0.8      1.4       2 2
Library                                2.8     2.4        5.2            0       2.5       4.5
Tech.Asst.                             2.6      .'2      11.8          0.2       1.7       1.9
Subtotal                   68.7       Q0     12'1.7         44,4 1 th         101.0
B. Training & Extension Support
8 Centers                              3.0     4.0        7.0           3,.)    5,5       9.4
Tech. Asst.                            0.2      1.0       1.2            0       0.3      0.3
Subtotal                    3.2      5.0       82            3        5.8      97 
C. Agr.Sec. Specialized Schools
12 Schlools                           4.6      4.0        8,7          4.5      4.8       9.3
T'ech. Asst.                           0.3     0.8        1.1            0       0.5      0.5
Subtotal                    4.9      4,9       9.8           4 R5     5.3      9.8
D. Distance Leai-ning &
Supportitng Facilities           1.2      2.1       3.3           2,5      2.4      4.9
E. Evaluation, Planning &
Preparation of Future Pro jects        0.3      1.0       1.3           0.3      A4       0i7
Base Cost                   78.2    65.9      144.2                   7._5   12J.
Physical Contingencies              3.9    3.3         7.2            .
Price Contingencies              12.9    10.7       23.6           ..      .
Total Proiect Costs              95.0    79.9      175.0          55.6    70.5    126.1
a/      Including US$ I million for teaching materials.
b/     Including US$ 0.8 million f(or Foreign Language Training Centers.



- 26 -
B. Project financing (U$ million)
Sources                         Appraisal Estimate                Actual
(I) Equipment                                           30.6                         34.9
(2) Civil Works                                          0.5                          4.3
(3) Specialist Serv'ices                                 3.7                           1.4
(4) Overseas fellowships                                 6.2                          4.3
(5) Books & Instruction Materials                         1.0                         0.3
l() lee                                                  0.1                          0.1
(7) Unallocated                                          3.2                           0
Tota:                                 45.3                        45.3
ID A
(I) Equipment                                            16.0                        17.8
(2) Civil Works                                          0.5                           0
(3) Specialist Services                                   1.8                         1.6
(4) Overseas Fellowships                                 3.2                          5.2
(5) Books & Instruction Materials                        0.4                           0
(0) Initial Deposii in Special AccolTnt                   1.6                         0.6
Total                                 235                         25.
I ( iOVcrnmeo1'11 t                                        106.2
T)tal                                l75.Q                        126.1



- 27 -
Table 6. Project Results
Indicators                          Statuis in |  Appraisal        Actual
1983         lstimate
Enrollment ait
New coulleg,oe
UndergradUates (increased)                           19.500         32, 000        31.849
Graduates (increased)                                 500            2, 300         1,477
Extension centers                                       4,800           9.000         63.582
Agricultural technical schools                          5,000           9.000         9,422
Agricultural broadcasting school                       400,000        600,000       1,300,000
Improve ratio of undergraduate:graduate students        40  1           14  1        21.6  1
Increase annual intake ot new colle-es                  5,500           8,000         9,129
OutpLut fro(m
New colleges
UndergradLuates                                      5,000           7,500         8,976
Graduates                                             200             800           523
Extension center s                                      2,000           7,000         63, 582
Agricultural technical schools                          1 500           2, 500        2,434
Agricultural Broadcasting  )cho)l                          -           150,000       150,000
Agricultural Film Studio (hnours of' fliin/video
p ro duction)                         13             96             99
Iniprovinu, Sex RaLtio Enrollimont 5% females
UndeirgradUates                                           17             25             28
Graduates                                                 6               12            18
College Academic Staff Development
Reducing % ot' staft' with less than 4 years of
higher education                                   8               2             6
Increasing % of academic staff with 5 or more             24             45           n.a. a/
years of higher education                        24  1           10  1         1.4 : 1
1 nprove ratio of lecturers:associate professors
Increasing % of academic staff who would:                                23            26.7
he trainetd locally at other institution                           10           12.13
he trained overseas                                               20           41 18
participate in seminar
a!     Survey ot' 12 colleges shows teachers with 6 years of higher education increased from 8
percent to 26 percent during the project period.



- 28 -
Indicators                          Status       Appraisal      Actual
in 1983       Estimate
College Curriculum & Pedagogical Improverent
Increasing % ot experiments performed out of
total required by curriculum                    60             90          93.5
Increasing % of teachers using audiovisuial
equip.                                           5             70          36.4
Increasing subject matter areas for whicii audio-
visual teaching mater. are avail.(no.)        few (5)          30            -
Add new specialties at graduate level (no.)                           31           91
Add new specialties at undergraduiate level (no.)       -             20           87
College Management Improvement
Opening hours for libraries/week                       48             80          73.8
Broadening acce.ss to library materials          No open stacks     many         many
Improving teacher:student ratio                      I  3.2          1  6        1: 4.8
Increasing number of trained
Technicians                                                      300      exceeded a!
Administrators                                                   100      exceeded a/
Improve space standards and utilization by:
Reducing area of academic facilities pei
student(sq m)              30-35          18-20         Not
achieved
Increasing number of class periods/day             4              8           6.2
Increasing utilization of classroom/space(%)      40             70          76.5
Source: Project Office, MAAF
a/     Project Office did not provide exact numbers.



- 29 -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Covenants                                       Status
Credit Agreement
2.02(b)
Open and maintain in dollars a special account   Compliance.
in the Bank of China.
3 .01 (b)(i)
Establish and maintain a project office.      Compliance.
3.01(b)(ii)
Establish and maintain a Review Committee to    Review Committee established but not
be assisted by an International Advisory Panel    International Advisory Panel.
which is to be Appointed by 12/31/1984.
4.01(c)
Submit annual audit report.                   Compliance. Annual Audit Reports from 1984
to 1991 were received.
4.03(a)
Monitor and evaluate progress against project    Compliance.
indicators.
4.03(b)
Tracer survey of graduates from 1984-1992.    Partial compliance.



Tahle 8. Use t'f Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
r ~~~~~_              _ __ _   -           -  i .-       --_ _ _     _ __ _ _ _  
Item         1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1988       1989       1990      1991       1992       1993      Total
Preappraisal      14.6                                                                                                           14.6
Appraisal          2.3      60.3                                                                                                 62.6
Negotiation                 9.8                                                                                                   9.8
Supervision                          11.5      8 1      3.6       7.1        9.5       9.9        3.4        4.5       0.6       58.2
PCR                                                                          1.4                                                  1.4
Other              0.6      10.8     0.8       0.4                                                                                : _  _2.6
Total         17.6     80.9     12.2      8.5      3.6       7.1        10.9       9.9       3.4        4.5        0.6      159.3



- 31 -
B. NiSsiotIs
Stage of      Month!    No, of    Days         Specialization     pertfrmance   Tvpos ot
Project Cycle    Year      Persons      in       Represented a/        Rating    |Prohicnis
Field                          Status h/
Identification   1/1983        3         5      AEJu, Eco
Appraisal        7/1983       5         20      Fdu, Eco, ALdu
Postappraisal    10/1983      3          15     Edu, AEdu, Arch  |
Suplervision     9/1984                 21      Edu, Eco                  1            M
Supervision      2/1985       2          15     Ecu, Edu                  I            NI
Supervision     10/1985       2          15     Ecu, Arch                 I             I
SuLpervision     6/1986        1         7      Ec)                       1            MN
Supervision     1 1/1986       1         5      T'S                      n a.
s|luprvision    10/1987        1         15     I'S                       1            M
Supervision     11/1987        1         15     Arch                     n.a.
Supervision      5/1988        2         12     TS, Agr.                 n.a.
Supervision      11/1988       2         15     TS, A- r.                 I            NI
Supervision      10!i989       2         12     TS, Arch                  I            NI
Supervision      5/1990        I         8      TS                        1            M
Supervision      3/1991        1         8      TS                        I            M
Supervision      11/1991       1         14     TS                        2            M
Supervision      6/1992        1        21      TS                        I            M
a/     AEdu=Agricultural Educator, Agr=Agriculture, Arch=Archit-ct, Eco= Econormist.
Edu=Educator, EduP=Educational Planner, NMS=Media Specialist, OA  Operations
Assistant, TEdu=Technical Educator, TS=Training Specialist.
h/     I = Problem free or minor problems, 2= Moderate Problems, 2 = Major problems
ci     M-M  Management



...  fAN....... 
KA/A.3.~  FAN                                                  ;                                                                                                                                              -                   V
_  f Kr ,
o                   -                                                                                                                                                                                          0 
0.
i N'!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ASS                                                                   S
- :: 7/. 'S. ...SV
.V  .    ..  L ..         AR 
. .1   ' bo,  -  .-  ;    @                                   0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      SS .s    -f,]
::~~~~ ~ ~ j55 .:51.'          Rk2                                                                                                                                                                       -  
"<:':~~~~~  .p '  '        ''  :                        
., !   : .e                                                                                                                                                                                                                 {:      i   -~~~~~~~~~4A   ;
6  N   F>  NASA  S'S'~  0p                                                                                 P
_~                                                                                                                                .,~rF h  A



