Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4871-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
May 21, 1984
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00 = Renminbi Yuan (Y) 2.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AFS   - Agricultural Film Studio
CABS - Central Agricultural Broadcasting School
CNTIC - China National Technical Import Corporation
MAAF - Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN/CRED'T AND PRO.;ECT SUMMARY *...........*....    ............  iv
BASIC DATA       ......................*........*.........**..*  vii
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION  ..      ................*.....    1
Overview .. .  me em em........m.......*.m*mmm.mm me em.......    1
Principal Features and Issues in Agricultural Education ...    2
Government Strategy and Bank Group Role mmmmmemmmm.mmm.mmmm    5
THE PROJECT    ......m., .................. ...m.    6
Project Objectives and Scope ..em..                .m....        6
Project Components   .  mm. me ec C  ..     ..m..  mmmcm....     7
Agricultural Colleges . *m*mm em. em. mm. inC........... .    7
Training and Extension Support Centers       ...............   10
Agricultural Technical Schools ...... 690*060060*69....    11
Distance Learning and Educational Support Facilities..   12
Evaluation, Plar.ning, and Preparation
of Future Projects   .me * mmmmem.* m em   ......       13
Project Management and Implementation  .mmemseemmmm.mmmsee   14
Status of Project Preparation  ..eeeeme.m.m.e.ee.eeeme.ee.   14
Project Cost and Financing   .e....e.   14
Procurement ...mmmm.mm.mmmm.mmemmemmmm.mm.m.mmmmm.mmmm.   15
Disbursement .me.m.......me ......m.e.  mm......mee.m...    17
Benefits and Risks  ...... me.me mmcm. .me em ....mm....me.   18
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION oee...........                19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in July 1983
comprising Messrs. V. Billeh (General Educator, Mission Leader), D. Hartzog
(Agricultural Educator, Consultant), D.C. Kimmel (Agricultural Educator, PAO),
Mses. V. Li (Economist), and P. Harrell (Educational Planner, Consultant), and
a postappraisal mission in October 1983 comprising Messrs. V. Billeh (Mission
Leader), D.C. Kimmel, and V. Demetriou (Architect). Messrs. F. Farner
(General Educator), S.Z. Sung (Technical Educator) and S. Futagami (Mass Media
Specialist) also assisted in project preappraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES                                                                   Page No
1.  Notes on Higher and Secondary Agricultural Institutions...........         21
Table 1: Aiigher and Secondary Educational Institutions
- Number and Enrollment.... .......................         23
2. Academic Staff of Agricultural Colleges
and Technical Schools
a.  Academic Staff of Newly Assisted Project Colleges..leges......         24
Table 1: Academic Staff in 12 Colleges by Rank, Age,
Educational Level, Source, Teaching
Experience and Se.                                        26
b. Academic Staff of 12 Agricultural Technical Schools
by Rank, Ate, Sex, Years of Postsecondary Education
and Teaching Experience.... .... . ... .................. 7....  7
3. The Organization and Function of The Training and
Extension Support Centers                                                28
4. Project Institutions
a.  Project Institutions by Affiliation and Location..............         30
b.  Project Institutions by Type and Geographical Regionion,......         33
5. Number of Trainees by Type of Course at 12 Newly Assisted
Colleges in 1982-1983.......................................u...    34
6. Project Agricultural Colleges
a. Summary of Existing and Planned Academic Facilities,
Dormitories, and Experimental Farms at Project
Newly Assisted Colleges..... ....  . .....                         35
b. Types of Laboratories/Centers to be Established or
Strengthened at Project Newly Assisted Colleges.s.*...ge.s.        36
c. Examples of Seminars for the Agricultural Colleges and
Number of Participating Staff from Each College.lege.**..           37
7. Technical Assistance Programs
a.  Overseas Staff Training Programo..g             ra........,.........0.0.0*0    39
b.  Specialist Services Program ........                                   40
8.  Project Model Facilities...                                                41
9. Project Agricultural Technical Schools
a. Fields of Specialization at the 12 Agricultural
Technical    Shos44
b. Summary of Existing and Planned Academic Facilities
and Dormitories at the 12 Agricultural Technical Schools....    45
c, Suggested Seminars for Agricultural Technical Schools,
Number of Participating Staff from Each School, and
Number of Specialists  ............... . . . .. . .. .. ...  ................ 46
10. Project Organizational Structure..............................*    ......   47
11. Project   I      niaos48
12. Project Costs and Implementation
a.  Project Cost Summary.............................- ...........         50
b.  Summary Account By Time.  .               .......    51
c.  Summary Account By Project Component.....e..e....e....e.....e.    52
d.  Financsibas  Pe an . l............ ..   .........................    53
e.  Disbursement   S       ceue54
f.  Implementation Schedule.**..******* ...                            55
13. Selected Documents and Data Available in The Project Fi         le         56



- iii -
MAP
IBRD 17527 - Locations of Project Institutions



- iv -
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Amount:           Loan:  $45.3 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Credit: SDR 22 million ($23.5 million equivalent)
Terms:            Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Credit: Standard
Project
Description:      The project constitutes the second phase of the Govern-
ment'slong-term strategy to improve the quality and supply of
high- and middle-level agricultural manpower. The project
would provide funds for civil works, furniture, equipment,
technical assistance and fellowships to: (a) improve and
expand preservice and inservice training at 23 key
agricultural colleges; (b) establish 8 training and extension
support centers to train staff for the MAAF's extension
system; (c) assist the Government in defining a development
strategy for secondary/postsecondary agricultural education
by introducing a pilot program to strengthen 12 agricultural
technical schools; and (d) improve the quality and increase
the supply of instructional materials by assisting 3 central
distance learning and educational support facilities.
The main benefit of the project would be to promote agricul-
tural development, by increasing the provision of well-
trained agricultural professionals and technicians, and by
assisting the Gover4iment in tailoring educational development
policy to future manpower needs. Risks are that the
complexity of project design may impede effective implementa-
tion and that seminars to transfer new technologies and
teaching methods may not be efficiently organized. Organiza-
tional arrangements, which include establishment of
coordinating and advisory panels, would reduce these risks.



v
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total/a
------- $ million
A. Agricultural Colleges
12 Newly Assisted Colleges                  39.4       27.9       67.3
11 Previously Assisted Colleges             22.9       12.4       35.3
Food Science Department                    0.9        1.2        2.1
Library                                    2.8        2.4        5.2
Technical Assistance                       2.6        9.2       11.8
Subtotal                               68.7       53.0      121.7
B. Training and Extension Support
8 Centers                                     3.0       4.0        7.0
Technical Assistance                       0.2        1.0        1.2
Subtotal                                3.2        5.0        8.2
C. Agric. Sec. Specialized Schools
12 Schools                                   4.6        4.0        8.7
Technical Assistance                       0.3        0.8        1.1
Subtotal                                4.9        4.9        9.8
D. Distance Learning & Support Facilities
3 Facilities                                  1.1       1.7        2.6
Technical Assistance                       0.1        0.4        0.4
Subtotal                                 1.2        2.1        3.3
E.  Evaluation, Planning & Preparation
of Future Projects                           0.3        1.0        1.2
Base Cost                               78.2       65.9      144.2
Physical Contingencies                          3.9        3.3        7.2
Price Contingencies                            12.9      10.7       23.6
Total Project Costs /b                  95.0       79.9/c   175.0
Front-end fee on Bank loan                       -         0.1       0.1
Charge on use of foreign capital              27.5         -        27.5
Total Financ.'ng Required              122.6       80.0      202.6
/a   Some totals may not add up because of rounding.
/b   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
7T   Consists of $68.7 million of direct foreign exchange and $11.2 million of
indirect foreign exchange.



- vi -
Financing Plan:                                        Local    Foreign    Total
------- $ million       -
IBRD                                                 -45.3              45.3
IDA                                                  -       23.5       23.5
Government                                        122.6       11.2     133.8
Total                                        122.6       80.0      202.6
Estimated           IBRD/IDA FY       85    86      87     88      89     90
Disbursements:                   ------------ $ million -------------
Annual        0.7   6.3.  10.0   24.0   21.0    6.8
Cumulative   0.7   7.0   17.0   41.0   62.0   68.8
Rate of Return:        N.A.



- vli -
SEF    I AiaELMPOL EUCATN PPCr
Basic Data 1982
Genral
Total Population                       1,008 milion
Primary           Secoa                Hir
(Grades 1-5/6)    (Grades 6-10/11)    (Grades 12-15)    Total
Enrollment
BdiT4tucation (mln)                 140.0                 45.0              1.7  /a      186.7
% of age group                       93                   4Z                3.1Z7iT
Nnformla Eiucation (mln)              7.6                  4.3              0.7           12.6
EmLimolt ('000)
NLuiber of     Of which       under-      Of which        Post-           Full-tit
institutions  agriculture /c  graduates agiculture /c  graduate t            staff
I!ghnr Education
Universities and Colleges/d       521               72    }  1,153           94          21.3   }       287
Specialized Colleges/e            194               13    }                   6                 }
Total                         715              85        1,153          100          21.3          287
Science arnd Technical Personmel
Nb. of scientific and techrdcal personnel:                                                          5.7 di.l1ion
Technical personnel per 1,000 people:                                                               5.7
Technical personnel per 1,000 staff and workers:                                                   68.0
Expenditure on Education
Total expenditure on education as % of total national incme                                         3.1%
Government expenditure on educatiom as % of government expenditures                                 9.6%
Government capital expenditure on education as % of government capital eqpediture                   5.970
Governnent recurrent expenditure on education as % of government recurrent expenditures             7.5%
Percentage Allocation of Public Recurrent Egcenditure on Education
Primary - 34%        Secondary - 39%        Higher - 27%
/a  Includes 0.5 mniJion postsecondary students enrolled in technical schools.
lb Includes nonformal education.
7T Includes Forestry, Water Resources and Meteorology.
Td Four years of study or wre.
7T Two to three years of study.



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
Overview
1.        To supply the food needs of a population now over a billion and raw
materials for an expanding industrial sector, China must lncrease agricultural
output. The potential for increase is limited by a number of factors,
including the scarcity of arable land, major problems of soil and water
conservation, and the difficulty of raising food grain yields beyond already
high levels. In an effort to boost production in the face of these con-
straints, the Government since 1979 has initiated new development strategies
including: (a) a major push to modernize agricultutre by increasing science and
technology inputs to farm production; and (b) decentralization of production
planning and management to the production team and farm household levels. The
long-term success of these strategies depends on the availability of well-
trained professional and middle-level manpower: managers to plan and
administer agricultural development programs; researchers to advance science
and technology; and technicians to channel new knowledge and improved skills
to producers. Providing this manpower is the task of the agricultural
education system.
2.        Agricultural Manpower Requirements.  Manpower requirements in
agriculture and the implications for educational planning are the focus of a
pilot study in Jiangsu Province launched in 1982 as part of the Association-
assisted Agricultural Education and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CIRA). Although
the precise dimensions of manpower need must await conclusion of the Jiangsu
study, recent projections indicate shortages of appropriately-trained
personnel at both professional and technician levels. Colleges are currently
striving to overcome such shortages, but efforts are constrained by limited
enrollment reapacity and inadequate quality of instruction and range of curri-
cula. Based on present enrollments of postgraduates in the agricultural
sciences totalling about 1,200, the Government estimates that requirements for
personnel with advanced degrees between 1983-90 will exceed availability by
more than 15,000. At the college graduate and technician levels, shortages
are most acute in specialized fields such as forestry and meteorology where
the present flow of around 5-6,000 graduates per year can satisfy only half of
the annual requirement over the decade. Overall, it is estimated that there
are currently only about four agricultural technicians per 10,000 agricultural
workers in rural areas. As critical as the need to add new personnel to the
labor force is the need to upgrade the qualifications of already-employed
personnel, both professionals and technicians. According to Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries (MAAF)/FAO data, of 140,000
technical personnel employed in the MAAF-administered general extension
network, 80,000 are in need of upgrading as are another 150,000 staffing the
animal husbandry and veterinary science stations.  The demand for in-
service training in agriculture for secondary school teachers is 8ilso a
mounting concern as the Government seeks to strengthen the agricultural
curriculum in secondary schools nationwide.



Principal Features and Issues in Agricultural Edticatitn
3.        hIigher Education (Annex 1). There are 85 institutions of higher
education in agriculture and related fields witlh a tutal student enrollment in
1981/82 of about 100,000 including 1% at the postgraduate level. This
represents only 8% of the total 1.2 million students enrolled in China's 715
higher education institutions. Seventy-two of the 85 agricultural institu-
tions are classified as colleges and universities (daxue and xueyuan) and
offer programs of four years or more leading to the bachelor of science and
advanced degrees. The remaining 13 are two to tlhree-year specialized colleges
(dazhuan) which award postsecondary diplomas in technical education.  In
addition to th-ese preservice programs, colleges and universities are currently
providing various forms of inservice training - e.g. sparetime, evening, and
correspondence courses - as part of a crash program to upgrade the qualifica-
tions of a generation of cadres who received a substandard education during
the Cultural Revolution. Inservice enrollments swell student rauks by as much
as 50% with a corresponding effect on the student/teacher ratio which, based
on regular enrollments, is a low 3.2:1. As in other fields, students are
admitted to the agricultural colleges on the basis of their scores on a
uniform national entrance examination. In 1982 only 17% or 315,000 of the
total number of applicants in all fields gained admission. According to
recent statistics, the gross enrollment ratio for higher education in China is
only 3.7% compared to 7.4% in other developing countries. Agriculture is not
generally the first choice of candidates with the result that those admitted
to university are likely to be lower ranking students though still in the top
85-90 percentile of those taking the entrance examination.
4.        Though efforts are now underway to assist selected institutions,
agricultural colleges as a whole are hampered in their efforts to respond to
the national need for well-qualified teachers, administrators, researchers,
and extension personnel by: (a) poorly qualified staff: on the average, less
than 25% of the teaching staff at the agricultural colleges have had any post-
graduate education and only 8% have had two years or more (Annex 2a); (b)
inadequate equipment: presently available teaching equipment allows for
conducting only around 60% of the required laboratory exercises and, at t1re
postgraduate and research level, equipment is both in short supply and often
obsoleLe; (c) lack of space and/or substandard facilities: buildings gener-
ally are poorly designed, constructed and maintained and inefficiently used;
(d) weaknesses in curricula: study programs are narrowly technical and often
outdated, and fail to adequately emphasize the range of course offerings
appropriate to future needs for scientific and teaching personnel, such as
agricultural economics and management, range management and development, food
technology and nutrition and agricultural and extension education; and (e)
inefficient organization and management of resources: management weaknesses
are evident in areas such as staff and space utilization and operation of
library facilities.
5.        Training and Extension Support Centers.  The MAAF administers a vast
extension network headed by a general extension bureau in Beijing and encom-
passlng a hierarchy of agencies/units reaching downward to the provincial,
county, commune, brigade and production team levels. Though China's past
agricultural successes must be attributed in large part to the effective



working of thlis system, the Government in recent years lhas instituted a major
program to fuirtlher upgrade extension facilities and personnlel with a special
focus on building county-operated agro-techliical stations.  In an effort to
mobilize coilege resources in support of th.s program, the Government h1as
decided to establish on an experimental basie eight college-based training and
extension support centers in eiglht grain producing provinces. If successful,
it is planned to extend the model to all provinces.  The primary function of
the support centers (Annex 3) is to provide inservice training to management
cadres attached to commune, county and provincial agricultural bureaus and co
senior techniclans assigned to MAAF county agro-tecthnical stations, new units
integrating several previously independent services - e.g., seed, plant
protection, and soil and fertilizer services.  Thiree hundred county statins
are already in existence with another 2,000 planned. Senior technicians whio
receive refresher training at the college centers will train lower-level
cadres and technicians in turn. The eight centers are designed to train and
upgrade annually about 2,000 management cadres and 7,000 technicians.  The
eight colleges involved in the first phase program are developing additional
training programs to suit particular local needs and conditions. For example,
both Hunan and Jiangsu Agricultural Colleges will make use of extension cen'.er
resources in developing new agricultural education and extension programs to
train secondary school teachers. In addition to their training functions, the
extension support centers will assist in providing technical services to
experiment/demonstration sites upon request by local agricultural bureaus.
6.        The colleges are limited in their capacity to contribute to a major
na-ional program to strengthen the MAAF-administered extension service by:
(a) lack of a centralized unit for coordinating extension support activities
presently carried out by various departments; (b) insufficient equipment to
effectively train extension workers and respond to coramunity needs for con-
sulting services; and (c) lack of staff experienced in extension education
metlhods.
7.        Secondary Education (Annex 1). In line with current policy which
calls for moving away from the single track system of general education in
vogue during the Cultural Revolution and re-emphasizing academic and
vocational tracking, plans are underway to shift about half of the students in
general secondary schoois (putong zhongxuexiao) into either secondary
agricultural and vocational schools (nongzhong ji zhiye zhongxue) or technical
schools (zhongzhuan - literally, "middle specialized"). Progress has been
slow: according to recent figures, of more than 6.5 million senior secondary
level students, about 96% are still enrolled in general education institu-
tions. Schools already converted include about 3,000 technical schools
enrolling 1.1 million students of whom 74% are in vocational streams. Most of
these schools at present provide two to three-year programs for senior secon-
dary graduates; some also offer two to four years of training for junior
secondary graduates. About 440 of these schools, with enrollments at 110,000,
provide agricultural technical training. Programs are highly specialized -
e.g., atmospheric sounding and agricultural meteorology in the meteorology
specialized schools - but the schools have not been accorded higher or post-
secondary standing and, in fact, the Government's stated long-term goal is to
revert to the model in use before the Cultural Revolution when the technical
school was wholly a continuing school for junior secondary graduates. This



- 4 -
plan may not be desirable in view of:  the enormous demand for additional
training on the part of senior graduates unable to gain admission to
institutions of higher education; the agricultural sector's need for large
numbers of technicians witr' more than senior secondary but less than college
level training; and considera. ons of cost and effectiveness in having
colleges provide this form of training.
8.        The system of agricultural technical schools is limited in its
effectiveness by: (a) lack of a coherent program of institutional
development: the Government has not yet determined a set of guidelines for
the future development of the technical schools based on manpower requirements
and the present training capacity of the agricultural education system; (b)
inadequate equipment and facilities: since most technical schools were closed
down or suffered damage during the Cultural RevolutiLn, equipment and
facilities are often lacking or substandard; (c) curriculum weakness: there is
too much emphasis on the teaching of basic sciences and consequent neglect of
applied skills appropriate to technicians' jobs; and (d) inappropriately
trained teaching (Annex 2b) and administrative staff.
9.        Distance Learning and Educational Support Facilities.  Under the
MAAF are three agencies with special responsibilities for providing distance
learning and producing educational materials for use in agricultural colleges
and secondary schools:
(a) Central Agricultural Broadcasting School (CABS): The CABS was
established in September 1980 to provide secondary school
equivalency programs via radio to farmers, cadres and technical
workers in outlying areas. Classes are held in 8,000 communes in
1,500 counties. Of an estimated 430,000 regular listeners, about
130,000 took final examinations offered in 1982 in the chemistry,
botany, soils and fertilizers, and genetics and breeding programs.
Growth of CABS operations is limited by: (i) poorly qualified
staff: there are no staff members trained in program production so
that CABS must rely exclusively on the Ministry of Broadcasting for
both production and transmission; and (ii) inadequate alternative
means of program delivery.
(b) Agricultural Film Studio (AFS): The Beijing AFS with its staff of
around 90 technical personnel produces 16mm and 35mm educational
films for use in agricultural secondary schools, technical schools
and colleges and universities throughout the country. Coverage at
present extends to institutions in about 1,000 counties. Management
of film design, production, and distribution is effectively handled
by the AFS with various bureaus within the MAAF and Ministry of
Education playing an advisory role and the China Film Publication
Company acting as distributing agent. However, certain technical
weaknesses limit AFS production capacity. Operating with outmoded
16 mm film technology rather than the more efficient video techno-
logy, the AFS can produce only 80 films or 13 hours of viewing
annually, far below the estimated 1,100 hours of master tapes needed
to adequately supply the country's agricultural institutions. The
AFS also lacks staff trained in new video techniques.



-5-
(c)  Printing Plant:  The Printing Plant of the MAAF's Publishing House
is responsible for producing books, journals and other teaching
materials for the agricultural colleges and schools. Lack of
equipment makes it impossible for the Plant to respond adequately to
growinr demands for printing such materials.
Government Strategy and Bank Group Role
10.       To alleviate shortages of well-qualified technical, research and
teaching personnel in agriculture, the Goverr.ent has decided to: (a) estab-
lish a system of key agricultural colleges: high quality teaching/research
institutions capable of playing a leading role in all aspects of agricultural
modernization; (b) expand the role of both key and non-key colleges in
providing staff training and technical support services for the agricultural
extension system; (c) restructure the secondary school system with a view to
increasing the number of schools offering vocational and technical education
in agriculture; and (d) expand distance learrning opportunities in agriculture.
In implementing this strategy, the Government faces problems of recruiting
agricultural students from rural areas and retaining them there after train-
ing: of 860,000 agricultural technicians trained nationwide since the early
1950's, 5C0,000 have left the countryside for jobs in urban centers.  Through
new policies - a special quota system on admissions of rural students to agri-
cultural colleges and secondary schools and salary incentives to encourage
graduates to return to the countryside to work - the Government hopes to
develop a core of committed agricultural professionals and technicians.
11.       Bank Group support for the Government's program of expanding and
improving agricultural education is part of a larger Bank Group effort to help
China meet critical requirements for high-level manpower in various science
and technical fields. Strengthening higher education has been the thrust of
three education projects now underway in China: University Development I
(Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA), Agricultural Education and Research (Cr. 1297-CHA),
and Polytechnic/TVU (Cr. 1411).  Important sectoral objectives pursued through
these projects include achieving quality teaching with emphasis on the
undergraduate level; itpdatung, revising and expanding curricula; improving
management methods and institutional efficiency; transferring knowledge and
advanced technology through equipment purchases, fellowships and specialist
services; and contributing to the Government's efforts to make more efficient
use of capital investments in civil works. An additional important feature of
the Agricultural Education and Research Project is the inclusion of two
studies: a manpower study, now well underway, has effectively demonstrated
the potential uses of manpower' analysis for educational planning; and a
national research study, being carried out ahead of schedule, is designed to
clarify the Government's research policies, plans and strategies. The Bank
Group is continuing to make a significant contribution to improve project
design through advice on how to make curricula more relevant to present and
anticipated needs, how to ensure that equipment acquisitions are appropriate
to teaching objectives, and how to plan and direct future investments. Given
the present low level of university enrollment (para. 3), higher education and
the aforementioned set of objectives will remain a focus of Bank assistance
efforts. At the same time, in view of projected demands for preservice
training of middle-level personnel and for inservice training at both middle



- 6 -
and higher levels (para. 2), the Bank also supports extending assistance
activities tD secondary and nonformal education and to various kinds of
inservice training including, in agriculture, education programs for extensioi
personnel. Some of these activities will take the form of pilot progrnams
designed to create model institutions that might be replicated throug'hout the
education system and to contribute to the Government's efforts to develop an
integrated policy for strengthening the subsector as a whole.
THE PROJECT
12.       The proposed project was prepared by the M-AAF and was appraised in
July 1983.  Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 30 to May 7,
1984, with a Chinese delegation headed by Mr. Ge Fucun, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives and Scope
13.       The project would help the Government expand and upgrade profes-
sional and middle-level agricultural manpower by providing assistance to four
types of institutions: colleges, training and extension support centers,
technical schools (zhongzhuanl, and distance learning/educational support
facilities (Annex 4).  ContInued support for higher education is necessary to
raise enrollments in the agricultural sciences, now only 8% of all
undergraduates and 2% of postgraduates. The proposed project would broaden
the support for higher education provided under Cr. 1297-CHA by extending
assistance to colleges in a wider range of agricultural/geographical zones and
placing greater emphasis on the role of the agricultural college as a com-
munity and regional resource. The project would give increased priority to
strengthening undergraduate education over ostgraduate education and
research. In addition, the project would -dd new dimensions to previous
assistance by supporting institutions training agricultural technicians -
technical schools and a radio broadcast school - and by initiating support for
facilities producing educational materials. The project would provide funds
for civil works, equipment, and technical assistance to: (a) expand and
improve preservice education and inservice training at 23 key agricultural
colleges; (b) expand the community services role of the agricultural colleges
by establishing eight training and extension support centers functioning
within the college teaching/research framework to train staff and provide
technical services for the MAAF's extension system; (c) assist the Government
in defining a development strategy for secondary/postsecondary agricultural
education by introducing a pilot program to strengthen 12 technical schools;
(d) broaden nonformal training opportunities and increase the supply of
instructional materials by assisting a radio broadcast school, a film/video
production center, and a printshop; and (e) support evaluation, planning and
preparation of future projects.



-7-
Project Components
Agricultural Colleges (estimated outlay of $121.7 million excluding
contingencies)
14.       The project would provide assistance to develop 23 key agricultural
colleges into "centers of excellence" capable of produ.ing a core of high
quality professionals essential to China's agricultural modernization program.
Strengthening of higher education and research programs at the 23 project
institutions would be expected to have an impact on non-selected agricultural
colleges, on the research network, and on agricultural secondary institutions
through an expanded in-country training role assumed by the 23 as a cost-
effective substitute for overseas training. In this fashion, for example,
curriculum changes instituted at the project colleges would be transferred
over time to non-project institutions. In addition to strengthening training
programs for professionals, the project would help colleges improve technician
level inservice training activities (Annex 5). Twelve of the 23 colleges have
been newly selected for inclusion in this second phase program; they comprise
seven national and five provincial colleges representing a range of major
disciplines and a variety of agricultural/geographical zones including three
of China's border regions. Eleven of the 23 are already receiving Bank Group
assistance, one under Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA and ten under Cr. 1297-CHA.
Newly Assisted Colleges
15.       The project would support 12 agricultural colleges in a broad pro-
gram of increasing enrollment, improving the quality of instruction, introduc-
ing new specializations, and improving management.
16.       Enrollment Increases.  At the 12 newly-assisted colleges, there are
currently 19,500 students in regular degree programs and 10,300 in diploma and
other short-term courses. By the end of the project, enrollment is expected
to increase by 60% to 32,000 students in the case of degree programs and
remain at current levels for non-degree programs which will be phased out
gradually to make way for further expansion of undergraduate places.
Increased enrollment and output would be achieved primarily by provision of
new facilities, including laboratories and classrooms, as well as some reha-
bilitation of outmoded or damaged facilities (Annex 6a).
17.       Improvements In Instruction and Curricula.  Quality improvements
would be achieved through a combination of improved facilities (para. 16),
acquisition of modern teaching and research equipment, and technical assis-
tance. The project would finance basic and standard laboratory equipment to
be used in teaching undergraduate science courses as well as selected pieces
of advanced and specialized equipment which would enable the colleges to raise
standards of postgraduate training and research (Annex 6b). Equipment
acquired under the project would permit an increase in the percentage of
required experiments actually conducted from 60% to 90%, enable institutions
to respond to community demands for special courses, and help meet research
and postgraduate studies development needs. In addition to science equipment,
each college would acquire modest audiovisual equipment and instructional
materials to supplement and enrich standard textbooks. A technical assistance



- 8 -
program including local training, foreign fellowships, and specialist
services, would help strengthen the professional qualifications of the
teaching staff at the 12 agricultural colleges (Annex 7a). The proposed
project would provide 1,200 in-country fellowships (1,250 man-years) and 369
overseas fellowships (376 man-years) to strengthen staff capability in the
agricultural sciences and education. The language centers established under
Cr. 1297-CHA would be extended under the proposed project through provision of
13 man-years of specialists in language training. The project would also
finance 30 man-years of local and foreign specialists (180 persons) to conduct
36 seminars/workshops focussing on new technologies, teaching methodology, and
curriculum development. The curriculum currently followed at the agricultural
colleges needs updating in certain specialized science fields as well as
diversification to include broadly integrative courses such as farming sys-
tems, economics, and management. The seminars, each 1-2 months in length,
would be conducted locally by teams of Chinese and foreign specialists for
gr-'ups of project colleges with common fields of study. About 1,000 persons
(15k; of the staff) would receive seminar training (Annex 6c). These staff
members in turn would be encouraged to take the lead in refashioning curricula
at their respective institutions.
18.       Management Improvement.  The proposed project would also address
college management problems (para. 4) through provision of short-term local
and foreign fellowships and specialist services. Staff development plans
drawn up by each project college call for sending senior college administra-
tors for short-term management training within 'hina or to observe management
of similar institutions abroad. Two man-years of specialist services would be
used in conducting management seminars in China for groups of colleges. The
focus of this training would be such topics as methods of class scheduling to
optimize use of space and equipment, computerization of financial and academic
records, operation of library computer, and audiovisual facilities, and plann-
ing, design, and maintenance of civil works. Three colleges would be selected
for a pilot program to introduce such improved management methods. Foreign
specialists would assist in conducting case studies and designing a management
improvement program. Successful experiences in the three colleges would be
transferred to other institutions. The Government expects that by the end of
the project the student/teacher ratio at project colleges would be raised from
the present 3.2:1 to 6:1, the space utilization rate would be improved from
40% to 70%. Library open hours would be extended from 40 to 80 hours per
week, and "open stacks" library operation instituted.
Previously-assisted Colleges
19.       Eleven of the 23 colleges in the proposed project are already
receiving Bank Group assistance as part of the Government's first phase effort
to strengthen agricultural education. Beijing Agricultural University, which
received support under the Bank's First education project, has completed
constructioa uf civil works and purchases of new laboratory equipment and is
presently implemlenting its technical assistance program. Ten colleges
assisted under Cr. 1297, effective in February, 1983, are proceeding on
schedule with civil works for new laboratories and classroom buildings, have
completed award of bids for new equipment purchases, and have begun a program
of sending fellows for overseas study and training. The participation of some



- 9 -
administrative and academic staff in overseas fellowships and study tours, as
well as the program of technical assistance, has already enhanced the ability
of college, ministry and provincial staff in management, teacher training, and
civil works standards and design. These 11 colleges are now ready to plan and
carry out additional programs, specifically to enable them to take the lead in
providing in-country training to staff of other agricultural colleges and
secondary schools. To this end, the second phase financing included under the
1,roposed project would support the following specific objectives: (a) to
support essential specializations, both at the undergraduate and graduate
levels, not cc,rered in the previous project; and (b) to establish modern
library facili ies and strengthen library staff.
20.       Civil works at the previously assisted colleges would cover con-
struction and renovation of libraries and laboratories. Equipment acquisi-
tions would comprise: (a) up-to-date books and journals and audiovisual
equipment designed to establish the library as a pivotal resource in the
teaching/research tasks of the college; and (b) a range of standard and
advanced laboratory equipment, which would enable the colleges to strengthen
laboratories needed for postgraduate and extension-related research and for
the introduction of new fields such as food science, agro-ecology and environ-
mental protection. To help upgrade the qualifications of library and teaching
staff in new fields charged with directing postgraduate research, the proposed
project would provide 30 overseas fellowships (56 man-years) for advanced
training. About 25 man-years of specialist services (local and foreign) would
be used in conducting seminars for groups of colleges (para. 17) (Annex 6c).
21.       The project would provide a special program of civil works, equip-
ment, professional services (foreign and local) for design and supervision,
and technical assistance to help two of the 23 colleges establish model
facilities: a model library at Beijing Agricultural University and a model
food science department at Central China Agricultural College. Establishment
of these facilities would be expected not only to strengthen programs at the
colleges where they are located, but to have a broad impact on institutional
development throughout the system of agricultural colleges. Moreover the Bank
Group's involvement in the financing of civil works and related design
services would provide Bank Group staff with the opportunity to review
planning and construction of small-scale civil works much more closely than
has been possible thus far. It is expected that with better subsector
knowledge and detailed involvement of Bank Group staff, the Bank Group may be
able to make an important contribution to the efficiency and cost effective-
ness of design and construction of educational buildings in China. To do
this, the staff must be able both (a) to understand better all aspects of
current procedures, design standards and construction techniques as now
normally applied in China, and (b) to demonstrate at least some of the
benefits inherent in better design, more modern materials and more competitive
construction procedures. The proposed model facilities meet these needs at
modest cost and with acceptable risk and have the following specific
objectives within this project: (i) to improve the planning and design
capabilities of local architects; (ii) to demonstrate the effectiveness for
teaching and research of modern functional facilities; (iii) to initiate the
process of preparing for competitive bidding and cost effective construction
techniques and supervision; and (iv) to strengthen library science and food



- 10 -
science, two underdeveloped fields in China. Innovations and improvements
introduced at the two project colleges would be extended to other institutions
through special staff training programs set up for this purpose. Beijing
Agricultural University, in conjunction with the model library, would
establish a department of library science to offer degree training in this
much neglected field.
22.       Civil works costs for the two model facilities would cover both
local and foreign design services, supervision, management and construction,
including certain imported building materials, for the following: (a) book-
stack areas, reading rooms, audiovisual laboratories, and materials duplica-
tion and preservation facilities for the library; and (b) specialized labora-
tories and food processing workslhops for the food science department. Equip-
ment provided at each of the facilities would comprise: (i) up-to-date books
and journals, duplicating and audiovisual equipment, and a computer; and
(ii) a range of standard and advanced laboratory equipment. The technical
assistance program would include 30 local fellowships (16 man-years), 25 over-
seas fellowships (24 man-years), and specialist services (3.5 man-years) in
the fields of library science and food storage, processing and preservation.
Training and Extension Support Cenxt'.rs (estimated outlay of $8.2 million
excludialg contingencies)
23.       To utilize college resources efficiently in upgrading extension
personnel and management cadres, the project would assist eight colleges
located in grain producing provinces to establish training and extension
support centers. Two among the eight colleges - Central China Agricultural
College and Northeast Agricultural College - are also receiving assistance
under the colleges component (paras. 14-20). In establishing the centers, the
project would enable the colleges to centralize and expand inservice training
programs, to develop new extension methodologies, and to improve delivery of
technical services. This wculd help facilitate the two-way flow of communica-
tion between the academic community and farm production units in tackling
problems of agricultural modernization.
24.       Expanded training capacity.  By the end of the project the centers
would be expected to train annually in short courses about 2,000 cadres and
7,000 technicians to staff county agro-technical stations and agricultural
bureaus. The centers would also initiate plans for upgrading secondary school
teachers preparatory to establishing a full-fledged agricultural and extension
education curriculum. Increased enrollment in training programs would be
achieved primarily by provision of new and/or remodelled facilities, including
libraries, classrooms and laboratories.
25.       Improved curriculum.  Improvements in curriculum would be attained
by expanded facilities (para. 24), acquisition of modern teaching equipment
and machinery, and fellowships and specialist services. Proposed equipment
acquisitions include: (a) a mobile laboratory to be used primarily for
training in the field and for testing and diagnostic purposes; and (b) labora-
tory equipment to be used both by the centers and by the college as a whole.
The project would support 48 local fellowships (24 man-years) and 76 overseas
fellowships (36 man-years) for college faculty recruited as extension center



- 11 -
staff. Local training would focus on audiovisual techniques and use of
laboratory testing instruments.  For the latter courses, trainees would be
sent to one of nine testing centers recently set up by the MAAF. Each center
would send staff members abroad for advanced training in agricultural and
extension education, agricultural economics/farm management, and applied
agricultural sciences. The project would also finance study tours for the
center directors and senior staff to visit similar college-based extension
support facilities abroad. In addition, the project would provide eight man-
years of local specialists and five man-years of foreign specialists to
conduct Joint seminars in China at each center for staff from two to three
centers and othar colleges. Seminar topics would include teaching and com-
munications methods, center organization and management, farm and enterprise
planning and management, and production and use of teaching materials.
Agricultural Technical Schools (Zhongzhuan) (estimated outlay of $9.8 million
excluding contingencies)
26.       As part of a first phase effort to expand the output and improve the
job-related training of secondary technical graduates in agriculture, the
project would help reorient and upgrade programs at 12 technical schools now
offering two to four years of training to senior and/or junior secondary grad-
uates and short-term inservice courses for agricultural technicians and
teachers. All 12 schools have been classified as key institutions (Annex 1).
Nine schools are run by provincial bureaus operating under the MAAF. Five of
these offer general agriculture programs and four specialize in animal hus-
bandry, fisheries, farm machinery and land reclamation respectively. Three
schools are attached to the Ministry of Water Conservancy, Central Bureau of
Meteorology and Ministry of Forestry and offer specializations accordingly
(Annex 9a). The project would assist the 12 selected schools to expand
enrollment, raise the quality of instruction, and improve management. Moni-
toring and evaluation of this component by a special panel of Chinese planners
and administrators will help the Government formulate a coherent program for
strengthening the entire system of agricultural technical schools which is now
being revived after virtual abandonment during the Cultural Revolution
(para. 7). The Government aims to develop this program by 1987. The Govern-
ment's strategy over the next decade is to increase the ratio of agriculture
students at the secondary level to those in higher institutions from the
present 1.5/1 to 3/1.
27.       Enrollment Increases.  There are currently 5,000 regular students
and 2,000 inservice trainees enrolled in the 12 technical schools. By the end
of the project, regular student enrollment would be expected to reach 9,000,
with inservice enrollment remaining at current levels. This increase would be
achieved through rehabilitation of facilities damaged during the Cultural
Revolution and provision of new facilities (Annex 9b).
28.       Improvements in Instruction and Curricula.  Since many of the
technical schools lack adequate equipment, acquisition of modern teaching
equipment would be fundamental to raising the quality of instruction in spe-
cialized fields. Under the project the schools would strengthen their work-
shops, laboratories, and audiovisual equipment. The program of staff'
development would include 238 local fellowships (120 man-years) and



- 12 -
60 overseas fellowtihips (30 man-years). Fields of study for fellowships would
include applied siAences and educational methods.  Foreign and local specia-
lists (nine and six man-years respectively) would conduct seminars for staff
of groups of technical schools (Annex 9c). The seminars would focus on
applied agricultural sciences, curriculum development, teaching methods, and
management.
29.       Educational planning.  The Government is in the process of preparing
a detailed plan, to be completed by 1987, for development of the system of
agricultural technical schools. The project would assist in this process by
providing short term visits for school administrators, provincial bureau heads
and central government officials to visit similar agricultural institutions
abroad. In addition, specialist services would be provided to help the
Government explore alternative methods of strengthening the system.
Distance Learning and Educational Support Facilities (estimated outlay of $3.3
million excluding contingencies)
30.       Project assistance would contribute to strengthening three central
agencies under the MAAF engaged in production of materials and use of mass
media for purposes of education and popularization of knowledge in agricul-
tural science and technology.
31.       Project support would enable the CABS to expand coverage and improve
the quality of programs by supplementing lectures delivered via radio with
review materials provided on audio cassettes. The cassettes would be produced
in Beijing and distributed locally by mobile vans operating out of county
centers. The full radio course would thus be available to farmers in remote
areas. The project would finance audio production equipment for the Beijing
center. About four man-months of overseas staff training and 15 man-months of
foreign specialists would be provided under the project to improve staff
capability in program production and radio studio engineering.
32.       The project would also assist the AFS to increase its production
capacity by financing construction, equipment and technical assistance for a
new video studio. Equipment provided under the project would enable the
studio to set up three production systems: (a) an indoor system for production
of master tapes; (b) an outdoor system supplied with portable video
equipment; and (c) a duplication system consisting of video recording and
copying equipment. A project-financed program of 10 man-years of local and
overseas fellowships would permit AIS to train 40 people among its present
technical staff of 90 to run the video studio. Additional training would be
provided by equipment manufacturers. Fields covered would be video studio
engineering and video studio production.  About 18 man-months of foreign
specialist services would be provided in these same fields. With the new
video facilities in operation, the AFS would be able Zo produce 580 programs
(96 hours of master tapes) annually, seven times present production capacity
and about 23,000 hours of video cassette copies.
33.       In addition, a modest program of construction, equipment, and tech-
nical assistance would enable the Printing Plant of the MAAY Publishing House
to set up a new printshop specializing in production of teaching materials for



- 13 -
agricultural colleges and secondary schools. The printshop would be equipped
with an offset press, phototypesetting machinery and bookbinding equipment.
Some training would be provided by the equipment manufacturers. In addition,
one month of specialist services would be provided in color printing tech-
niques. Once in operation, the new printshop would increase total printing
capacity by about 20%.
Evaluation, Planning, and Preparation of Future Projects (estimated outlay of
$1.2 million excluding contingencies)
34.       Evaluation.  Evaluation of progress in meeting project objectives
would be carried out under the direction of the Project Office in the MAAF's
Bureau of Education (Annex 10) assisted by: (a) project units at each of the
44 project institutions; (b) a Review Committee composed of selected represen-
tatives from project institutions; (c) the divisions of higher education and
specialized schools within the Bureau of Education, MAAF, and counterpart
units in other ministries participating in the project; and (d) an Interna-
tional Advisory Panel. The Project Office would be responsible for designing
standardized instruments to evaluate the four education components in the
proposed project. Understanding on means to measure progress towards meeting
project objectives was reached at negotiations between the Government and the
Bank Group. To assist in this process, the project would finance local and
foreign specialists (estimated at three man-years and one man-year, respec-
tively), and 13 man-years of overseas fellowships in the field of evalua-
tion. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(i) by using standardized instruments and an agreed set of project indicators
(Annex 11) project progress would be measured annually until 1992; and (ii)
tracer surveys of graduates would be conducted annually until 1992 for
colleges and specialized schools begianing in 1984. Data obtained from tracer
surveys would be used by the Government, inter alia, to monitor the progress
and effectiveness of its new policies zowards its goal of developing a core of
committed agricultural professionals and technicians (para. 10)
35.       Planning.  In the case of the institutional development programs
included in the project - the training and extension support centers and the
technical schools - extending the original model or a aiodified version on a
nationwide scale will require extensive planning at both central and local
levels.  Designated planning units will need to conduct school mapping
exercises; assessments of curriculum, staff development and teaching method-
ologies; and evaluation of cost-effectiveness of new institutions.  To aesac.
the Project Office in coordinating this major planning effort within and
between ministries, the project would finance local and foreign specialists
(estimated at eight and four man-years, respectively), and about 20 foreign
fellowships (13 man-years) and essential equipment. The project would also
provide six man-years of specialist services to help extend the model
developed for the Jiangsu manpower study (para. 2) to one or two additional
provinces.
36.       Preparation of Future Projects.  While Bank Group-assisted projects
have initially focussed on higher education as the first priority, the pro-
posed project includes a first phase program to support development of second-
ary/postsecondary education in agriculture. The project would provide funds



- 14 -
for local and foreign specialist services and foreign visits to prepare future
investment programs in agriculttural education, in particular in such areas as
agricultural technical schools and the training of extension personnel and
agricultural school teachers.
Project Management and Implementation
37.       Responsibility for project implementation would rest with the
MAAF. The Director of the M4AF's Bureau of Education would assume overall
responsibility for directing the project.  He would be aided in this task by
the Project Office established under the Bureau in 1982 to implement the Agri-
cultural Education and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CHA).  This office would
coordinate with and be supported by relevant units within the MAAF, including
the divisions of higher education and technical schools, and by coutnterpart
units in the Ministry of Forestry, Ministry of Water Conservancy and Central
Meteorological Bureau. The Project Office would also use the services of the
China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) of the Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations and Trade. A Review Committee has been formed comprising
representatives of project institutions to provide technical expertise to the
Project Office, review staff development plans, and determine requirements for
specialist services. Attached to the Review Committee would be an Internatio-
nal Advisory Panel appointed by the Project Office to help in selection of
seminar leaders and advise on seminar arrangements, evaluation, and curciculum
development. At the institution level, the Project Office would be assisted
by units set up by each project institution to carry out local planning, bud-
geting and monitoring functions. This has proved an effective working arran-
gement under Cr. 1297-CHA.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that the following would be established and/or maintained
throughout the life of the project: (a) a Review Committee; (b) an Inter-
national Advisory Panel, not later than December 31, 1984, with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank Group; and (c) the Project Office estab-
lished under Cr. 1297-CHA. Assurances were also be obtained that fellowship
candidates would be selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank Group and that those chosen for overseas study would receive language
training as needed at the foreign language training facilities established
under Cr. 1297-CHA; understandings were reached on the selection criteria.
Technical assistance for installation, initial operation and maintenance of
major pieces of equipment would be included as training in equipment con-
tracts. Terms of reference for specialists and draft contracts would be
submitted to the Bank Group for review before contracts are signed.
Status of Project Preparat:ion
38.       The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  Designs are
currently being prepared for most project institutions. Invitations for bids
for phase one equipment would be announced by June 1984. Evaluation of bids
would be completed by September 1984 and awards would be made shortly
thereafter.



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing (Annex 12)
39.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at Y 350.0 mil-
lion or $175.0 million equivalent including contingencies. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at $80.0 million or 46% of total project
cost. Project costs include: (a) construction and renovation of physical
facilities; (b) locally procured and imported equipment and furniture; and
(c) technical aseistance. Total financing required, including the front-end
fee on the Banc loan and the charge on the use of foreign capital, is $202.6
million equivalent. Bank Group financing under the proposed loan and credit
would amount to $68.8 million (39% of total project costs) and cover 100% of
direct foreign exchange costs or 86% of all foreign exchange costs. The Bank
loan would be $45.3 million and the IDA credit would be SDR 22 million ($23.5
million equivalent). The remaining $133.8 million would be financed by both
national and provincial governments. Cost estimateB for civil works, goods
and services are based on May 1984 prices. Construction costs were estimated
on the basis of recently-started construction, analysis of unit prices of
comparable buildings, and existing sketch plans. Furniture and equipment
costs were based on master lists prepared by project institutions, and
reviewed by the Project Office, consultants, and Bank Group staff. Contin-
gency allowances amounting to $30.8 million include: (a) physical contin-
gencies of 5% of base costs, amounting to $7.2 million; and (b) price contin-
gencies ($23.6 million), allowing for an estimated local and foreign price
escalation of 3.5% per annum for the balance of 1984, 8.0% in 1985, 9% in
1986-1988 and 7.5% in 1989. Project-financed goods are exempt from import
duties and taxes.
40.       Recurrent Costs.  Recurrent costs generated by the project would be
about $15 million equivalent a year in 1983 prices. As a result, the share of
higher agricultural education in total recurrent expenditure for higher educa-
tion would increase by 1% (from the present 8% to 9%).LI  This would not be a
significant additional burden on the budgets of the central and provincial
governments.
Procurement
41.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
/1 Since only partial data are available on agricultural education budget
at all levels of education, it was not possible to relate recurrent
cost to total agricultural education expenditure in China. However,
during negotiation, an understanding was reached that the Project
Office would complete collection of data and provide them to the first
supervision mission for this project.



- 16 -
PROCUREMENT PROFILE
($ mi llions )
Total Cost
Procurement Method              Including
Project Element              ICB    LP/a    Other/b   N.A.        Contingencies
1. All civil works except
model buildings             -      64.4      -         -              64.4
- Model buildings           -       5.2      -         -               5.2
-     (1.0)/c   -         _              (1.0)
2. Equipment and teaching      43.7    33.0      7.5        -              84.2
materials                 (43.7)           (7.5)       -             (51.2)
3. Specialists Services          -       -       8.3        -              8.3
-       -      (6.0)      -              (6.0)
4. Fellowships and Training      -       -      12.9        -              12.9
-       -    (10.5)       -             (10.5)
Total                   43.7   102.6    28.7         -             175.0
(43.7)   (1.0)  (24.0)       -             (68.7)
/a  I stands for Local Procedures whiich involve the assignmnrt of one or mDre contracts to a
pre-selected contractor. For civil works, a contractor can be a construction butreau of a
ministry or a construction conpany of a city or provincial governrmnt. For goods,
contractors could be factories or suppliers.
/b  '0ther" includes (i) procurxent of equipmnt under negotiated contracts or on the basis of
evaluation of bids from at least three suppliers; and (ii) procurement of technical
assistance.
/c  This anaunt represents 20% of the estimated total cost of the to model bildings in the
project and is equal to the estimated direct foreiga exchange for the smae facilities.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Group.
All civil works in the project, except the two model buildings, would be pro-
cured through established local procedures. For the two model buildings for
which the Bank Group would provide partial financing, particular attention
would be paid to procurement procedures to ensure improved design standards
and cost effective contract award. Preliminary and detailed designs will be
developed and submitted for Bank Group review by the AAF's design bureau with
the assistance of qualified international architects selected in accordance
with the Guidelines and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank Group. Since the civil works packages of the two tPildings would be
relatively small ($3.3 million and $0.8 million respectively) and cannot be



- 17 -
packaged together, they are unlikely tu attract foreign bidders. Prior to
assignment of these two contracts the Grvernment would reach agreement with
the Bank Group on the form of thie civil works contract and detailed con-
struction procedures. The Bcr.k Group would review with the Government
existing contracts to modify and develop the contract for the model buildings
to provide for modern construction documents, measurable performance standards
for construction planning, cost effective acquisition of materials, payment
arrangements, and construction supervision. The Bank Group would also review
the procedures for selection and appointment of qualified local construction
bureaus or companies to implement the contracts. This involvement will also
give the Bank Group an opportunity to explore with the Government the
practicalit,' of introducing competitive bidding in local civil construction
for educatictnal facilities.
42.        Simple/standard locally produced equipment would be financed by the
Government and procured through local procedures. Advanced equipment bid
packages exceeding $200,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines and
are expected to represent about $43.7 million in total. Local manufacturers
would be permitted to participate and would be extended a 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower. Equipment in
bid packages below $200,000 equivalent and aggregating to a maximum of about
$6.0 million would be procured on the basis of a comparison of quotations
received from at least three suppliers eligible under the guidelines in
accordance with procedures acceptable to t,Ie Bank Group. The $6.0 million
ceiling is based on past experience and a review of equipment lists for the
proposed project. Books in foreign languages and teaching materials estimated
at about $1.5 million would be purchased directly from publishers or
distributors after negotiating for the best discounts. Prior Bank Group
review of contract awards would exclude small contracts ($200,000 or less)
estimated to cover less than 15% of the value of all contracts. Post review
of such small contracts would be performed by supervision missions on a sample
basis. Specialists would be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers".
Disbursement
43.       The proposed loan/credit of $68.8 million equivalent would be
disbursed on the basis of: (a) 20% of the total expenditure for construction
of two model buildings (paras. 21 and 22); (b) 100% of the foreign expendi-
tures of imported equipment or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment procured on the basis of ICB; (c) 75% of the invoiced cost of
imported equipment procured locally; (d) 100% of the expenditures for
specialist services; (e) 100% of expenditures for overseas fellowshij.s; and
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures for books and instructional materials
(Annex 12e). All disbursements will be filly documented except for
expenditures for overseas fellowships which will be submitted under statements
of expenditure. The documentation will be retained in the Project Office and
be available for review by supervision missions. The statements of expendi-
tdre will be certified by the Director of the MAAF's Bureau of Education.



- 18 -
44.       Under the project, a special account would be set up and maintained
in US dollars in the Bank of China for disbursements for small equipment con-
tracts (less than $200,000), specialist services, overseas fellowships, and
books and instructional materials. The initial deposit of the US dollar
equivalent of SDR 1.5 million ($1.6 million) represents the highest estimated
expenditure for any three months of the program. Applications for
replenishment would be submitted quarterly. Opening of the special account
would be a condition of effectiveness.
45.       The completion date would be December 31, 1989 and the closing date
June 30, 1991. The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year
period (Annexes 12f and g) at a faster pace than the regional average for edu-
cation projects. This is feasible because some project items are at an
advanced stage of preparation.
46.       Auditing and Reporting.  Assurances were obtained from t'
Government during negotiations that: project accounts would be maintained
according to accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank
Group; annual audits of project expenditures by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group would be provided within six months of the close
of each Chinese fiscal year; and a project completion report would be
submitted to the Bank Group within six months of the closing date of the
loan/credit. It is expected that the Ministry of Finance will issue audit
reports in accordance with methods and procedures acceptable to the Bank Group
until the State Audit Agency is in a position to issue audit reports meeting
Bank Group-recommended standards.
Benefits and Risks
47.       Benefits.  The proposed project would result in three principal
benefits: (a) improved curricula, teaching materials, and instruction in the
agricultural sciences at both higher and secondary/postsecondary levels; (b)
increased output of well-qualified agricultural professionals and technicians;
and (c) better planning for and management of the overall agricultural educa-
tion system. The major thrust of the project would be to improve the quality
of project institutions through provision of staff training, specialist ser-
vices, and modern laboratory, computer and audiovisual equipment. Institu-
tions would thus be equipped to help supply well-qualified professionals and
technicians needed for China's agricultural modernization program. At full
operation, the project would increase enrolJments at 12 newly-assisted agri-
cultural colleges by about 60% to 32,000, would expand capacity at 12 tech--
nical schools from 5,000 to 9,000 places, and would enable eight training and
extension support centers to train 2,000 management cadres and 7,000 techni-
cians annually.  Qualitatively, project results are expected to have a broad
impact on the overall agricultural education system. Recent and projected
expansion of in-country training activities including project-financed
seminars will facilitate transfer to non-project institutions of innovations
in curricula, teaching programs, and management methods introduced at project
institutions. Further, two of the project components - the extension support
centers and specialized schools - are pilot programs designed to provide
lessons for future planning of the subsector as a whole.



- 19 -
48.       Risks.  Project institutions fall under four major ministries and
represent two educational levels. There is a risk that this complexity may
impede effective project implementation. Particular attention would therefore
be peid to ensuring adequate coordination among all agencies involved. This
task would be the responsibility of the Project Office under the MAAF assisted
by the Review Committee, the International Advisory Panel, and the 44 project
units. A second project uncertainty concerns the organization of the seminars
to be financed under the proposed project. Since the seminars are pivotal to
the transfer of new technologies and teaching methods, it is essential that
adequate time be devoted to systematic recruitment of specialists, design of
topics, and grouping of participating institutions. To provide additional
assistance to the Review Committee and the Project Office, an International
Advisory Panel would be established and maintained throughout the life of the
project.
AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION
49.       Understanding was reached at negotiations between the Government and
the Bank Group on means to measure progress towards meeting project
objectives, especially the qualitative aspects (para. 34).
50.       Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) the project would be monitored and evaluated annually on the basis
of tracer surveys and agreed project indicators, drawn up by the
Project Office and agreed upon between the Government and the Bank
Group (para. 34);
(b) an International Advisory Panel would be established not later than
December 31, 1984 and maintained with terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Bank Group (para. 37);
(c) a Review Committee would be maintained with attached International
Advisory Panel (para. 37);
(d) the Project Office established under Cr. 1297-CHA would be
maintained (para. 37);
(e)  fellowship candidates would be selected in accordance with criteria
satisfdctory to the Bank Group, and that those chosen for overseas
fellowships would receive language training as needed at the foreign
language training facilities established under the Agricultural
Education and Research Project (para. 37);
(f) the Government would submit for Bank Group review audited accounts
within six months of the end of each Chinese fiscal year (para. 46),
and



- 20 -
(g) the Government would prepare and submit to the Bank Group a project
completion report within six months of the closing date of the
loan/credit (para. 46).
51.       Conditions of effectiveness are that:  (a) China's State Council
would approve the Loan and Credit Agreements; and (b) the Borrower would set
up a special account to facilitate disbursements (para. 44).
52.       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for a credit of SDR 22 million ($23.5 million
equivaleait), and a Bank loan of $45.3 million on standard country terms of
20 years including 5 years of grace. The Borrower would be the People's
Republic of China.



- 21 -                            Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Notes on Higher and Secondary Agricultural Institutions
Higher Education
1.        Sixty-six of the 85 higher agricultural institutions are the respon-
siblity of the MAAF, 11 are under the Ministry of Forestry, five under the
Ministry of Water Conservancy, and three under the Central Meteorological
Bureau. About half of these institutions have been designated "key point"
(zhongdian) or, simply, key schools, either national level or provincial.
This designation, which applies throughout the system from primary to
university with different sources of support from district to national, means
that an institution has been chosen to receive special development funding to
strengthen facilities, equipment and staff.
Secondary Education
2.        Plans are underway to shift about half of the students in the
102,000 general secondary schools (putong zhongxuexiao) into either secondary
agricultural and vocational schools (nongzhong ji zhiye zhongxuexiao), or
technical schools (zhongzhuan - literally, "middle specialized").  It is
estimated that inservice training for about 150,000 teachers will be required
to staff these schools adequately. Schools already converted include about
3,000 secondary agricultural and vocational schools enrolling 450,000
students. These schools generally offer three-year junior and two-year senior
secondary programs with 25 - 50% of class time spent on technical subjects;
about 300 of them, enrolling 75,000 students, provide agricultural training.
Technical schools currently number about 3,000 and enroll 1.2 million
students. About 440 of the schools in this category, enrolling, 110,000
students, train agricultural technicians in various fields. An entrance
examination is required for these schools; current admissions policy favors
applicants with a rural background. The technical schools most commonly
provide two three-year programs for senior secondary school graduates; some
also offer three four-year programs for junior secondary graduates. Programs
are highi.y specialized - e.g., forestry engineering, landscaping in the
forestry specialized schools, atmospheric sounding and agricultural meteoro-
logy in the meteorology specialized schools. With the shortage of techni-
cians, graduates readily find employment, for the most part in county level
work units.
3.        Given the tight university admis3ions policy - only 315,000 places
were available for 1.8 million applicants in 1982 - and the difficulty in
finding employment for those without vocational/technical skills, the techni-
cal schools have become an attractive option for recent senior secondary
graduates. According to 1982 figures, there were about 30 times the number of
applicants to Beijing technical schools as there were available places.
Despite these pressures to develop the technical school into a real



-22 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 2
postsecondary institution, the Government's stated long-term goal is to revert
to the model Ln use before the Cultural Revolution when the technical school
was wholly a continuing school for junior secondary graduates. The oppprtu-
nity to explote the postsecondary option under the proposed project will
assist the Government in determining the most effective course of action
relative to future manpower needs.



- 23 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Higher and Secondary Education Institutions -
Numbers and Enrollment
No. of schools        Enrollment
Total    Agri-      Total    Agric.
culture   ----('000)----
Higher Education
Daxue/Xueyuan - colleges and
universities: 4-5 year
undergraduate programs and
master's and doctoral
programs                                      515       72     1,100       100
Dazhuan - specialized colleges:
2-3 year post-secondary programs              200       13        100        6
Secondary Education: (it,cl. agric.)
Zhongzhuan - technical schools:
2-4 year programs for junior
and/or senior secondary graduates           3,000      440     1,070       110
Nongzhong ji zhiye zhongxue
Secondary agricultural and
vocational schools: 2-3 year junior
and senior programs                         3,000      300       450        75
Secondary Education: (non-agric.)
Putong Zhongxuexiao - general
secondary schools: 2-3 year
junior and senior programs                102,000             45,000
Jishu Xuexiao - secondary technical
schools (incl. skilled worker
schools): 2-3 year senior programs            200                600
Shi Fan Zhongxuexiao - secondary teacher
training schools: 2-3 year senior
programs                                    1,000                480
Sources: MOE and MAAF Yearbooks (1980 and 1981).



ANNEX 2a
- 24 -                               Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Academic Staff at Newly Assisted Project Colleges
Overview
1.        The 12 colleges to be newly assisted under this project comprise 7
agricultural colleges, 2 forestry colleges and one each specializing in
fishery, meteorology and bydraulic engineering.  In 1981/82, the colleges had
a total undergraduate enrollment of about 20,000 /1 of which 3,300 (or 16%)
were female. The institutions have a total staff of 6,333 (attached Table).
This gives a low overall staff to student ratio of 1:3.2 (or slightly higher
if postgraduate enrollment is included).
2.        rhe institutions ranked their academic staff in five level's:
professor, associate professor, lecturer, instructor and assistant. Grading
appears to be based, in order of priority, on age, years of ex:.rience and
formal qualifications. Over half the staff (56%) are classifi_. as lecturers,
with low percentages of professors (2%) and instructors (3%). Together
professors and associate professors account for only 13% of total staff.
Age Profile
3.        With respect to age structure, the staff at these institutions is
unbalanced, with staff concentrated in older age groups and too few (or in
some cases no) younger staff in the top categories. Almost half of all staff
are over 45 years of age. This includes all professors, alsost 90% of whom
are over 60. There are no professors and only two associate professors (out
of 686) under 45 years of age. No staff in the three highest levels are under
30.
Educational Level
4.        The education profile of staff, judged by the number of years of
postsecondary education, is generally low. At all levels, over half the staff
have had only four years of postsecondary education, giving an overall per-
centage of 67%. A further 9% of all staff have had less than four years of
postsecondary education. Although 24% of staff have had more than four years
of postsecondary education, only 8% of these have had more than six years.
The low level of education is particularly apparent among professors, where
formal qualifications would be expected to be highest: one third have re-
ceived more than six years of postsecondary education; and about half have had
only four years of postsecondary education.
/1   Excludes students enrolled in different in-service and short-term
courses.



- 25                              ANNEX 2a
Page 2
5.        A matrix showing staff by age group and education level reveals that
only 1.7% of staff 45 years of age or younger have over six years of post-
secondary education. This is important because most postgraduate level fel-
lowships under the project will be awarded to staff in this age group. Prime
candidates for postgraduate fellowships are in this age group and already have
4-6 years of postsecondary education, i.e., about 2,670 staff, or over 40% of
all staff.
Academic Experience
6.        The concentration of staff in the higher age groups translates into
many years of teaching experience for most staff. Almost half (46%) of all
staff have been teaching for 20 years or more. As expected, the high
proportion of professors aged 60 or more makes this a highly experienced
category of staff, with 97% having 20 years or more of teaching. A high
proportion (87%) of associate professors have also had this level of experi-
ence. All professors and most associate professors (99%) have had more than
10 years teaching experience. The younger staff category, assistants, has
only 2% with 20 years of experience and 71% with less than five years.
Sex Composition and Distribution
7.        Of the total staff, about 25% are female.  The rate is much lower in
the highest levels, with only 3% and 12% female professors and associate
professors respectively out of the total. The proportions at lower staff
levels are higher: 29% for both lecturers and instructors, and 22% for
assistants. Female staff are found predominantly in the lecturer category,
which has 65% of all female staff.



- 26 -                             ANNEX 2a
Table 1
Ci'INA
SECOND AGRICULTUTFAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Academic Staff in 12 Colleges by Rank, Age, Education Level,
Source, Teaching Experience and Sex
P       AP       L        I      As /a      Number  Percentage
Age (years)
Below 30           -        -        -       29   1,105         1,134         18
30-45              -        2   1,308       125     637        2,072          33
46-60             19      560   2,187        65        8       2,839          45
60+              133      124       28        3       -           288          4
Subtotal      152      686   3,523      222   1,750         6,333         100
Education level
(years)
Less than 4         2      47      191       28     298           566          9
4                 80      360   2,299       123   1,357        4,219          67
5-6               20      155      748       43      68        1,034          16
6+                50      124      285       28       27          514          8
Subtotal      152      686   3,523      222   1,750         6,333         100
Teaching in the
college from which
they were graduated
Number            24      146   1,096        42     807        2,115
(%)              (16)    (21)    (31)    (19)    (46)             (33)
Teaching experience
(years)
Less than 5        -        4      283      132   1,239         1,658         26
5-10               -        5      379       55     400           839         13
11-20              5       78      796       10      71          960          15
20+              147      599   2,065        25      40        2,876          46
Subtotal      152      686   3,523      222   1,750         6,333         100
Sex (Number)
Male             147      606   2,502       157   1,361        4,773          75
Female             5       8O   1,021        65     389        1,560          25
% Female          (3)    (12)    (29)    (29)    (22)
Total by rank       152     686   3,523       222   1,750         6,333
(%)               (2)    ( 1)    (56)        (3)    (28)        (100)
/a   P = Professor; APl  Associate Professor; L = Lecturer; I = Instructor;
As = Assistant.



- 27-                                        ANNEX  b
CHINA
BMOU   AORTCULTUlA  UVCCATl0  _71WW
TeachSng Staff of 12 Agricultural Technical Schools bY Rank. JAge, Sax.
Years of Postsecondary Education and Teaching Experience
Assoc. Prof.   Lecturer         Instructor       Assistant       Total       Percentage
(2)
A8e
Under 30                                    -              144             130              274            23
30 - 45                     -             108              285              21             414             36
45-60                      23             359               75               1             458             39
Over 60                    16               7                5               -               28             2
Subtotal                      39              474             509              152           1,174           100
Years of Postsecondary
Education
Pewer than 4                8              90              181              39             318             30
4 - 5                      29             346             264               72             711             67
5 - 6                       -              23                4               -               27             2
More than 6                 2               2                1               -                5             1
Subtotal                      39             461              450             111            1.061           100
Years of Teaching
Experience
Fewer than 5                               55              188             118             361             31
5 -10                       2              71             183               10             266             23
11 -20                      2              78              81                6             167             15
21 -30                      4             239               40               -             283             25
Ybre than 30               31              31                8               -               70             6
Subtotal                      39             474              500             134            1.147           100
Sex
Male                       37             362              355             105             859             73
Female                      2             112             154               47             315             27
Subtotal                39             474             509              152           1,174            100
% Female                (5)            (31)            (30)             (31)            (27)
Total by Ranlc             39             474             509              152            1174
(Z)                    (3)             (41)            (43)             (13)           (100)
Note:  Discrepancies in saome subtotals are due to missing data.



ANNEX 3
- 28 -                              Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
The Organization and Functions of the Training
and Extension Support Centers
1.        The Training and Extension Support Centers to be established in this
project would be organized in different ways within the administrative struc-
ture of the eight colleges. In most cases, they will be called centers,
departments or divisions. Management of the units will probably involve an
average of 10 to 20 personnel who will draw upon professional staff from
throughout the college to do the actual training, consultation, advisory and
oLher functions vi6ualized in Lhe sLaLst.ktaL of obj"cLiv= fur Lha CeLkLur. As
much as one tenth of total college professional staff may be involved full- or
part-time in extension-related activities.
2.        The functions of the Centers are to:
(a)  Systematize, improve and increase the number of in-service training
courses for extension technicians and cadres with emphasis on the
county level and above. Training to update and expand knowledge,
particularly of county level personnel, is seen as the main task of
the Centers.
(b)  Operate, under arrangements with the county extension administra-
tion, at least one experimental/demonstration county agro-technical
extension station and establish additional extension bases to learn
first-hand about farmer problems and to provide on-the-spot testing,
analytical, training, consultation, seed and seedling production and
distribution services.
(c)  Undertake sophisticated testing, analytical and diagnostic work,
beyond the capacity of county facilities, in areas such as soils,
forage and identification or diagnosis of pests and diseases.
(d)  Develop an audio-visual facility where the findings of research will
be converted into teaching materials for use by extension techni-
cians and teachers of agriculture in secondary and technical
agricultural schools.
(e)  Establish or do preparatory work for establishment of Departments of
Agricultural and Extension Education in the colleges and, in the
case of some centers actually to offer courses.
(f)  Integrate college research, education and extension activities in
support of the provincial extension sytem and accelerated
agricultural development of the province.
3.        None of these functions is entirely new to any of the colleges.
What is intended through the Project is expansion, qualitative improvement and
better focus and coordination to increase effectiveness and impact, with
particular emphasis on grain production.



- 29-                                ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Most of these functions can be understood from the titles but the
training one particularly merits elaboration. Training is stated to be the
major function and, although not described in detail, some indication of what
is intended is available. In total, some 7,000 persons per year are to
receive training of general or specialized character and of shorter or longer
duration. Of these, about 2,000 would be county level technicians who would
receive four to six months courses and would learn, among other things, use of
the advanced equipment provided under the Project. Short courses of about two
weeks duration would reach more than 5,000, mainly agro-technicians and
farmers, and provide training in specialized farm enterprises or practices -
poultry, wheat growing, etc. Normally these short specialized courses would
be given outside the colleges in the production units, county stations or
extension bases. Two-year courses for 18- to 28-year-old middle school gradu-
ates are planned in cooperation with some county authorities to prepare
trainees to work with farmers as professionals; not less than four months of
training is to consist of practical experience on farms.
5.        One of the newer training initiatives is the preparation of teachers
for agricultural middle schools, secondary technical, general secondary
schools (converted to vocational agricultural schools), and for county
extension stations. At least six of the eight colleges are now offering or
planning to offer agricultural and extension education instruction ranging
from elective courses through a four-year curriculum.



-30-                                     AtNX 4a
Page 1
CRINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Institutions by Affiliation and Location
AffilLation: central/
provincial/municipal        LocatLon
Newly Asnisted Colleses
Beijing Agricultural Mechanization             MAAP            Beijing
College
Dalian '.sheries College                       MAAP            Dalian,
Liaoning
Shihezi _gricultural College                   MAAP            Shihezi,
Xinjiang
Nianjing lFre8try College                       NOV            Nanjing,
Jiangsu
Northeast Forestry College                      UOF            Harbin,
Weilongjiang
Wuhan Hydraulic and Electrical                  MiC            Wuhan,
Engineering College                                            Hubei
Chengdu Meteorology College                     CKB            Chengdu,
Sichuan
Guangxl AgrAcultural College                Provincial         Nanning,
Guangxci
Inner Mengolia Agriculture and              Provincial         Rohhot,
Animal Husbandry College                                       Inner Mongolia
Northeast Agricultural College              Provincial         Harbin,
Heilongjiang
Shandong Agricultural College               Provincial         Talan,
Shandong
Zhejiang Agricultural University            Provincial         Hangzhou,
Zhejiang
Previously Assisted Colleges
Nanjing Agricultural College                   KAAP            Nanjing,
Jtangeu
Central China Agriculturat College             MAAP            Wuhan,
Hubei
South China Agricultural College               MAAF            Guangzhou,
Guangdong
Northwestern Agricultural College              MAAF            Kian,
Shaanxi
Southwestern Agricultural College              NAAP            Chongqing,
Sichuan
Shenyang Agricultural College                  MAAM            Shenyang,
Lisoning
Beijing Forestry College                        MOP            Beijing
Fast China Technical University                 MWC            Nanjing,
of Water Resources                                             Jiangsu
Shanghai Aquatic Products College              NIAAF           Shanghai
Nanjing Meteorological CoLlege                  CMB            Nanjing,
Jiangan
Beijing Agrlcultural University                MAAP            Beijing
Training and EBtension Sup Port Centers
Anhui Agricultural College                  Provincial         Hefei,
Anhui
Henan Agricultural College                  Provincial         Zhengzhou,
Henan
Hunan Agricultural College                  Provincial         Changsha,
Hunan
Jiangsu Agricultural University             Provincial         Yangchow,
Jiangsu
Jiangxi Agricultural University             Provincial         Nanchang,
Jiengxzl
Jilin Agricultural University               Provincial         Changchun,
Jilin



- 31 -                                    ANNEX 4a
Page 2
Affi!.iation: central/
provincial/municipal        Location
Aaricultural Technical Schools
Beijing Agricultural Technical               Beijing           Liangxiang,
School                                   Municipality          Beijing
Changji Agricultural Technical              Provincial         Changjit
School                                                         Xinjiang
Changsha Agricultural Technical             Provincial         Changaha,
School                                                         Hunan
Heilongjiang Animial Husbandry              Provincial         Shuang Cheng,
School                                                         Heilongjiang
Hongxinglong Technical School             Central - MAAF       Jixian,
Heilongjiang
Guangxi Agricultural Mechanization          Provincial         Wuming,
School                                                         Guangxi
Shandong Aquatic School                     Provincial         Yantai,
Shandong
Suzhou Agricultural Technical               Provincial         Suzhou,
School                                                         Jiangsu
Wenjiang Agricultural Technical             Provincial         Wenjiang,
School                                                         Sichuan
Yellow River Water Conservancy            Central - MWC        Kaifeng,
Technical School                                               Henan
Lanzhou Meteorology Technical             Central - CMB        Lanzhou,
School                                                         Gansu
Nanjing Forestry Technical School         Central - MOF        Nanjing,
Jiangsu
Distance Learning and Educational
Support Facilities
Central Agricultural Broadcast                 MAAF            Beijing
School
Central Agricultural Film Studio               MAAF            Beijing
Agricultural Printing Plant                    WAAF            Beijing



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Institutions by Type and Geographical Region
Region
Type of Institution                                 North  Northeast  Southwest  Northwest  East South   Total
I.  Colleges
A.  Agriculture & animal husbandry              3         2          1          2        3      3     14
B.  Fishery                                               1                              1             2
C.  Forestry                                    I         1                             1              3
D.  Water conservancy                                                                    1      1      2
E.  Meteorology                                                      1                   1             2
Subtotal                                   4        4           2          2       7      4      23
II   Training and Extension Support Centers                    2                              3      3
Subtotal                                           2                              3      3       8
III.  Agricultural Technical Schools
A.  Agriculture & animal husbandry               1        2          1          1        2      1      8
B.  fishery                                     1                                                      1
C.  Forestry                                                                             1             1
D. Water conservancy                            1                                                      1
E.  Meteorology                                                                 1                       1
Subtotal                                  3        2           1          2       3      1      12
I!



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Ntumber of Trainees by Type of Course at 12 Newly Assisted Colleges in 1982-83
Two-year
course for   Short-term                          Spare
in-service    courses    Advanced   Corres-    time        TV
cadres      (< 1 year)   study      pondence   univ.   echool   Total
Beijing Institute of Agric.
Mechanization                 145           1,200        35         200         -         -   1,580
Wuhan Institute of Hydraulic
and Electric Engineering       65             350        32         75'9        -         -   1,206
Dalian Fisheries College           -             160)       15           -         -         -     175
Chengdu Meteorological College   50               55         -           -         -         -     158
Nanjing Technological College                                                                                      La
of Forest Products              -             200        35         180        53        30     498
Northeastern Forest College      192           1,000       130         446       183        50   2,001
Zhejiang Agricultural Univ.       30             201        65           -         -         -     296
Northeastern Agric. College      180             650        38          60         -        21     949
Shandong Agric. College          264           1,000       120           -         -         -   .1,384
Guangxi Agric. College           110             520        12         180         -         -     822
Shihezi Agric. College             -             348        12           -         -         -     360
Inner Mongolia College of
Agric. and Animal Husbandry    -              179       100           -         -        44     323
TOTAL                  1,036          5,863        594      1,825        236      198   9,752



CHINA
SECOND AIZICaLTURAL EDUCAT'I  vROJECT
Sumry of Existing and Planned Academic Facilities,  fr.  .ies and Experimental Farms
at Project Neal Assisted  .11.,,
Area of facilities                    Experi-       Nmber of                             Area in sq alstudent for
Academic             Dormitories and dining    mental   boardini students    Total enrollment    Academic    Dora, a din.
Existing  Planned   Total  Existing  Planned   Total   farms   1982         1987/88   1982183   1987788   1983    188  1S83    1988
-  (sq a)                      -   (ha)
Wuhan Hydraulic              78,000    31,000  109,000   41,000   13,500    54,500       -     3,303     4,130     3,417     4,250     23      26  13       13
Shandong Agriculture         48,000     5,000   53,000   16,600    3,400    20,000     150     2,121     3,500     2,121     3,050     23      17    8       6
Northeast Agriculture        44,500    63,500  110.000   16,500    2,000    18,500      80     1,000     3,000       797     2,400     56      46   17/a     6/a
TInner Mongolia Agriculture   51,000    5,000   54,000    8,00   12,600    20,600   1,600      1,822     3,250     1,919     3,350     27      16    5       7
Shihezi Agriculture          21,500    12,500   34,000   15,000    1,600    16,600   1,400     1,170         -     1,055     2,480     20      14  13        -
Guangxi AgricuLture          45,500    15,500   61,000   23,000    1,300    24,300      80     1,679     2,170     1,681     2,200     27      28   14      II
Nanjing Forestry             62,500    17,500   80,000   24,500        -    24,500     360     1,595     2,700     1,639     2,500     38      32   15       9
Northeast Forestry           93,800    20,000  113,800   13,000        -    13,000  32,500     2,095     3,020     2,151     3,300     44      35    6       4
Dalian Fisheries             14,300    18,700   33,000    6,500    1,500     8,000      10       656     1,000       656     1,070     22      31  10        8
Zhejiang Agriculture         75,500         -   75,500   29,000        -     2,174      50     3,000     3,000     2,252     3,250     34      23   13      10
Chengdu Meteorology          35,500    30,500   66,000    8,500    4,500    13,000       _       818     1,000       736     1,020     47      65   10      13
Beijing AS. Mechanization    66,000     7,500   73,500   17,500    7,700    25,200       -     1,056     1,860     1,114     2,100     59      35  17        13
Total                   636,200   226.700  862,800  219.100   98,100   267,200            19,500/b  28,700/b  19,600/b  31,000/b  32       38   11       9
fa Some dormitories are used as teaching facilities at present.
/b Numbers have been rounded to nearest 100.



SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Types of Laboratories/Centers to be E tabliubed or strengthened at Project l_evly Assisted Colleges
College:  Beijing   Dalian                  lanjing  Northeast   Wuhan        Chengdu                   Inner       Eortlr
A&. Iach. Fisheries  Shithei AS. Forestry  Forestry  Hydraulic  Meteorology  Guangxi Ag. Mongolia Ag. e   AS. Shandong Ag. Zhejiang A.
Type of laboratory/centor:    I   S      i       s rS              S         S                       S E  S               B   S           S             S E     S  E  S
Central Laboratories/services
Analysis andm *eurment              I   -      -  -        -  X        -  -                                                                              X -  -  -   -    -      X   -  -  -
Blectrouic icroscopy                -   -      -  -        X  -        - -       -  -          -      _   _        X   -         -   X            x      x    -      -
Audiovisual center                  -  X       X  -                    - S       - X       -                            x        -   x _          x     - X          - X
library                             I-         -  -            -       - x       -  1        -      X-             -             -    - -    I           -     x     -      x
Couputer center                     -  X           -       X  -          x       -   x     - X  -  X  X                          - X   _  _           - X  %
asic Science Laboratories
Biology                             _          -           -           _  _         X                                                - _      _
Cealistry                           -              X       -           -X                  -          -   -        -   x              -       -  -      -    -       -      -
Physics                             -   -      -  X        -   -       - X       -  X            -   -         -        -        -   -        -  -       -    -      -      -
Advsnced Sctience Laborataries
Gensticelplant breed1n                 -                                                                                                     -  X       -    X      -      X
bochemistry                         -   -      -   -       -        -       -      -   -      -   -       -   -         X        -   -        -  X      -    X       -      X
Htcrobology                         -  -       -  -        -   -       --        -  -       -  -      -   -        -   X              X       -  1       -           -      -
Pbysiology                          _  _           _                   _  _          _                     _            X                     _-  X           X             X
Advanced hAroteebAical Laboratories
Agrcultural machinery               X   -      -   -       -  -        - -       -  -      -  -       -   -        -             -   X
Beat conduction                     X            -    -      -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    --                                         -    - _
Rydroeanics                             -        -
Yecbsacs                                X                                    -                                     - -  -  -  -  -                      -    -       -      -
Economic crops                            -  -       -  -        -  -       -        -     -                           -       -_        -    -        -x
Epidemic diseAses                   -              -       -  -         -    -             -  -                           -       -      -    -       -X
u  coetmtion                        X  -       -   -       -  -        -       -        -           -    -      -           -    -       -s_       -     -___
nabins eqtlsnt and etb              -  -       -  xods
Naviation                           -  -       -  X        -  -        - -
Agricultural wter conervancy        -  -       -  _        _  _        _ _       _  _      _
Pmps nd pmp stations                -       -     -    -     -    -   ---                                               -    -      -X
nsteorolosical eic-troulc
tetbnolo-                                       -    -   -          -       -   -        -X -               -                    -      -    -         -    -      -      -
roresry pbysiology                  _  _       _  _        _                                                                                                     - X
roretry ecology                     -  -       -  -        -   -       - X
Ttubor chabstry                     -  -       -  -        -  -        - X
Timber utiization                   -  -       -  -        -  -        - X       -  x                         -                    -      -    -         -    -      -      -
Artificial grasslands                       -    -    -    -    -    -    -                -  -                           -       -      -    -       -X
SxPereenesl Farm                      -  -       -             -          -    --                                                          -    X         -      X
5 - New laboratory to be established; S a existitg laboratoty to be strengthenM.



CHINA
SECOND AGEICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Examples of Seminars for the Agricultural Colleges and Nuaber of Participating Staff from each College
Beijing                                            Wuhan             Guangxi   inner       N.E.
AgpiC    Dalian    -,ehezi   Nanjing    N.E.    Bydro/  Cheugdu   Agric.  Mongolia   Agrlc.  Shandong
Colleges                               Mechan.  Fisheries   agric.  Forestry   Forestry  gnag.   Meteor.  College   Agric.   College   Agrlc.
No. of
Semnars                          seminars                                         Number of Participants from etch Inatitution
Educational ManagesentAEfficiency   3           4         4          4          4          4       4          4        4         4         4         4
Pre. & Use of A-V materials        .3           4         4          4          4          4       4          4        4         4         4         4
Libraty Ninagement                    2         2         2          2          2          2       2          2        2         2         2         2
Farm Mlnagesent/production econ.    2           3         -          3          -         -        -          -        3         3         3         3
Agricultural Economics                2         3         -           3         -         -        -                   3         3         3         3
Wine  q4uaculture                     1         -        10                         -                         -        -         -         -
Agrometeorology                       1         -         -          -                                       10        -         -
integrated Pest Mnagenent             2         4         -          4          -         -        -         -         4         4         4         4
Water and Soil Conservation           1
Dry LAnd Farming                      1
Plant Cenetics                        3
Agric. Teacher Training               2
Animal Husbandry                      2
Othet seninars                       44
Total                          69
w*1



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Exauples of Seminars for the Agricultural Colleges and Number of Participting Staff from each College (Continued)
E.ChIna
Tech
Zheijing            Central   S.China   North                             Univ.                            Beijing    S.W.
Agric.   Nanjing    Agric.   Agric.      West    Shenyang  Beijing    of Water   Shanghai    Nanjing    Agric.   Agric.
Colleges                              College    Agric.   College   College   Agric.    Agric.   Forestry   Resources  Fisheries   Meteor.    UnIv.    College
No. of
Seminars                         seminars                                        Number of ParttCIpants from each In8titutlOn
Educattonal Matagement(Efficieucy   3           4        2           2        2         2         2         2           2          2            2         2           2
Pre. & Use of A-V  aterials          3          4        2           2        2          2        2         2           2          2            2         2           2
Library Management                   2          2        2           2        2          2        2         2           2          2            2         2           2
Para M nasment/production econ.      2          3        3           3        3         3         3         -           -          -            -         3           3
Agricultural Economics               2          3        3           3        3          3        3         -           -          -            -         3           3
Narite MquSult're                    I          -        -           -        -          -        -         -           -         10            --                    -
Agrometerology                       I          _        _           _        _          -        -         -           -          -           to         -
rntegrated Paet Nanageuten           2          4        2           2        2         2         2         -           -          _            _         2           2
Water and Soil Conservation          1
Dry Land Farming                     I
Plant Oenetice                       3
Agric. Teacher Trainig               2
Animal Husbantry                     2
Other seulnars                      44
Total                          69



-3a -                                         ANEX 7a
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROEJCT
Overseas Staff Training Prograrm
Type of
training /a         Sub-       Man-       Cost /b
A    B    C    D      total      years      (us$  rn-)
Newly Assisted Colleges
Beijing Agricultural
Mechanization College                 1   10   14   12         37         40           0.6
Dalian Fisheries College                0    5    7    8         20         17           0.3
Xinjiang-Shihezi Agricultural
College                               1    6    9    4         20         25           0.4
Nanjing Forestry College                1    7    4   20         32         26           0.4
Northeast Forestry College              2   :0    6   20         38         37           0.6
Wuhan Institute of Hydraulic
Engineering                           2    8   12   24         46         40           0.6
Chengdu Meteorological College          1    6    5    8         20         22           0.3
Guangxi Agricultural College            1    8    7    8         24         27           0.5
Inner Mongolia Agricultural
College                               0   11   15   11         37         40           0.6
Northeast Agricultural College          2   10    7   20         39         38           0.6
Shandong Agricultural College           2    8   11    7         28         35           0.5
Zhejiang Agricultural College           0    9   11    8         28         31           0.5
Subtotal                             13.  98  109  150        369        376           5.9
Previously Assisted Colleges
Nanjing Agricultural College            0    1    0    0          1          2          0.03
Central China Agricultural College   1    2    1    4             8          8          0.12
South China Agricultural College        0    2    0    0          2          4          0.06
Northwestern Agricultural College    1    2    0    0             3          7          0.11
Southwestern Agricultural College    1    2    0    0             3          7          0.11
Shenyang Agricultural College           0    3    1    0          4          7          0.11
Beijing Forestry College                0    0    3    0          3          3          C.05
East China Institute of Hydraulic    2    1    0    0             3          8          0.12
Engineering
Shanghai Marine College                 0    1    0    0          1          2          0.03
Naanjing Meteorology College            1    0    0    0          1          3          0.05
Beijing Agricultural College            0    0    5    0          5          5          0.08
Subtotal                             6   14   10    4          34        56          0.90
Training and Extension Support
Henan Agricultural College              0    0    4    8         12        6.0          0.09
Jiangsu Agricultural College            0    0    4    8         12        6.0          0.09
Jiangxi Agricultural College            0    0    4    8         12        6.0          0.09
Hunan Agricultural College              0    0    4    8         12        6.0          0.09
Anhui Agricultural College              0    0    4    8         12        6.0          0.09
Jilin Agricultural College              0    0    2    8         10        4.0          0.06
Central China Agricultural College   0    0    0    4             4        1.0          0.01
Northeast Agricultural College          0    0    0    3          3        1.0          0.01
Subtotal                                       22   55         77        36           0.5
Agricultural Technical Schools
Subtotal for 12 schools               0    0    1   59         60        30           0.4
Distance Learning and Sup:ort Services  0    0    0   13            13          7           0.1
Library and Food Science
Library                                 0    3    6    8         17         14           0.2
Food Science                            0    4    2    2          8         10           0.2
Subtotal                              0    7    8   10         25        24          0.40
Planning and Evaluation                    0    6    8   24         38         26          0.40
Total                                19  125  158  315        616        555           8.4
/a  A - doctoral (3 years); B - masters (2 years); C - advanced training (I year); D - short
term training (3-6 months)
/b Unit cost at $15 ,000/man-year.



-39 -                                ANNEX 7b
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Specialist Services Program
Seminars                    Specialists
Per insti-              Local               Foreign
tution    Total   No.  Man-month    No.  Man-month
Previously assisted and
newly assisted colleges       3         69     207       414       138      276
Library and.Food Science          -         -       -         -         2        40
Extension centers                 2        16      50       100        32        67
Language training                 -         -       20      720         5       160
Technical schools                1-2       20      60       120        40        80
Distance learning and
support services              -         -       10        30         5       34
Evaluation, Planning,
and Preparation               -         -       30       150        25       80
Total                           105      377    1,534       247       737
Total Cost (million)
Foreign specialists           $4.9
Local specialists             Y3.1



- 40 -                                 ANNEX 8
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Model Facilities
Beijing Agricultural University (BAU)
1.        The library would house a collection of about one million irems
(books, journals, periodicals), including projected acquisitions by 1990. The
main net areas of the building would include:
(a) Bookstack Areas (5,300 sq mi);
(b)  Reading Areas (3,400 sq m);
(c)  Specialized Areas (900 sq m); and
(d)  Support Areas and Services (1,200 sq m).
The total gross area of the building is estimated at about 12,000 sq m. This
estimate is intended as a rough planning device for project costing and would
be refined by a team of local and foreign experts during design. Special
features of the library would include:
(e) Computerized cataloging and retrieval system;
(f)  Lecture room for 200 persons, and exhibition area;
(g) Special areas with audiovisual learning aids;
(h)  Facilities for microfilming of books;
(i) Facilities for photocopying of books for student and staff use; and
(j) Book binding and preservation workshop.
These facilities would be supported with the necessary furnishings, equipment,
materials and trained personnel.
2.        Other subcoiponents in the new library component would include:
(a) Provision of foreign technical services for the design of the
building;
(b) Provision of local staff training and overseas fellowships in
library science; and
(c) Establishment of library science training programs at BAU.



- 41 -                                  ANNEX 8
Page 2
Central China Agricultural College (CCAC) Food Science Department
3.        The building would include specialized laboratories and food
processing workshops to support the university's teaching and research
programs. The main aims of the new departm,at in the next five years would be
to:
(a)  Set up full curricula in the human and animal food sciences to
accommodate 30 undergraduate students in each specialty per year;
(b)  Establish research programs for 5-10 postgraduate students in each
specialty;
(c)  Undertake advisory services and technical cooperation with food and
feed production units; and
(d)  Provide short training courses for producers and cadres in food
science and technology.
The total gross area of the building is estimated at about 4,000 sq m. This
estimate would be refined by local and foreign experts during design. These
facilities would be supported with the necessary furnishings, equipment,
materials and trained personnel. Other subcomponents in the new food science
component would include:
(e)  Provision of foreign technical services for the design of the
building.
(f)  Provision of local staff training and overseas fellowships in food
science.



- 42 -                                ANNEX 8
Page 3
Estimated Costs
4.   The estimated base cost of the two components is summarized below:
Estimated costs in million
$ F.E. to be
Total coets            financed by
In Yuan         In $        the Bank Group
A. BAU Library
Civil works and                        6.60           3.30             0.66
Furniture             }
Equipment                              3.00           1.50             1.20
Foreign expert services
(including design consultations)  0.30              0.15             0.15
Overseas fellowships                  0.42            0.21             0.21
Subtotal A                        10.32           5.16              2.22
B. CCAC Food Science
Civil works and       }                1.68           0.84             0.17
Furniture             }
Equipment                              2.00           1.00             0.80
Foreign expert services
(including design consultations)  0.30             0.15              0.15
Overseas fellowships                  0.36            0.15             0.15
Subtotal B                         4.28           2.14              1.27
Total Base Cost for A & B         14.60           7.30              3.49
Model Facilities Task Force
5.        A task force for each component, comprising foreign experts and
their local counterparts would be established to assist in overall planning
and design. The Government would prepare terms of reference for each task
force.



CHINA
PROPOSED SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Fields of Specialization at the 12 Agricultural Technical Schools
Heilong.                                                   Yellow
School                                   jiang    Hongx-                                            River
Beijing  Changji  Changsha  Animal   inglong   Nanjing  Shandotug  Suzhou  Wenjiang  Water         Lanzhou  Nanjing
Specialization               Agric.   Agric.   Agric.    Husbdry  Agric.    Agric.   Aquatic   Agric.  Agric.    Conserv.  Meteor.  Forestry
Agronomy                        X         X        X                   X                               X       X
Horticulture                                                                                           X
Vegetable Crops                 X
Agricultural Economics                    X        X                                                   X
Pomology                        X
Plant Protection                                   X                                                          X
Soil & Agroc - "istry                                                                                         X
Sericulture                                        X
Veterinary Medic.               X         X        X          X        X                                      X
Animal Husbandry                          X                   X        X                                      X
Agricultural Mechanization                                             X          X(3)
Forestry                        X                                                                                                            X
Meteorology (3 specs.)                                                                                                              X(3)
Water Conservancy (4 specs.)                                                                                             R(4)
Fisheries (8 specs.)                               X(1)                                    XC8)
Note: Numbers in brackets indicate the number of subspecializations.



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Existing and Planned Academic Facilities and Dormitories at the 12 Agricultural Technical Schools
Area (in sq 0)/student for:
Area of facilities (sq m)                       Number of          Academic      Dormitories
Academic               Dormitories & dining       boarding students    facilities       & dining
Existing  Planned   Total   Existing  Planned  Total   1982-83    1987-88   1983   1988   1983   1988
Beijing Agricultural                9,920     7,350   17,270   11,900       9,400  71,300      554       1,260      18     14      22     17
Changji Agricultural                5,000     2,900    7,900    4,800       2,800   7,600      279        n.a.      18   n.a.      17   n.a.
Changsha Agricultural              19,960     2,160   22,120   19,000       1,300  20,300       727      1,040      28     21      26     26
Heilongjiang Animal Husbandry    13,920    15,420   29,340   24,600         8,600  33,200       333        840      42/a   35      74     40    >
Hongxinglong Agricultural           4,200    25,330   29,530    9,600    22,000  31,600         343        800      12     37      28     39   >
Guangxi Agricultural                7,800          -        -   17,300           -       -      307        500      25     56       -      -
Shandong Aquatic                   13,300          -        -   10,500      2,800  13,300       480        840      28      -      22     16
Suzhou Agricultural                 9,780     2,340   12,120    9,330       4,800  14,730       345        720      28     17      29     20
Wenjiang Agricultural               9,130      2,780   11,900   10,000      4,400  14,400       439      1,080      21     11      23     13
Yellow River Water Resource        24,630     9,200   33,830   31,600       8,600  40,200       959      1,440      26     23      33     28
Lanzhou Meteorology                 5,300     6,300    1,600   10,700       6,800  17,500       580      1,100       9     11      19     16
Nanjing Forestry                    1,500     8,760   10,260   10,140          180  10,320      180        960       8      11     56     11
la  Some of the high ratios and discrepancies can be explained by the fact that some buildings for some schools are still occupied by
other agencies since the Cultural Revolution and are being returned to the schools gradually.



CHINA
SECOND AGR: JLTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Suggested Seminars f.or Agricultural Technical Schools,
Nutber of Participating Staff from each school
and Number of Specialists.
Heilong.                                                 Yellow
jiang    Eonsx-                                          River
Beijing  Changji  Changsha  Animal   inglong   Nanjing  Shandong  Suzhou Wenjiang  Water    Lanazhan  Nanjing
Agric.  Agric.  Agric.   3usbdry  Agric.   Agric.  Aquatic   Agric. Agric.   Conserv. Meteor. Forestry                            Specialists
School                                                                                                                                  Foreign            Local
Seminar                                                          Number of Participants from each School                                      Total No. Bauouths  No. Maumonths
Farm Management                 3         3         3       3         3         3          -        3        3          -       -        -       24    2       4       3        6
Agric. Ed./Extension methods    3        3          3       3         3         3         -         3        3          -       -        3       27    2       4       3        6          -
Magt of Ag. School programs    2          Z         2       2         2         2          2        2        2          2       2         2      24    2       4       3        6
Prep. & use of A-V materials    2        2          2       2         2         2         2         2        2          2       2        2       24    2       4       3        6
Agronomy                        4        4          4       -         4         -          -        4        4          -       -        -       24    2       4       3        6
Veterinary Medicine             4         4         4       4         4         -         -         4        4          -       -        -       24    2       4       3        6
Animal Husbandry                -        4          -      10         4         -         -         -        4          -       -        -       22    2       4       3        6
Agricultural Economics          -         8         8       -         -         -         -         8        -          -       -        -       24    2       4       3        6
Horticulture                    -        -          -       -         -         -         -        12        -          -       -        6       18    2       4       3        6
Plant ProtectionJPest Mgmt      -        -          8       -         -         -         -         -        8          -       -        -       16   2        4       3        6
Forestry                        6        -          -       -         -         -          -        -        -          -       -        6       12    2       4       3        6
Other specialized seminars      -        -          -       -         -        12        20         -        -         20      20        12      90   10      20      15       30
Other seminars                  -        -          -       -         -         -         -         -        -          -       -        -       90    8      16      12       24
Total                     .24      30         34      24        22        28        24        34       30         24      24       31            40      80      60      120
Total Number o.f Seminars                  -    20
Total number oi Foreign Specialists        -    40
Total Manmonths of Foreign specialists           80
Total number of Local Specialists           -   60
Total Manmonths of Local Specialists       -   120
* Schools with specialized programs (fisheries, Meteorology. Water Resources, Forestry) can organize their own seminars in varions specializations.



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Organlzitbonal Structure
Central                      Ministry of                   Ministry of Mlniistryf
Meteorlogical                     WcrterMnitVo                                                             gclue
Bureau                      Conservancy                    ForesyA al Husbandry
& Fisherles
Bureau of
Scienca  &                    Bureau of                    Bureru of                                     Bureau o
Education                    Education                                            Educaion E
I       .                    l                                -1                                           I
Colleges (2)                 Colleges (2)                  Colleges (3)                  Project Office            Review Cor'ision
Technical                    Technical                     Technical                                                                           C
Schools (1)                  Schools (1)                   Schools (1)               Coordinators for.       I     per1sentative ot             Trol ng& Exgtnsion
1. Equlpment &         I      Project Inslitions           Support Centers (8)
CMI Works            l   |                              Technical Schools (9)
2. StaffDev91lopn-ent           l  ntemnotional           Central Agriculna  
Other Staff            AdrvisorVPnel               Broadcost School
-Accounting                                              AgI Sturctim
- Procurement                                             P  irnting Plant
- Staf.f Developmrent
- SecretoriolI
| Instffutional|
Project Units
Worid Bank-25719



- 47 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Indicators
Base
1983      1985       1989
Enrollment at:
New colleges
Increase enrollment of undergraduates              19,500    24,000    32,000
Increase enrollment of graduates                     500        900      2,300
Extension centers (N=8)                               4,800     5,000      9,000
Agricultural technical schools                        5,000     6,000      9,000
Agricultural broadcasting school                    400,000   500,000   600,000
Improve ratio of undergraduate:
graduate students                                    40:1      27:1       14:1
Increase annual intake of new colleges               5,500      6,900      8,000
Output from:
New colleges
Undergraduates                                     5,000      5,500      7,500
Graduates                                            200        350        800
Extension centers                                     2,000     4,000      7,000
Agricultural Technical Schools                        1,500     2,000      2,500
Agricultural Broadcascing School                          -   100,000   150,000
Agricultural Film Studio (hours of film/video
production)                                            13                   96
Improving Sex Ratio Enrollment: % females
Undergraduates                                           17        21         25
Graduates                                                 6          9        12
College Academic Staff Development
Reducing % of staff with less than 4 years
of higher education                                     8         6          2
Increasing % of academic staff with 5 or more
years of higher education                              24        32         45
Improve ratio of lecturers:  associate professors   24:1            -       10:1
Increasing % of academic staff who would:
be trained locally at other institution                -         10         23
be trained overseas                                    -          4         10
participate in seminars                                -         10         20



- 48 -                               ANNEX 11
Page 2
Base
1983      1986       1989
College Curriculum & Pedagogical Improvement
Increasing % of experiments performed
out of total required by curriculum                     60        70         90
Increasing % of teachers using audiovisual
equipment                                                5        30         70
Increasing subject matter areas for which
audiovisual teaching materials are
available (no.)                                   few (5)         15         30
Add new specialties at graduate level (no.)               -         15         31
Add new specialties at undergraduate level (no.)          -         10         20
College Management lImprovement
Opening hours for libraries/week                          48        60         80
Broadening access to library materials              No open
stacks        few      many
Improving teacher:student ratio                       1:3.2        1:5        1:6
Increasing number of trained
Technicians                                             -        150        300
Administrators                                                    50        100
Improve space standards and utilization by:
Reducing area of academic facilities per
student (sq m)                                    30-35      25-30     18-20
Increasing number of class periods/day                  4          6          8
(number of class periods per clas-aroom
per day)
Increasing utilization of classroom/space (%)          40         50         70



-49-
CHINA                                          ANNEX 12b
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Susnars Account hs Time
Base
Costs t
Price
Cant. on   Total
Base Costs                                      Base     Incl,
(Yuan Million)               Foreign Exchange   Cost5      Cont.
-------------------------------- ---- ------------            (US$      (US$
1984 1985  1986  1987 1988 1989 Total /1   Z       Amount Million)  Million)
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
_ _ _ ____ _ _ _
A, CIVIL WORKS                       -  40,6  33.7 23.0 10,0    - 107,3       11.4      12.2 /2  62.5       65.7
B. FURNITURE                         -   2.1   1,9  1.3  0,5    -   5,7        7,9       0.5 /3   3.4        3.5
C, STANDARD EQUIPKENT                -  22.5  22.6  5.1    -    - 50,2        15.0       7.5 /3  28.3       29.8
%, ADVANCED EQUIPMENT                -  30,3  31.0  7.3    -    - 68.7    100.0        68.7       38.8      40.7
E. AUDIO VISUAL AND LIBRARY
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS           -   9.4   9,4  4.7    -    - 23.6        74.2     17.5       13.5      14,1
F. LOCAL STAFF TRAINING            0.0   0,7   1.1  Oo7  0,7  0.4   3,7        0.0      0.0        2.3       2.4
6, FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS             0.1   3,3   4.9  3,3  3.3  1.5  16.3    100.0       16,3       10.0      10.5
H. SPECIALIST SERVICES               -   2,6   3.9  3,9  1.3  1.3  12.9       71.6      9.3        7.9       8.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                0,1 111.5 108.5 49.3 15,8  3.2 288,4       45.7    131,9      166,7     175.0
Phusical Contingencies             0,0   Z.6   5,4  2,5  0.8  0.2  14.4       45,7      6.6          -         -
Frice Contingencies                0.0   7.9  18.0 13,6  6.2  1.6  47,3       45.2     21.4          -         -
Tntal INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES         0,1 125,0 131.9 65,4 22.8  5t0 350.1       45.7    159.9      166.7     175.0
Foreign E,:change                  0,1  56,2  64.8 27,4  7.5  3.9 159.9        0.0      0.0          -      79.9
Total                                  0.1 111.5 108.3 49,3 15,8  3.2 288,4       45,7    131.9      166,7    175.0
Phvsical Contingencies              0,0   5,6   5.4  2.5  0.8  0.2  14.4       45.7      6,6          -         -
Price Contingencies                 0,0   7,9  18.0 13,6  6,2  1.6  47,3       45.2     21.4
Total PROJECT COSTS /1                 0.1 125,0 131,9 65.4 22,8  5.0 350.1       45.7    159.9      166.7     175.0
Foreign Exchange                    0.1  56,2  64.8 27,4  7.5  3.9 159.9        0.0      0.0          -      79,9
Ha- 16i 1984  1OtlO
/I SOME TOTALS HMAY NOT ADD UP BECAUSE OF ROUNDING
/2 INDIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGE EXCEPT ADOUT Y1,8 MILLON (US$0,9 MILLION)
OF DIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGES FOR SOPHISTICATED' CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
OF FOREIGN ORIGIN
/3 INDIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGE



- 50.-
CHINA                                                        AIK    12.
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUNHARY
(Yuan Million)         (US$ Miillion)                  Z Total
----------   ----------% Fore.ign   Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign TotaIjExchanAe    Costs
At AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES
12 NEWLY ASSISTED COLLEGES                                              78,8    55,8 134.6   39.4    27.9  67,3             41        47
11 PREVIOUSLY ASSISTED COLLEGES                                         45,9    24.7  70,6   22.9    12.4  35.3             35        24
FOOD SCIENCE DEPARTMENT                                                  1,8      2.4   4,3    0.9       1.2   2,1          57         1
LIBRARY                                                                  5,6      4.7  10,3    2.8       2.4   5.2          46         4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                     5.      18.4  23,5    2,6       9.2  11.8          78         8
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES                                           137.3   106,0 243,3   68.7    53.0 121,7             44        84
D. TRAINING AND EXTENSION SUPPORT
8 CENTERS                                                                6,1      8.0  14,1    3,0       4.0   7.0          57         a
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                     0i,3     2,1   2,4    0,2       1,0   1,2          87         1
Sub-Total TRAINING AND EXTENSION SUPPORT                                    6,4    10,1  16,4    3.2        5.0   8.2          61         6
C. TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
12 SCHOOLS                                                               9.2      8.1  17i3    4,6       4.0   8,7          47         6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                     0,6      1,7   2,3    0,3       0.8   1.1          72         1
Sub-Total TECHNICAL SCHOOLS                                                 9,9      9.7  19,6    4,9       4.9   9.8          50         7
D. DIST,,NCE LEARNING AND EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT FACILITIES
3 FACILITIES                                                             2.3      3,4   5,7    1,1       1,7   2,8          60         2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                     0,2      0.7   0,9    0.1       0.4   0,4          82         0
Sub-Total DISTANCE LEARNING AND EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT FACILITIES              2.4      4.1   6,6    1,2       2.1   3,3          63         2
E. EVALUATION , PLANNING AND PREPARATION                                    0,5      2.0   2.5    0,3       1,0   1.2          80         I
Total                                                                        156,5   131.9 288,4   78,       65,.9 144.2          46      100
Phtmical Contingencies                                                     7.8      6.6  14,4    3,9       3,3   7.2          46         5
Price Contingencies                                                       25,9    21,4  47,3   12,9    10,7  23,6             45        16
Total PROJECT COSTS /I                                                       190,2   159,9 350,1   95,1    79.9 175,0             46       121
Front End Fee                                                                -      0.2   0.2       -      0.1   0.1         100         0
Charge ON USE OF FOREIGN CAPITAL                                             o     -----  -55,_0_  -2-7,5   - ---- e27 -.5-  -----    19,1
Total FINANCING REQUIRED
245,2   160,1 405,3  122,6    80,0 202.6           39.6    140,6
Mati 16, 1984 10:13
11 BOME TOTALS MAY NOT ADD UP BECAUSE OF ROUNDING
/2 CONSISTS OF US$68.8 MTLLIGN OF DIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND
US$11.2 MILLION OF INDIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGE



-51-
CHINA                                   ANNEX l2d
BECONI' AGR'ICULTURAL EDlUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(Yuars million)       (US$ Million)                  X Total
-------------------  ------------------- -% Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Totall/Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                     95.0    12.2 107.3   47.5      6,1  53.6          11        37
B. FURNITUlRE                       5.3     0.5   5,7    2.6      0.2   2.9           8        2
C, STANDARD EGUIPMENT              42.7     7.5  50,2   21.4      3.8  25.1          15        17
D. ADVANCED EQUIPMENT                 -    68.7  68.7       -    34.3  34.3         100       24
E, AUDIO VISUAL AND LIBRARY
EGUIPMENT ANit MATERIALS         6.1    17,5  23.6    3.0      8.7  11.8          74        8
F, LOCAL STAFF TRAINING             3.7       -   3,7    1.9        -   1.9           -        1
G. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS                -    16.3  16.3       -     8.1   8.1         100        6
H. SPECIALIST SERVICES              3.7     9,3  12.9    1,8      4.6   6.5          72        4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               156.5  131.9 288.4   78.2    65,9 144.2            46       10O
Physical Contingencies              7.8     6.6  14.4    3.9      3.3   7.2          46        5
Price Contingencies                25.9    21.4  47.3   12.9    10,7  23,6           45        16
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES        190.2   159,9 350.1  95.1    79.9 175,0            46       121
Front End Fee                         -     0.2   0.2       -     OI1  0.1          100        0
Total FINANCING REQUIRED              190.2   160.1 350.3   95.1    80.0 175.1           46       121
Total                                 156.5   131.9 288.4   78.2    65,9 144.2           46       100
Physical Contingencies               7.8     6.6  14.4    3.9      3,3   7.2          46         5
Ppice Continfenciem                 25.9    21.4  47.3   12.9    10.7  23.6           45        16
Total PROJECT COSTS il                190.2  159.9 350.1   95.1    79.? 175.0            46       121
Front End Fee                          -     0.2   0.2       -     0.1   0.1         100         0
Charse ON USE OF FOREIGN CAPITAL   55.0        -55.0   27.5          -27.5           0.0      19.1
Total FINANCING REQUIRED              215.2    160.1_40.3  122.6 __80.0 226            39.6    140.6
Mau 16i 1984 10:14
/1 SOME TOTALS MAY NOT AIID UP BECAUSE OF RWNDING
/2 CONSISTS OF US$68B8 MILLION OF DIRECT FOREI':N EXCHANGE AND
- US$11.2 MILLION OF INDIRECT FOREIG1 EXCHANGE



CHINA
SECD  AGRICILTURAL 0OTI  PRONECT
S_arg kccurgt bi Project Conent
(Yuan Million)
DISIMCE LEfNINO MMI
AGRILtlLL CDLEES                    TRAININ MM EaIION                            EDTU WV  S9     T
SUWORT          TEDmICAL SCH5LS          FACILMTES                              Phsicel
12 Ei   11 it SMIULT                                                                                                EVMUATION,         CI)ntZ19niCS
ASSISTS   ASSIS     FOD SCIwa           TEIUM                 TECMhICL             TI.EUMI                ECiNIM   PLMINS An
CUMEES  COLLEES    DEPRTENT LIBRRY ASSISTANCE  8 CENES ASSISTMCE  12 SCOLS ASSISTAC  3 FACILITIES ASSTAC   PRET TIWI  Tatal /I I   taot
t. IYEzSTNE  COSTS
A. Civil WS                      54.3         13.4         1.5    6.0         -        4.6          -        6.0         -          1.5         -            - 107.3. 5.0    5.4
D. FilNITIME                      2.7          1.7         0.2    0.6         -        0.2          -        0.3                    0.1         -            -   5.7   5,0   0.3
C. SIUM IIDE SIPHII              31.1         13.7         0,4      -         -        2.0          -        3,0         -            -                      -  50,2   5.0    2.5
D. A IWO    ElPiIIENT            41.4         15.1         1.6      -         -        6,0          -        4I6         -            _    -                 -  66,7   5.0    3o4
Et IMIO YISI  ADII  UERMT
EWIPIHNT NIW mTERIALS           5.1          6.7          -    3.0          -        1,3         -         3,4        -          4.2         -            -  23.6   5.0    1.2
Ft LOrA  STAFFTRAININ               -            -           -      -       2.9          -        0.1          -       0.4            -       0.1          0.2   3.7  .5.0    0.2
Go FOREIN FELlOiPS                  -            -         0.3    0.4      13.0          -        1.1          -       0.5            -       0.2          0.8  16.3   5.0    0.8
H. SPECIALIST SERVICES                           -         0.3    0.3       7.6          -        1.2          -       1.4            -       0.6          1.5  12.9   5.0    0.6
Total LWESIEIT COSTS               134.6         70.6         4.3   10.3      23.5       14.1        2.4       17.3       2.3          5.7       0.9          2.5 288.4   5.0   14.4
Physical tmti,iaexes              6.7          3.5         0.2    0.5       1.2        0.7        0.1        0.9       O.1          0.3       0.0          0.1  14.4   0.0    0.0
Price tm1tirtCiK                 20.3         10.9         0.9    1.9        5.8       2.1        0.6        2.6      0O6           0,9       0.2          0,6  47,3   4.8    243
Total INQ.UlDINB CONTINNCIES      161*6         85t0         5*4   12.5      30,5       16.9        341       20.8       3.0          6.8       1.1          3.2 330.1   4.8   16.7
Foreim Excha.ae                  66.3         29.4         3.1    5.8      23.8        9.5        2.7        9.6       2.1          4.1       0.9          2.5 159.9   4.9    7.6
Total                               134.6         70.6         4.3   10.3      23.5       14.1        2.4       17.3       2.3          5.7       0.9          2.5 29.4   5.0   14.4
Phnsical Cantire.ies               6.7          3.5         0.2    0.5       1.2        0.7        0.1        0.9       0.1          0.3       0.0          0.1  14.4   0.0    0.0
Price Continrewies                20.3         10.9         0.9    1.9       5.9        2.1        0.6        2.6       0.6          0.9       0.2          0.6  4713   4.8    2,3
Tetl P ST MM  It                    161.6         85,0         5*4   12,8      30.5       16,9        3.1       20.        l 3,0        6.6      11           3,2 350,1   4.t   1607
Foltiln Ext mff                   6603         27A          3,1    5,8      23,8        ?t5        2.7        ?t6       241          4.1       0#?          2,S  159.9   4.8    7.6
NMw 16 A4 10:12
fS I    IE TIT IrINEAD UP SEM FMN



- 53 -                                 ANNEX 12e
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Financial Plan
Estimated average
Govern-                       Bank Group finan-
Category of expenditure              ment    IDA  Bank   Total  cing (% of total
------ (US$ million) -----    expenditures)
Civil works and furniture
Library and Food Science Dept.        4.2   0.5    0.5    5.2           20
Other project institutions          61.3    -        -    61.3           0
Imported equipment                       -   17.2   31.6   48.8          100
Local equipment                        32.3    -       -    32.3            0
Local specialist service                2.1    -       -     2.1            0
Foreign specialist services              -    2.0    3.7/a  5.7          100
Overseas fellowships                     -    3.8    6.2   10.0          100
Local staff training                    2.1    -       -     2.1            0
Unallocated                             4.3    -      3.2    7.5           38
Total                           106.3  23.5   45.2  175.0            39
Front-end fee on Bank loan               -     -      0.1    0.1         100
Charge on use of foreign capital    27.5    -          -    27.5           0
Total Financing Required        133.8  23.5   45.3  202.6            34
/a Distinguished local specialists would be considered for service when their
qualifications are equal to or above those of foreigners. The aggregate
amount used for such consultants would not exceed 10% of the $5.7 million in
this category.



- 54 -                           ANNEX 12f
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA                      Disbursement                   Regional education
fiscal year       Semester       Cumulative                projects disbursement
& semester               (US$ million) ----        %            profile (%)
1985
1st             0.0             0.0            1                1.4
2nd             0.7             0.7
1986
1st             2.0             2.7           10               6.9
2nd             4.3             7.0
1987
Ist             5.0            12.2           25              17.1
2nd             5.0            17.0
1988
lst            10.0            27.0          60               32.2
2nd            14.0            41.0
1989
Ist            10.0            51.0          90               49.8
2nd            11.0            62.0
1990
1st             3.7            65.7          100              58.5
2nd             3.1            68.8                           66.7
Note: The disbursement schedule is expected to be faster than the regional
average because most of the equipment, which forms the bulk of Associa-
tion financing, will be procured in the first three years of the proj-
ect. The implementation rate of the first and second China education
projects (University Development Project - Loau 2021/Credit 1167-CHA,
and Agricultural Education and Research Project - Credit 1297-CHA)
shows that such a schedule is realistic.



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCAIION PROJECT
ProJect ImplementatIon Schedule
ColendarYear        1984        |       9, 5       |      19,K6              49837      |       98 13      |        8 9       |       990D          1991
hscal Year   FY84          FY85              F86                 FY87              FYN                F Y89     F_        9
-                  ~~~~~~Quarter   I   2   3   4 1'   2   3         1   -2-3    4l  1  2    3   4   11   2   31  4    1   2 -3   4   1  2    3 4                   1  2
(b) Deosins
(b) Construction ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Cr~ltonDt
(c) Ptirnitureporstion ot Tender Docurnent<;   _   _                  _d_
(a) Reviewio Commiss_ _                                                  _on                                                                                                                    v
(f ) Bid Evaluation & Award_ __ _ _                                                                           
(g) Manukue& Detiveiy_________                                                                                          
(h) 6 uaruntee PerCio_ _ _ _ _                                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                         
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                            _ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _                  -                
(b) Fellowships                                  l<e                                        e        5       
Ebtie   Date                                                                             Cornleticon Dole             (lsr  Woe
World Bean-25525



- 56 -
CHINA
SECOND AGRUCULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Report and Studies Related to the Subject
A.1 FAC, Training Requirements for Agricultural and Rural Development in
the People's Republic of China, August, 1982
A.2 IBRD, Basic Economic Report on China, June 1, 1981
A.3 IBRD, Annex C (Agriculture) to Basic !lconomic Report on China,
June 1, 1981
A.4 IBR", Annex G (Education) to Basic Economic Report on China,
J'.Jle 1, 1981
A.5  MAAF, China: Agricultural Yearbook, 1981
B.  Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Project Institutions: Project Plans for individual project
institutions (July, 1983)
C.  Working Papers
C.1 Analysis of Staff of Newly--and Previously--Assisted Colleges
C.2 Analysis of Employment Patterns of Agricultural College Graduates
C.3. Data on Enrollment by Specialization
C.4 Notes on Agricultural Extension System and Planning for Training and
Extension Support Centers
C.5  Notes on Technical Schools
C.6 Project Cost Tables



S  O    V    I  E    T           U        N    I   C      N
/                                                                     @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULAAN8AATAR
0                                                                    M    O    N    G    O    L   I   A
ffi H (XiI Vcl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-,                                               .-. , _ i, 
SIX I N J r A N G
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                               I V Nr/     moG nLh
(-- rr U>                                                                                                                     /                                                    r'
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'- )r  ,y                                                                                              ar -         /     
SItnchuan   )        TeIu
Tnls rmoaD has bcen) prepared by                                                                                                                '   ;  _NGXHA
ttrrf WCICY B3ank'rs statt eactapeelly                                                                                      xtnir q 
to, Ihe cofhle rc e ot the                                                                       01 N G  H A                             X  V nzhd 
readers ar,rd is eackrese ftor the                                                                                                                     _
rIferrlml use ot rThe do8a.k                                            d                                                              G A     S U/
and the 1ttarnation'l Fiance                                                                                                                                                   Zhong-
Co'poral,ori The denomalafarens                                          N                                                                                Sr   .
.sed ,snd tho boundalies shlran                                                                                                 * C                       S .                     H.
on tihs rap do riol ernpfy. on the                                                                                              -               hMAr.\
patl ot The Wortd Bank and tIhe
hIteiaiional t enance Corporaho,.                                                        r                                  t              " v
aryludg-reront  thre tegal status                                                                \                '                                        .          r
of aiy lettrty a' any a, a.
errdorsrenirt en acceptance of f
euch boundes                                            X I7 A N G O U I                                         \HUr
\             g L7asa                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~      ~~~Wenjijn 0(e3hengdu  J
<,         @                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~          ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~S I C H U A N.
._ _ Jr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cho.gqin90 ..t_q
C    H    I N   A                     a         es,                                   wen        - ;      rx;7n: Sk1- t                 Chr
SECOND  AGRICULTURAL                                                                                                     ,                                      UlYJ
EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                                             GUIHO    r
PROJECT  INSTI1 UTIONS  AND  FACtN tTIES:                                    fr                  /   Kunming ,'                     -
[& Newly Awsisred Co1leges                                                                    YUNNAN -N
()     Trinning and  lEtension  Sepport Centers                                                                                           UA   G XI
V      A9r,clt-rrofl Technnc.i Schools                                                                                     p      WemingpV
Dwt,once Leorning / Educatimnl   Sappopi Focilit.es                                          _Nanning
O Prerc-usly  Assested  C olleges -r                                                                   \ 1 _V;._
BU RIMA          S        ,.             q HANZ                r 
(  Promcicol Capitols                                                   U    M     '*..i          r*@IAO
'I  LAO  PEOPLE'S5             2on iitn- e
_   Preninrcro, srinroralinres                                       r..-1DEMOCRATIC.i                                          .
-*-     flier ealiosc  Boundorres                                                   NaREPUBLIC  '. VIE    NAM               (          6
THAILAND  sVIENTIANE_                 I,
.   . .                                                         t//'e'7           ' h   ^'9,'Ax            .~~~~*\.  joe



IBRU 1 7527R
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i0                                                                      la ;O<.PRIL jqOAl
@*_   sa  //            r                    ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Jixiailo
-._4f   t                          v                     11 F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It r f L  N A0;, I A IV Ni
a, ULAANSiAATAR                                   S5                       (@31ri}(
.r                         Shu ingchang         
i         L      I     A,'I                                                                           ,       
(-Afi)Changehun         _i.             
,/            C   a)   t Wt             s~~~~~~~Shenyangi' 
v                       S tw             t ~~~~~ L, I  (.,,vimG              DEMC,CRATIC
_  _  '   ,                             f              .         t    ~~~~~~~~~~PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC 
' I  M O N G 01~   ~     " i;H.hh.t S          N             '        t/         iOF KORE A 
ri  M 0 N 6 01                         A   ~~~~IJhIlNG           _ Da1                                                                       I,?,
>   \   zIgv        )         J <@ tr /                            ,       4 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(SEOUL                      hi  TOK9O,
/   1 ei<inchuen   J  <   <3    Ct~ShiiaBthun                     0        l,      i   .   REPUPBL IC
-, !r NIGXIA                 J SH AN/VXI(           J      Jinan                                                    *
-1  F  t   %              9      t   . ~~~~~H A N D O N Ci ,'
sJ!Lnholl,   =  \)                                         Tailaf    1
A At S U aoS/rii ;^\1x  
D   -      L  _- ~~~Zhenttzho           i1 
>,S H  A A IV X I         H fi E N A N               ) J I A N G- S t t,
SXi'an                                            A Jt    tiYanchow
vhengdu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4Zn  iVSh V .
'Y U A N                       ,s                                  >           _ ,  Z/9gJ  A tV G
Chongqingo k ccagi
_                    ~~~~~~~~Changsha  I ,, A Nr t-  I 
H U N AN htF uhou(F(
,     Guiy3ng       >>        1,                 
inmlnqg ,               A/                                                              T4   '  A IWJAXN
_, fi O  (A   iV  G A I                A  N,x  G   D)   O At G'C
, r Wuming07                        laq,tiuangzhou      ',
J~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                      I li) 4AgHNG KONG,UK,
, 7 Nanning ( ql ,(ittACAO,PORT. ~~~~~~~~~KiLOMETERS  0Q 0 0 11t10
Mlc.               2G'0             4tt
*-  G HANgl                 i
PLE'S  n        2Danxim-   't
ZATiC                   
IC <VEt NAM    ' 
_.x~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H I -                                       I PHl P IPNE S
. 'Xt66 l,t0



