Document of
The World Bank 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3829-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$45.3 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 22.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
May 23, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1983   February 1984
$1.00                   Y 1.98             Y 2.06
Y 1        =             $0.51             Y 0.49
The staff appraisal report is based on the rate
of $1.00 = Y 2.00 prevailing at appraisal.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS USED
AFS    -  Agricultural Film Studio
CABS   -  Central Agricultural Broadcasting School
CNTIC  -  China National Technical Import Corporation
MAAF   -  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
F4 sheries



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Amount:           $68.8 million equivalent comprising $45.3 million equivalent
IBRD (including capitalized front-end fee) and SDR 22.0 mil-
lion ($23.5 million equivalent) IDA.
Terms:            Loan:    20 years including 5 years of grace; standard
variable interest rate.
Credit:  Standard
Project
Description: The project constitutes the second phase of the
Government's long-term strategy to improve the quality and
supply of high- and middle-level agricultural manpower. The
project would provide funds for civil works, furniture,
equipment, technical assistance and fellowships to: (a)
improve and expand preservice and inservice training at 23
key agricultural colleges; (b) establish 8 training and
extension support centers to train staff for extension work;
(c) assist the Government in defining a development strategy
for secondary/postsecondary agricultural education by intro-
ducing a pilot program to strengthen 12 agricultural techni-
cal schools; and (d) improve the quality and increase the
supply of instructional materials by assisting three central
distance learning and educational support facilities. The
main benefit of the project would be to promote agricultural
development, by increasing the provision of well-trained
agricultural professionals and technicians, and by assisting
the Government in tailoring educational development policy to
future manpower needs. Risks are that the complexity of
project design may impede effective implementation and that
seminars to transfer new technologies and teaching methods
may not be efficiently organized. Organizational arrange-
ments, which include establishment of coordinating and
advisory panels, would reduce these risks.
This document has arestricted distribution and may be used byrecipients only in the performance of
their ofYicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign   Total /a
…-…$ million -------
A.  Agricultural Colleges                           68.7       53.0      121.7
12 Newly Assisted Colleges                   39.4       27.9       67.3
11 Previously Assisted Colleges              22.9       12.4       35.3
Food Science Department                     0.9        1.2        2.1
Library                                     2.8        2.4        5.2
Technical Assistance                        2.6        9.2       11.8
B.  Training and Extension Support                   3.2        5.0        8.2
8 Centers                                     3.0        4.0        7.0
Technical Assistance                        0.2        1.0        1.2
C.  Agric. Sec. Specialized Schools                  4.9        4.9        9.8
12 Schools                                    4.6        4.0        8.7
Technical Assistance                        0.3        0.8        1.1
D.  Distance Learning & Support Facilities           1.2        2.1        3.1
3 Facilities                                  1.1        1.7        2.6
Technical Assistance                        0.1        0.4        0.4
E. Evaluation, Planning & Preparation
of Future Projects                            0.3        1.0        1.2
Base Cost                                78.2       65.9      144.2
Physical Contingencies                          3.9         3.3        7.2
Price Contingencies                            12.9       10.7       23.6
Total Project Costs /b                   95.0       79.9 _c  175.0
Front-end fee on Bank loan                 -         0.1        0.1
Charge on Use of Foreign Ca-pital        27.5         -        27.5
Total Financing Required                122.6       80.0      202.6
Financing Plan:                                        Local    Foreign    Total
$ million-
IBRD                                                            45.3       45.3
IDA                                                             23.5       23.5
Government                                          126.6       11.2      133.8
Total                                               122.6       80.0      202.6
a!   Figures may not add exactly due to rounding.
b/   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
c/  _'onsists of $68.7 million of direct foreign exchange and $11.2 million of
indirect foreign exchange.



- Mi -
Estimated            IDA FY           1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Di sburse,t,ents                   ----------------$ million ------------------
Annual           0.7      6.3    10.0    24.0    21.0         6.8
Cumulative       0.7      7.0    17.0    41.0    62.0    68.8
Rate of Return:    N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4871-CHA, dated Mav 21, 1984.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Second
Agricultural Education Project. The loan for $45.3 million (including a
front-end fee of 0.1 million) would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace with standard variable interest rate. The credit, for an amount of
SDR 22.0 million ($23.5 million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China: Socialist Economic
Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China: Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Another economic mission which has
just returned from China is now preparing a report on long-term development
issues and options. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp
oscillations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average or other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health the Chinese
population is better off than its counterparts in other low-income developing
countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population with
unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient: past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.



To address t:hese problem-Ls and ensura rati(i growth and improvements
irn living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and acjust-
ment in 1979.  Economic reformL, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves:  (a) imTiproving the quality of central plarning and
policy coordination; (b) devolving more decis-ion-making authority to lower
level units; (c) estabilishing more direct links between incomes and the
performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on market
mechanisms and economic instruments and less on admi-nistrative directives to
inf'luence economic activity,  Structural adjustment, aimed at speeding
improvements in living standards, [ias involved readjusting the relative shares
of consumption and investment in national incmcme, some major sectoral and
subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade.  In 1981,
problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account deficits
resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the highest
priority,, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly with
adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government clown to rural households. A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning ComLissiorn and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52.  Reorganization with 4n ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way. Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given. more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage cdirectly in foreign trade,
7/        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly withl output. By the end of 1982, 92% of
production teams in China had implemaented such a system; 78% had implemented a
household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of farm land and
major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted out to
individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond their
obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for abou-t one
third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic cnanges have occurred0  Reforms in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices.  There have also
been experimiental changes in the organization of- state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production



-3-
decisions.  The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have already
had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take Longer to have a
significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic reform
that the Government will need to address. I:n rural areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a sl-rategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices:
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%).  Net material product (NTiP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982, The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
.2.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas the real
increase in per capita incomes was about 12% p.a. While more prosperous areas
and households may have benefitted the most and income differentials at a
local level may have increased, many poor areas and households have also
enjoyed substantial income improvements.



- 14 _
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a cutback has proved difficult.
D,ecentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth in
investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a result,
most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally financed
projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and transportation were
affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in 1981
and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by sharp
cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from aboult 7% of total expenditures in 1978 to
26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent years;
the current account deficit of $3.4 billion in 1980 was converted into a $5.6
billion surplus in 1982 and an estimated $4.6 billion surplus in 1983, an
improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of merchandise
exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of rapid growth in manufactured exports. The growth rate has
been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of imports declined in
both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancellations
and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment deliveries and to problems in
obtaining high technology goods. A substantiial increase in imports is, how-
ever, expected in 1984 and 1985 as China, expands its investment program and
imports more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1982 took advantage
of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay commercial bank
and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, and in 1982
10.0%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had
increased to over $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports), and by the end of 1983 they were neatrly $15 billion.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the potential for
improving efficiency through econoraic reform. Rapid and equitable economic
development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are serious
shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities and tech-
nical and vocational schools is one quart:er of the average rate for other
developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the culti-



vated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high, the
growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a. during
the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial growth,
and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial sectors.
Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time when
competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981
December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment, reform,
consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan period is
essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation will be
laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans. Modest
targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross agri-
cultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to grow
faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
-eficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will continue during the next few years.
Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of
organization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units)
encouraged, and the administrative functions of communes separated from their
economic functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will fully replace
profit remittance as the primary means of raising government revenue, indus-
trial administration will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises
will be closed down. The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative
and individual commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In
investment planning, the Government is striving for more effective imple-
mentation of existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure
and efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent
very much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce
formal economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment
decisions and to make producing units were economically and financially
responsible for their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive
schemes are especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being
crucial, but in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes
required, the Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive
price reform until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward
_djustments in some of the most distorted prices are being made, and the
prices of many minor commodities are being aLlowed to fluctuate according to
market conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. Foreign capital requirements for energy development



- 6 -
will be particularly heavy. By the late 1980s, some imports of oil are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current accotnt surpluses thus are expected to
change to moderate deficits over the next several years. But the overall rate
of import expansion, the size of the current account deficit, and the
magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements cre very sensitive to assumptions
about economic trends and the effectiveness of government programs.  For
example, an acceleration of economic growth writhout significant improvements
in efficiency, especially energy efficiency, could result in large current
account deficits by the end of the 1980s. In fact, a relatively high rate of
economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the rest of the 1980s (which is the growth
rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will probably be feasible only if
major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
2L.       China has a strong claim to concessionary lending because it is
still one of the poorer countries in the world. However, access to conces-
sionary capital to finance its development and modernization program is
limited:  apart from Bank Group ftnds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s.
22.       For China, as for many other cleveloping countries, the 1980s will be
a difficult decade.  But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable.  By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced.  Further progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficienatly. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less con-
cerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the effi-
ciency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing substantial
increases in the living standards of its peopLe. Whether this potential can
be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of the Government's
program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAT'IONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives.  Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consider-
able development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation.  Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development: shortages of
energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.
Even more important, the Balk shou:Ld help the authorities to use these and
other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economiic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining



-7-
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs
of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on the poorest: rural
areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 15 projects involving lending of about $1,568 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development, Agricultural
Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), three in energy (Daqing
Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development, Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum and Lubuge
Hydroelectric), four in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation, Rubber Development and Rural Credit), two in transport (Three
Ports and Railways), one in industry (Industrial Credit), one in health (Rural
Health and Medical Education) and one in technical cooperation (Technical
Cooperation Credit). Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and
credits as of March 31, 1984.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy.  This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductcry
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum (Report
No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the next two years was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the Bank has
undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding of the
Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and management in
Shanghai. An economic mission which visited China in February and April 1984
will prepare a report on long-term development issues and options.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning.  In the context of
the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual was developed with Bank
assistance by the China Investment Bank, a then newly established financial
intermediary. The Bank is also helping the Agricultural Bank of China to
develop a similar manual in connection with the Rural Credit Project. A
program of economic research on China's development problems, aimed at the
application of advanced analytical techniques, is underway in collaboration
with Chinese economic research institutions in the areas of enterprise
incentives and analysis of structural change.
27.       Sector studies will help, inter alia, to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Agriculture Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agri-
cultural manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research
Project. A rural finance study provided the background for the Rural Credit
Project. A report entitled "The Health Sector in China" (No. 4664-CHA, dated
April 13, 1984) reviews rural health care delivery systems and health manpower
,Ipvelopment.



-8-
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work is proceeding on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on t:echn:iical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first three, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies. Other operations are likely to
continue support for electric power and involve development and management of
large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In transportation, work is
proceeding on a second railway project and a second ports project to provide
additional capacity.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support for education through the
proposed project and another university development project. Support for
agriculture would continue through projects to provide further assistance in
agricultural research and to assist the Government in forestry and seeds. In
industry, further loans will be made to the China Investment Bank, and there
will be projects for technical renovation and modernization in industries such
as fertilizers and machine tools.  Bank assistance is also planned for a rural
water supply project.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
Overview
30e       To supply the food needs of a population now over a billion and raw
materials for an expanding industrial sector, Chiina must increase agricultural
output.  The potential for increase is limited by a number of factors, inclu-
ding the scarcity of arable land, major problems of soil and water conserva-
tion, and the difficulty of raising food grain yields beyond already high
levels. To boost production, the Government since 1979 has initiated new
development strategies to modernize agriculture and decentralize production
planning and management to the production team and farm household levels. The
long-term success of these strategies depends on the availability of well-
trained professional and middle-level manpower. Providing this manpower is
the task of the agricultural education system.
31.       Agricultural Manpower Requirements.  Recent projections indicate
shortages of appropriately-trained personnel at both professional and techni-
cian levels. Colleges are currently striving tc overcome such shortages, but
efforts are constrained by limited enrollment capacity and inadequate quality
of instruction and range of curricula. Based on present enrollments of post-
graduates in the agricultural sciences totalling about 1,200, the Government
estimates that requirements for personnel with advanced degrees between 1983-
90 will exceed availability by more than 15,000.  At the college graduate and
technician levels, shortages are most: acute in specialized fields such as
forestry and meteorology where the present flow of around 5-6,000 graduates
per year can satisfy only half of the annuavl requirement over the decade.
Overall, it is estimated that there are currently only about four agricultural



- 9 -
technicians per 10,000 agricultural workers in rural areas. As critical as
the need to add new personnel to the labor force is the need to upgrade the
qualifications of already-employed professionals and technicians. According
to Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries (MAAF)/FAO data,
of 140,000 technical personnel employed in the MAAF-administered general
extension network, 80,000 are in need of upgrading as are another 150,000
staffing the animal husbandry and veterinary science stations.
Principal Features and Issues in Agricultural Education
32.       Higher Education. There are 85 institutions of higher education in
agriculture and related fields with a total student enrollment in 1981/82 of
about 100,000 including 1% at the postgraduate level. This represents only 8%
of the total 1.2 million students enrolled in China's 715 higher education
institutions. Seventy-two of the 85 agricultural institutions are classified
as four-year colleges and universities, and the remaining 13 are two to three-
year specialized colleges. In addition to these preservice programs, colleges
and universities are currently providing various forms of inservice training
-- e.g. sparetime, evening, and correspondence courses. As in other fields,
students are admitted to the agricultural colleges on the basis of their
scores on a uniform national entrance examination. In 1982 only 17% or
315,000 of the total number of applicants in all fields gained admission.
33.       Though efforts are now under way to assist selected institutions,
agricultural colleges as a whole are hampered in their efforts to respond to
the national need for well-qualified teachers, administrators, researchers,
and extension personnel by: (a) poorly qualified staff: on the average, less
than 25% of the teaching staff at the agricultural colleges have had any post-
graduate education and only 8% have had two years or more; (b) inadequate
equipment: presently available teaching equipment allows for conducting only
around 60% of the required laboratory exercises and, at the postgraduate and
research level, equipment is both in short supply and often obsolete; (c) lack
of space and/or substandard facilities: buildings generally are poorly de-
signed, constructed and maintained and inefficiently used; (d) weaknesses in
curricula: study programs are narrowly technical, and often outdated; and
(e) inefficient organization and management of resources: management
weaknesses are evident in areas such as staff and space utilization and
operation of library facilities.
34.       Training and Extension Support Centers.  The MAAk  administers a vast
extension network headed by a general extension bureau in Beijing and encom-
passing a hierarchy of agencies/units reaching downward to the provincial,
county, commune, brigade and production team levels. Though China's past
agricultural successes must be attributed in large part to the effective
working of this system, the Government in recent years has instituted a major
program to further upgrade extension facilities and personnel with a special
focus on building county-operated agro-technical stations. In an effort to
mobilize college resources in support of this program, the Government has
decided to establish on an experimental basis eight college-based training and
extension support centers in eight grain producing provinces. The primary
function of the support centers is to provide inservice training to about
2,000 management cadres attached to commune, county and provincial agricul-



- 10 -
tural bureaus and to 7,000 senior technicians assigned to MAAF county agro-
technical stations
35.       The colleges are limited in their capacity to contribute to a major
national program to strengthen the MAAF-administered extension service by:
(a) lack of a centralized unit for coordinating extension support activities
presently carried out by various departme!nts; (b) insufficient equipment to
effectively train extension workers and respond to community needs for
consulting services; and (c) lack of staff experienced in extension education
methods.
36.       Secondary Education.  In line with current policy which calls for
moving away from the single track system of general education in vogue during
the Cultural Revolution and re-emphasizing academic and vocational tracking,
plans are underway to shift about half of the students in general secondary
schools into either secondary agricultural and vocational schools or technical
schools. Progress has been slow: according to recent figures, of more than
6.5 million senior secondary level students, about 96% are still enrolled in
general education institutions. Schools already converted include about 3,000
technical schools enrolling 1.1 million students. Most of these schools at
present provide two to three year programs for senior secondary graduates;
some also offer two to four years of training for junior secondary graduates.
About 440 of these schools, with enrollments at 110,000, provide agricultural
technical training.  Programb are highly specialized but the schools have not
been accorded higher or postsecondary standing and, in fact, the Government's
stated long-term goal is to revert teo the model in use before the Cultural
Revolution when the technical schoo:L was wholly a continuing school for junior
secondary graduates.
37.       The system of agricultural technical schools is limited in its
effectiveness by: (a) lack of a coherent program of institutional develop-
ment: the Government has not yet determined a set of guidelines for the
future development of the technical schools; (b) inadequate equipment and
facilities: equipment and facilities are often lacking or substandard;
(c) curriculum weakness: there is too much emphasis on the teaching of basic
sciences and consequent neglect of applied skills appropriate to technicians'
jobs; and (d) inappropriately trained teaching and administrative staff.
38.       Distance Learning and Educational Support Facilities.  Under the
MAAF are three agencies with special responsibilities for providing distance
learning and producing educational materials for use in agricultural colleges
and secondary schools:
(a) Central Agricultural Broadcasting School (CABS): The CABS was
established in September 1980 to prov:ide secondary school
equivalency programs via radio to farmers, cadres, and technical
workers in outlying areas. Of an estimated 430,000 regular
listeners, about 130,000 took final examinations in 1982. Growth of
CABS operations is limited by: (i) poorly qualified staff: there are
no staff members trained in program production so that CABS must
rely exclusively oii the Ministry of Broadcasting for both production
and transmission; qnd (ii) inadequate alternative means of program
delivery.



- 11 -
(b)  Agricultural Film Studio (AFS):  The Beijing AFS with its staff of
around 90 technical personnel produces 16mm and 35mm educational
films for use in agricultural secondary schools, technical schools
and colleges and universities throughout the country. Technical
weaknesses limit AFS production capacity: Operating with outmoded
16 mm film technology rather than the more efficient video tech-
nology, the Studio can produce only 80 films or 13 hours of viewing
annually, far below the estimated 1,100 hours of master tapes needed
to adequately supply the country's agricultural institutions. The
Studio also lacks staff trained in new video techniques.
(c) Printing Plant: The Printing Plant of the MAAF's Publishing House
is responsible for producing books, journals and other teaching
materials for the agricultural colleges and schools. Lack of equip-
ment makes it impossible for the Plant to respond adequately to
growing demands for printing such materials.
Government Strategy and Bank Group Role
39.       To alleviate shortages of well-qualified technical, research and
teaching personnel in agriculture, the Government has decided to: (a) estab-
lish a system of key agricultural colleges: high quality teaching/research
institutions capable of playing a leading role in all aspects of agricultural
modernization; (b) expand the role of both key and non-key colleges in provi-
ding staff training and technical support services for the agricultural
extension system; (c) restructure the secondary school system with a view to
increasing the number of schools offering vocational and technical education
in agriculture; and (d) expand distance learning opportunities in agriculture.
In implementing this strategy, the Government faces problems of recruiting
agricultural students from rural areas and retaining them there after train-
ing: of 860,000 agricultural technicians trained nationwide since the early
1950's, 500,000 have left the countryside for jobs in urban centers. Through
new policies - a special quota system on admissions of rural students to agri-
cultural colleges and secondary schools and salary incentives to encourage
graduates to return to the countryside to work - the Government hopes to
develop a core of committed agricultural professionals and technicians.
40.       Bank Group support for the Government's program of expanding and
improving agricultural education is part of a larger Bank Group effort to help
China meet critical requirements for high :Level manpower in various science
and technical fields. Strengthening higher education has been the thrust of
three education projects now under way in China: University Development I
(Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA), Agricultural Education and Research (Cr. 1297-CHA),
and Polytechnic/TVU (Cr. 1411). Important sectoral objectives pursued through
these projects include achieving quality teaching with emphasis on the
undergraduate level; updating, revising and expanding curricula; improving
management methods and institutional efficiency; transferring knowledge and
advanced technology through equipment purchases, fellowships and specialist
services; and contributing to the Government's efforts to make more efficient
use of capital investments in civil works. An additional important feature of
the Agricultural Education and Research Project is the inclusion of two



- 1.2 -
studies: a manpower study in Jiangsu, now weall underway, has effectively
demonstrated the potential uses of manpower analysis for educational planning;
and a national research study, being carried out ahead of schedule, is
designed to clarify the Government's researchi policies, plans and
strategies.' The Bank Group is continuing to make a significant contribution
to improve project design through advice on hiow to make curricula more rele-
vant to present and anticipated needs, how to) ensure that equipment acquisi-
tions are appropriate to teaching objectives, and how to plan and direct
future investments. Given the present low level of university enrollment
(para. 32), higher education and the aforemeniti-oned set of objectives will
remain a focus of Bank assistance efforts. At the same time, in view of
projected demands for preservice training of middle level personnel and for
inservice training at both middle and higher levels (para. 31), the Bank also
supports extending assistance activities to secondary and nonformal education
and to various kinds of inservice training including, in agriculture, educa-
tion programs for extension personinel. Some of these activities will take the
form of pilot programs designed to create model institutions that might be
replicated throughout the education system and to contribute to the Govern-
ment's efforts to de-velop an integrated policy for strengthening the subsector
as a whole.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.        The proposed project was prepaLred by the MAAF and was appra.ised in
July 1963. NegotiAtions were held in Watshington, D.C. from April 30 to May 7,
1984. with a Chinese delegation headed by Mr. Ge Fucun, Director, External
Finance Department, Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4871-
CIiA) is being circulated separately. Supplementary project data are provided
in A-nnex III.
Project Objectives a-nd Scope
42.        To help thie Government expand anid upgrade professional and middle-
level agricultural manpower, the project wouldt provide funds for civil works,
equipment, and technical assistance to: (a) expand and improve preservice
education and inservice training at 23 key agr-icultural colleges; (b) expand
the community services role of the agricultural colleges by establishing eight
training and extensioDn support centers fuinctioning within the college
teaching/research framework Lo train staff and. provide technical services for
the MAAF's extension system; (c) assist the Government in defining a develop-
ment strategy for serondary/postsecondary agricultural education by intro-
ducing a pilot program to strengthen 12 technical schools; (d) broaden non-
formal training opportunities and increase the supply of instructional
materials by assisting a radio broadcast school, a film/video production
ceniter, and a printshop; and (e) suipport evaluation, planning and preparation
of future projects.



- 13 -
Project Components
Agricultural Colleges (estimated outlay of $121.7 million excluding
contingencies)
43.       The project would provide assistance to develop 23 key agricultural
colleges into "centers of excellence" capable of producing a core of high qua-
lity professionals essential to China's agricultural modernization program.
Strengthening of higher education and research programs at the 23 project
institutions would be expected to have an impact on non-selected agricultural
colleges, on the research network, and on agricultural secondary institutions
through an expanded in-country training role assumed by the 23 as a cost-
effective substitute for overseas training. In this fashion, for example,
curriculum changes instituted at the project colleges would be transferred
over time to non-project institutions. In addition to strengthening training
programs for professionals, the project would help colleges improve technician
level inservice training activities. Twelve of the 23 colleges have been
newly selected for inclusion in this second phase program; they comprise seven
n-tional and five provincial colleges representing a range of major disci-
plines and a variety of agricultural/geographical zones including three of
China's border regions. Eleven of the 23 are already receiving Bank Group
assistance, one under Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA and ten under Cr. 1297-CRA
(para. 48).
Newly Assisted Colleges
44.       The project would support 12 agricultural colleges in a broad
program of increasing enrollment, improving the quality of instruction,
introducing new specializations, and improving management.
45.       Enrollment Increases.  At the 12 newly-assisted colleges, there are
currently 19,500 students in regular degree programs and 10,300 in. diploma and
other short-term courses. By the end of the project, enrollment is expected
to increase by 60% to 32,000 students in the case of degree programs and re-
main at current levels for non-degree programs which will be phased out grad-
ually to make way for further expansion of undergraduate places. Increased
enrollment and output would be achieved primarily by provision of new facili-
ties, including laboratories and classrooms, as well as some rehabilitation of
outmoded or damaged facilities.
46.       Improvements in Instruction and Curricula.  Quality improvements
would be achieved through a combination of improved facilities, acquisition of
modern teaching and research equipment, and technical assistance. The project
would finance basic and standard laboratory equipment to be used in teaching
undergraduate science courses as well as selected pieces of advanced and
specialized equipment which would enable the colleges to raise standards of
postgraduate training and research. Equipment acquired under the project
would permit an increase in the percentage of required experiments actually
conducted from 60% to 90%, enable institutions to respond to community demands
for special courses, and help meet research and post-graduate studies
development needs. In addition to science equipment, each college would
acquire modest audiovisual equipment and instructional materials to supplement



- 14 -
and enrich standard textbooks. A technical assistance program including local
training, foreign fellowships, and specialist services, would help strengthen
the professional qualifications ofi the teaching staff at the 12 agricultural
colleges. The proposed project would provide 1,200 in-country fellowships
(1,250 man-years) and 369 overseas fellowships (376 man-years) to strengthen
staff capability in the agricultural sci'ences and education. The language
centers established under Cr. 1297-CHA would be extended under the proposed
project through provision of 13 man-years of specialists in language train-
ing. The project would also finance 30 man-years of local and foreign specia-
lists (180 persons) to conduct 36 seminars/workshops focussing on new techno-
logies, teaching methodology, and curriculum development. About 1,000 persons
(15% of the staff) would receive seminar training.
47.       Management Improvement.  The proposed project would also address
college management problems (para. 33) through provision of short-term local
and foreign fellowships and specialist services. Staff development plans
drawn up by each project college call for sending senior college administra-
tors for short-term management training within China or to observe management
of similar institutions abroad. Two man-years of specialist services would be
used in conducting management seminars in China for groups of colleges.  The
focus of this training would be such topics as methods of class scheduling to
optimize use of space and equipment, computerization of financial and academic
records, operation of library computer, and audiovisual facilities, and plan-
ning, design, and maintenance of civil works. Three colleges would be selected
for a pilot program to introduce such improved management methods. Foreign
specialists would assist in conducting case studies and designing a management
improvement program. Successful experiences in the three colleges would be
transferred to other institutions. The Government expects that by the end of
the project the student/teacher ratio at project colleges would be raised from
the present 3.2:1 to 6:1, the space utilization rate would be increased from
40% to 70%, library open hours would be extended from 40 to 80 hours per week,
and "open stacks" library operation instituted.
Previously-assisted Colleges
48.       Eleven of the 23 colleges in the proposed project are already
receiving Bank Group assistance as part of the Government's first phase effort
to strengthen agricultural education. Beijing Agricultural College, which
received support under the Bank's first education project, has completed con-
struction of civil works and purchases of new laboratory equipment and is
presently implementing its technical assistance program. The 10 colleges
assisted under Cr. 1297, effective in February 1983, are proceeding on
schedule with civil works for new laboraLories; and classroom buildings, have
completed award of bids for new equipment purchases, and have begun a program
of sending fellows for overseas study and training. The participation of some
administrative and academic staff in ove-rseas fellowships and study tours, as
well as the program of technical assistance, has already enhanced the ability
of college, ministry and provincial staff in management, teacher training, and
civil works standards and design. These 11 colleges are now ready to plan and
carry out additional programs, specifically, to enable them to take the lead
in providing in-country training to staft of other agricultural colleges and
secondary schools. To this end, the second phase financing included under the



- 15 -
proposed project would support the following specific objectives: (a) to
support essential specializations, both at the undergraduate and graduate
levels, not covered in the previous project; and (b) to establish modern
library facilities and strengthen library staff.
49.       Civil works at the previously-assisted colleges would cover con-
struction and renovation of libraries and laboratories. Equipment
acquisitions would comprise: (a) up-to-date books and journals and audiovisual
equipment designed to establish the library as a pivotal resource in the
teaching/research tasks of the college; and (b) a range of standard and
advanced laboratory equipment, which would enable the colleges to strengthen
laboratories needed for postgraduate and extension-related research and for
the introduction of new fields such as food technology, agroecology and
environmental protection. To help upgrade the qualifications of library and
teaching staff in new fields charged with directing postgraduate research, the
project would provide 30 overseas fellowships (56 man-years) for advanced
training. About 25 man-years of specialist services (local and foreign) would
be used in conducting seminars for groups of colleges (para. 46).
50.       The project would provide a special program of civil works, equip-
ment, professional services (foreign and local) for design and supervision,
and technical assistance to help two of the 23 colleges establish model
facilities: a model library at Beijing Agricultural University and a model
food science department at Central China Agricultural College. Establishment
of these facilities would be expected not only to strengthen programs at the
colleges where they are located, but to have a broad impact on institutional
development throughout the system of agricultural colleges. Moreover the Bank
Group's involvement in the financing of civil works and related design
services would provide Bank Group staff with the opportunity to review
planning and construction of small scale civil works much more closely than
has been possible thus far. It is expected that with better subsector
knowledge and detailed involvement of Bank Group staff, the Bank Group may be
able to make an important contribution to the efficiency and cost effective-
ness of design and construction of educational buildings in China. To do
this, the staff must be able both (a) to understand better all aspects of cur-
rent procedures, design standards and construction techniques as now normally
applied in China, and (b) to demonstrate at least some of the benefits
inherent in better design, more modern materials and more competitive
construction procedures. The proposed model facilities meet these needs at
modest cost and with acceptable risk and have the following specific objec-
tives within this project: (a) to improve the planning and design capabili-
ties of local architects; (b) to demonstrate the effectiveness for teaching
and research of modern functional facilities; (c) to initiate the process of
preparing for competitive bidding and cost effective construction techniques
and supervision; and (d) to strengthen library science and food science, two
underdeveloped fields in China. Innovations and improvements introduced at
the two project colleges would be extended to other institutions through
special staff training programs set up for this purpose. Beijing Agricultural
University, in conjunction with the model library, would establish a depart-
ment of library science to offer degree training in this much neglected field.



- 16 -
51.       Civil works costs for the two model facilities would cover both
local and foreigrL design services, supervision, management and construction,
including certain imported building materials.  The technical assistance
program would include 30 local fellowships (16 mian-years), 25 overseas
fellowships (24 man-years), and specialist services (3.5 man-years) in the
fields of library science and food storage, processing and preservation.
Training and Extension Support Centers (estimated outlay of $8.2 million
excluding contingencies)
52.       To utilize college resources ef-ficiently in upgrading extension
personnel and management cadres, thie project would assist eight colleges
located in grain producing provinces to establish training and extension
support centerb. In establishing the centers, the project would enable the
colleges to centralize and expand inservice training programs, to develop new
extension methodologies, and to improve dvelivery of technical services.
53.       Expanded Trainitg Capacity.  By the end of the project the centers
would be expected to train annually in short courses about 2,000 cadres and
7,000 technicians to staff county agro-technical stations and agricultural
bureaus. The centers would also initiate plans for upgrading secondary school
teachers preparat:ory to establishing a full-fledged agricultural and extension
education curriculum.
54.       Improved Curriculum.  Improvements in curriculum would be attained
by expanded facilities, acquisition of modern teaching equipment and
machinery, and fellowships and specialist services.  Proposed equipment acqui-
sitions include: (a) a mobile laboratory to be used primarily for training in
the field and for testing and diagnostic purposes; and (b) laboratory equip-
ment to be used both by the centers and by the college as a whole. The
project would support 48 local fellowships (24 man years) and 76 overseas
fellowships (36 man-years) for college faculty recruited as extension center
staff. Each center would send staff members abroad for advanced training in
agricultural and extension education, agricultural economics/farm management,
and applied agricultural sciences. The project: would also finance study tours
for the center directors and senior staff to visit similar college-based
extension support facilities abroad. In addition, the project would provide
eight man-years of local specialists and five man-years of foreign specialists
to conduct joint seminars in China at each center for staff from two to three
centers and other colleges.
Agricultural Tectnical Schools (estimated outlay of $9.8 million excluding
contingencies)
55.       As part of a first phase effort to expand the output and improve the
job--related training of secondary technical graduates in agriculture, the
project would help reorient and upgrade programs at 12 technical schools now
offering two to four years of training to senior and/or junior secondary
graduates and short-term inservice courses for agricultural technicians and
teachers. The project would assist the 12 selected schools to expand enroll-
ment, raise the quality of instruction, and improve management. Monitoring
and evaluation of this component by a special panel of Chinese planners and



- 17 -
administrators would help the Government formulate a coherent program for
strengthenllng Lhe entire system of agricultural technical schocls which is now
being revived after virtual abandonment during the Cultural Revolution
(para. 36). The Government aims to develop this program by 1987. The Govern-
ment's strategy over the next decade is to increase the ratio of agriculture
students at the secondary level to those in higher institutions from the
present 1.5/1 to 3/1.
56.       Enrollment Increases.  There are currently 5,000 regular students
and 2,000 inservice trainees enrolled in the 12 technical schools. By the end
of the project, regular student enrollment would be expected to reach 9,000,
with inservice enrollment remaining at current levels. This increase would be
achieved through rehabilitation of facilities damaged during the Cultural
Revolution and provision of new facilities.
57.       Improvements in Instruction and Curricula.  Under the project the
schools would strengthen their workshops, laboratories, and audiovisual
equipment. The program of staff development would include 238 local
fellowships (120 man-years) and 60 overseas fellowships (30 man-years).
Foreign and local specialists (nine and six man-years respectively) would
conduct seminars for staff of groups of technical schools.
58.       Educational Planning.  The Government is in the process of preparing
a detailed plan for development of the system of agricultural technical
schools. The project would assist in this process by providing short term
visits for school administrators, provincial bureau heads and central govern-
ment officials to visit similar agricultural institutions abroad. In addi-
tion, specialist services would be provided to help the Government explore
alternative me.hods of strengthening the system.
Distance Learning and Educational Support Facilities (estimated outlay of
$3.3 million excluding contingencies)
59.       Project assistance would contribute to strengthening three central
agencies under the MAAF engaged in production of materials and use of mass
media for purposes of education and popularization of knowledge in agricul-
tural science and technology.
60.       Project support would enable the Central Agricultural Broadcast
School to expand coverage and improve the quality of programs by supplementing
lectures delivered via radio with review materials provided on audio casset-
tes. The project would finance audio production equipment for the Beijing
center. About 4 man-months of overseas staff training and 15 man-months of
foreign specialists would be provided under the project to improve staff
capability in program production and radio studio engineering.
61.       The project would also assist the Agricultural Film Studio to
increase its production capacity by financing construction, equipment and
technical assistance for a new video studio. Equipment provided under the
project would enable the studio to set up three production systems: (a) an
indoor system for production of master tapes; (b) an outdoor system supplied
with portable video equipment; and (c) a duplication system consisting of



- 18 -
video recording and copying equipment. A project-financed program of 10 man-
years of local and overseas fellowships would permit AFS to train 40 people
among its present technical staff of 90 to run the video studio. About 18
man-months of foreign specialist services would be provlded in these same
fields.  With the new video facilities in operation, the AFS would be able to
produce 580 programs (96 hours of master tapes) annually, seven times present
production capacity, and about 23,000 hciurs of video cassette copies.
62.       In addition, a modest program of construction, equipment, and tech-
nical assistance would enable the Printing Plant of the MAAF Publishing House
to set up a new printshop specializing in production of teaching materials for
agricultural colleges and secondary schools. The printshop would be equipped
with an offset press, phototypesetting machinery and bookbinding equipment.
Some training would be provided by the equipment manufacturers. In addition,
one month of specialist services would be provided in color printing tech-
niques. Once in operation, the new printshop would increase total printing
capacity by about 20%.
Evaluation, Planning, and Preparation of Future Projects (estimated outlay of
$1.2 million excluding contingencies)
63.       Evaluation.  Evaluation of progress in meeting project objectives
would be carried out under the direction of the Project Office in the MAAF's
Bureau of Education. The Project Office would be responsible for designing
standardized instruments to evaluate the four education components. Under-
standing on means to measure progress towards meeting project objectives was
reached at negotiations. To assist in this process, the project would finance
local and foreign specialists (estimated at three man-years and one man-year,
respectively), and 13 man-years of overseas fellowships in the field of
evaluation. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (i) by using standardized instruments and an agreed set of project
indicators, project progress would be measured annually until 1992; and (ii)
tracer surveys of graduates would be conducted annually until 1992 for
colleges and specialized schools beginning in 1984 (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Data obtained from the tracer surveys would be
used, inter alia, to monitor the progress and effectiveness of the
Government's policies towards its goal of developing a core of committed
agricultural professionals and technicians (para. 39).
64.       Planning.  In the case of the training and extension support centers
and the technical schools, extending the original model or a modified version
on a nationwide scale will require extensive planning at both central and
local levels. To assist the Project Office in coordinating this major plan-
ning effort within and between ministries, the project would finance local and
foreign specialists (estimated at eight and four man-years, respectively), and
about 20 foreign fellowships (13 man-years) and essential equipment. The pro-
ject would also provide six man-years of specialist services to help extend
the model developed for the Jiangsu manpower study (para. 40) to one or two
additional provinces.



- 19 -
65.       Preparation of Future Projects.  While Bank Group-assisted projects
have initially focussed on higher education as the first priority, the
proposed project includes a first phase program to support development of
secondary/postsecondary education in agriculture. The project would provide
funds for local and foreign specialist services and foreign visits to prepare
future investment programs in agricultural education, in particular in such
areas as agricultural technical schools and the training of extension
personnel and agricultural school teachers.
Project Management and Implementation
66.       Responsibility for project implementation would rest with the
MAAF. The Director of the MAAF's Bureau of Education would assume overall
responsibility for directing the project. He would be aided in this task by
tie Project Office established under the Bureau in 1982 to implement the Agri-
cultural Education and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CHA). This office would
coordinate with and be supported by relevant units within the MAAF, including
the divisions of higher education and technical schools, and by counterpart
units in the Ministry of Forestry, Ministry of Water Conservancy and Central
Meteorological Bureau. The Project Office would also use the services of the
China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) of the Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations and Trade. A Review Committee has been formed comprising
representatives of project institutions to provide technical expertise to the
Project Office, review staff development plans, and determine requirements for
specialist services. Attached to the Review Committee would be an Internatio-
nal Advisory Panel appointed by the Project Office to help in selection of
seminar leaders and advise on seminar arrangements, evaluation, and curriculum
development. At the institution level, the Project Office would be assisted
by units set up by each project institution to carry out local planning, bud-
geting and monitoring functions. This has proved an effective working
arrangement under Cr. 1297-CHA. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that the following would be established and/or maintained
throughout the life of the project: (a) a Review Committee; (b) an
International Advisory Panel, not later than December 31, 1984, with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank Group; and (c) the Project Office
established under Cr. 1297-CHA (Section 3.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Assurances were also obtained that fellowship candidates would be
selected in accordance with selection criteria satisfactory to the Bank Group
and that those chosen for overseas study would receive language training as
needed at the language centers established under Cr. 1297-CHA (Section 3.06 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); understandings were reached on the
selection criteria. Terms of reference for specialists and draft contracts
would be submitted to the Bank Group for review before contracts are signed.
Status of Project Preparation
67.       The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  Designs are
currently being prepared for most project institutions. Invitations for bids
for the first phase of equipment procurement would be announced by June
1984. Evaluation of bids would be completed by September 1984 and awards
would be made shortly thereafter.



- 20 -
Project Cost and Financing
68.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at Y 350.0 mil-
lion or $175.0 million equivalent including contingencies. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at $80.0 million or 46% of total project
cost. Project costs include: (a) construction and renovation of physical
facilities; (b) locally procured and imported equipment and furniture; and (c)
technical assistance.  Total financing required, including the front-end fee
on the Bank loan and the charge on the use of foreign capital, is $202.6 mil-
lion. Bank Group financing under the proposed loan and credit would amount to
$68.8 mil'lion (39% of total project costs) and cover 100% of direct foreign
exchange costs or 86% of all foreign exchange costs. The Bank loan would be
$45.3 million and tiue IDA credit would be SDR 22 million ($23.5 million equi-
valent). The remaining $133.8 million would be financed by both national and
provincial governments. Cost estimates for civil works, goods and services
are based on May 1984 prices. Construction costs were estimated on the basis
of recently started construction, analysis of unit prices of comparable build-
ings, and existing sketch plans. Furniture and equipment costs were based on
master lists prepared by project institutions, and reviewed by the Project
Office, consultants, and Bank Group staff. Costs for overseas fellowships
were estimated at $1,250 per man-month. Contingency allowances amounting to
$20.8 million include: (a) physical contingencies, at 5% of base costs,
amounting to $7.2 million; and (b) price contingencies ($23.6 million),
allowing for an estimated local and foreign price escalation of 3.5% per annum
for the balance of 1984, 8.0% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 9% in 1986-88, and 7.5%
in 1989. Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
69.       Recurrent Costs.  Recurrent costs generated by the project would be
about $15 million equivalent a year in 1983 prices. As a result, the share of
higher agricultural education in total recurrent expen 1j ture for higher educa-
tion would increase by 1% (from the present 8% to 9%).-   This would not be a
significant additional burden on the budgets of the central and provincial
governments.
1/   Since only partial data are available on agricultural education budget at
all levels of education, it was not possible to relate recurrent cost to
total agricultural education expenditure in China. However, during
negotiation, an understanding was reached that the Project Office would
complete collection of data and provide them to the first supervision
mission for this project.



- 21 -
Procurement
70.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
PROCUREMENT PROFILE
($ millions)
Total Cost
Procurement Method              Including
Project Element               ICB   LP/a   Other/b   N.A.    Contingencies
1. All civil works except
model buildings               -     64.4       -         -          64.4
- Model Buildings               -      5.2       -         -            5.2
-     (1.0)/c   -         _           (1.0)
2.  Equipment and teaching
materials                     43.7    33.0      7.5        -          84.2
(43.7)     -      (7.5)      -          (51.2)
3.  Specialist services             -        -      8.3        -            8.3
-       -      (6.0)      -           (6.0)
4.  Fellowships and training        -        -     12.9        -           12.9
-       -    (10.5)       -          (10.5)
Total                    43.7   102.6    28.7         -          175.0
(43.7)   (1.0)  (24.0)       -          (68.7)
/a   LP stands for Local Procedures which involve the assignment of one or
more contracts to a pre-selected contractor. For civil works, a contrac-
tor can be a construction bureau of a ministry, or a construction company
of a city or provincial government. For goods, contractors could be
factories or suppliers.
/b   "Other" includes (a) procurement of equipment under negotiated contracts
or on the basis of evaluation of bids from at least three suppliers; and
(b) procurement of technical assistance.
/c   This amount represents 20% of the estimated total cost of the two model
buildings in the project and is equal to the estimated direct foreign
exchange for the same facilities.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounits financed by the Bank
Group.
All civil works in the project, except the two model buildings, would be pro-
cured through established local procedures. For the two model buildings for
which the Bank Group would provide partial financing, particular attention
would be paid to procurement procedures to ensure improved design standards
and cost effective contract awards. Preliminary and detailed designs would be



- 22 -
developed and submitted for Bank Group review by the MAAF's design bureau with
the assistance of qualified international architects selected in accordance
with the Guidelines and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank Group.  Since the civil works packages of the two buildings would be
relatively small ($3.3 million and $0.8 million respectively) and could not be
packaged together, they would not attract foreign bidders. Prior to assign-
ment of these two contracts the Government would reach agreement with the Bank
Group on the form of the civil works contract and detailed construction
procedures. The Bank Group would review with the Government existing
contracts to modify and develop the contract documents, measurable performance
standards for construction planning, cost effective acquisition of materials,
payment arrangements, and construction supervision. The Bank Group would also
review the procedures for selection and appointment of qualified local
construction bureaus or companies to implement the contracts. This involve-
ment would also give it an opportunity to explore with the Government the
practicality of introducing competitive bidding in local civil construction
for education facilities.
71.       Simple or standard locally produced equipment would be financed by
the Government and procured through local procedures. Advanced equipment bid
packages exceeding $200,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines and are
expected to represent about $43.7 million in total. Local manufacturers would
be permitted to participate and would be extended a 15% preference margin, or
the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower. Equipment in bid packages
below $200,000 equivalent and aggregating to a maximum of $6.0 million would
be procured on the basis of a comparison of quotations received from at least
three suppliers eligible under the guidelines in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group. The $6.0 million ceiling is based on past
experience and a review of equipment lists for the proposed project. Books in
foreign languages and teaching materials estimated at about $1.5 million would
be purchased directly from publishers or distributors after negotiating for
the best discounts. Prior Bank Group review of contract awards would exclude
small contracts ($200,000 or less) estimated t:o cover less than 15% of the
value of all contracts. Post review of such small contracts would be
performed by supervision missions on a s-ample basis. Specialists would be
selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers".
Disbursement
72.       The proposed loan/credit of $68.8 million equivalent would be dis-
bursed on the basis of: (a) 20% of the total expenditure for construction of
two model buildings (paras. 50 and 51); (b) 100% of the foreign expenditures
on imported equipment or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment
procured on the basis of ICB; (c) 75% of the invoiced cost of imported
equipment procured locally; (d) 100% of the expenditures for specialist ser-
vices; (e) 100% of expenditures for overseas fellowships and study tours; and
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures for books and instructional materials. All
disbursements would be fully documented except for expenditures for overseas
fellowships which would be submitted under statements of expenditures. The
documentation would be retained in the Project Office and be available for



- 23 -
review by supervision missions. The statements of expenditure would be
certified by the Director of the MAAF's Bureau of Education.
73.       Under the project, a special account would be set up and maintained
in US dollars in the Bank of China to cover expenditures on equipment, specia-
list services, overseas fellowships, and banks and institutional materials.
The initial deposit of the US dollar equivalent of SDR 1.5 million ($1.6
million) represents the highest estimated expenditure for any three months of
the program. Applications for replenishment would be submitted quarterly.
Opening of the special account would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
5.01 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
74.       The completion date would be December 31, 1989, and the closing date
June 30, 1991.
75.       Auditing and Reporting.  Assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment during negotiations that: project accounts would be maintained according
to accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank Group; annual
audits of project expenditures by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group would be provided within six months of the close of each Chinese fiscal
year (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and a project
completion report would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months of
the closing date of the loan/credit. It is expected that the Ministry of
Finance would issue audit reports in accordance with methods and procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group until the State Audit Agency is in a position to
issue audit reports meeting Bank Group-recommended standards. Agreement on
this would be reached during negotiations.
Benefits and Risks
76.       Benefits.  The proposed project would result in three principal
benefits: (a) improved curricula, teaching materials, and instruction in the
agricultural sciences at both higher and secondary/postsecondary levels;
(b) increased output of well-qualified agricultural professionals and techni-
cians; and (c) better planning for and management of the overall agricultural
education system. The major thrust of the project would be to improve the
quality of project institutions through provision of staff training, specia-
list services, and modern laboratory, computer and audiovisual equipment.
Institutions would thus be equipped to help supply well-qualified profes-
sionals and technicians needed for China's agricultural modernization pro-
gram. Moreover, project results are expected to have a broad impact on the
overall agricultural education system.
77.       Risks.  Project institutions fall under four major ministries and
represent two educational levels. There is a risk that this complexity may
impede effective project implementation. Particular attention would therefore
be paid to ensuring adequate coordination among all agencies involved. This
task would be the responsibility of the Project Office under the MAAF assisted
by the Review Committee, the International Advisory Panel, and the 44 project
units. A second project uncertainty concerns the organization of the seminars
to be financed under the proposed project. Since the seminars are pivotal to
the transfer of new technologies and teaching methods, it is essential that



- 24 -
adequate time be devoted to systematic recruitment of specialists, design of
topics, and grouping of participating institutions. To provide additional
assistance to the Review Committee and the Project Office, an International
Advisory Panel would be established and maintained throughout the life of the
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the People's
Republic of China and the Bank, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
79.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are: (a) approval by China's
State Council of the Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) opening of the Special Account (para. 73).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 23, 1984
Washington, D. C.



-25 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MIST                       (MDST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          /b  RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970-  ESTD1AT/-            ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
ARM (TUOUSAID SQ. KIM)
TOTAL                                9561.0       9561.0      9561.0
AGRICULTURAL                         3176.3       3213.0      3182.9
GNP PER  CAPITA (US$)                     40.0/c       90.0        300.0               276.7                     1028.6
ElRlCY CONSIuFrION MR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        340.0        427.0       618.0                398.4                      792.8
POPULATION AND VETAL STATISTICS**
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  683400.0    838900.0    991300.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          18.4/d         ..        20.6                 21.5                       32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              1197.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                1434.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2040
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          71.5        87.7        102.5               161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. ACRI. LAND              215.2       261.1        307.8               363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            38.9        37.7         32.2                36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                            56.3        57.2         62.4                59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.8         5.1          5.4                 4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                 1.7          2.1          1.5                 1.9                        2.3
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                 4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           38.9/e      34.1         20.9                29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           23.77;i       9.8         7.8                10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.87e        2.6         1.4                 2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..           ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          ..         74.0/f              48.1                        46.6
MM AND NUrITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                            ..       100.0        117.0               111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIRE1HENTS)        78.8/e       88.7       107.0                 98.1                      114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             49.47Th     53.0         65.0                56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANDIMAL AND PULSE            ..        12.7         15.0                13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE**          26.1/e      10.7          7.2                12.2                         7.6
IM.LTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)**        40.5/g       57.9        67.2                 59.6                       60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)*"       165.0/e      90.0         71.0                96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          ..                 32.9                       37.1
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          ..                 18.1                       41.4
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..          ..                  4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             8330.0/h    3800.0/h    1920.0/h             3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              4020.0      2840.0       1890.0              4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1040.0        760.0       490.0              1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                               210.0          ..        160.0               298.4                       651.1
RURAL                             10140.0           ..      1010.0              5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PEP HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..          ..                  ..                        27.0
BSImIG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         5.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..         4.2
RURAL                                  ..                      5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTA.                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN
RURAL                                  ..          ..
___--__________--________ __--_______________--____ ___________--____________  _________- ________- _____ ____- _________-________ -



- 26 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLERS REP. OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT   b           _Ow INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1969-       :970-~~ EST I4AT7-         ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION***
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                   109.0        110.0        117.0                96.1                      101.2
MALE                       ..           ..       126.0               107.8                      106.0
FEMALE                     .I. ..                16.0                 82.9                       97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    21.0         23.0        34.0                30.2                        44.9
MALE                       . .          .         40.0                37.3                       50.0
FEMALE                     ..           ..        27.0                22.2                       44.6
VOCATIONAL (3 OF SECONDARY)              ..          ..          2.2                 2.3                       18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                ..          ..         26.0                34.4                       32.7
SECONDARY                             ..           ..         17.0                18.4                       23.4
ADUJLT LITERACY RATE (3)              43.0/d         ..         69.0/i              53.5                       72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              ..          ..           ..                 1.6                        9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..          ..        150.6                96.8                      113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..          ..         15.8                 9.9                       50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..          ..           ..                16.4                       54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..           ..           ..                 3.6                        3.4
LABOR FORCE****
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         319589.0/j  377495.0    463348.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    38.3         38.0         37.2                33.3                       33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..           ..         68.9                69.0                       50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     ..          ..         18.7                15.8                       19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.8/i       45.0        46.7                 42.5                       38.6
MALE                                55.9/j       54.5        57.0                 54.4                       50.7
FEMALE                              37. 07       35.0        35.9                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9//        1.0          0.8                 1.0                        1.1
INCtHE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHsOLDS              ..          ..         12.5/k              16.5                       22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..         39.37i;            43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..          6.8/t~              6.9                        6.4
LOWEST 407 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..         18.4Tk              17.5                       15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..               133.9                      194.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..               111.6                      155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                 ..                       178.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                 ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                43.8                       24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..          ..                51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritEmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Interpolated 1957-62 data; Id 1964; /e 1955-65 average; /f Percentage of women of reproductive age; /g 1955-64
average; /h Senior doctor of weatern medicine; /i 1982; 1 1957; /k Distribution of people ranked by households pet
capita income.
**  All population and vital statistics are Bank estimates which differ from Chinese official statistics.
***  Formal education only; non-formal enrollment is substantial.
**** Definition and coverage differ from those of Chinese official statistics.



-27-
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
UP INITtONo 0F SOCIAL INDICATORS
Not.or   Altthough thn  doe  dr-e  frm  noofce  gen-rall  jodgd tho ot onbrtttive nod rolbioh, &I eboold .1e he noted thoot obe  toy nun be InterntLonlty
campeoble becoce  of the look of etondordled dnlottm  an.d ocoopo. ooe  by dlfforoEt -onori. in collectIn  tho date.  The dot  ore  nonthrnloen, oafo  to
dn.eribe  _rinno of e.itude, indiceo  tren.d., oed'eheronot-ne  -wraj  -e., difiron. bet e    oarin
Tb. refe.... g-pe or. (1) theb. - ou-try gf-p of oh. nobject nomory od (2) a onuotry group otth  -ManO    highor-                 roaInca  than oh. coooty gro..p of oh.
nobjoot cootoy (.-.ePt for -wish (tene  oil loporoert  groo.p t.l.r 'Middle In.o. North Afriot ond Middle  A    L.00     oh.n-n beccon  of et r...e S., cI-alrl
effiitlen).  to Oh. rofoeecogroa   dteO.                  .-rge r  ppolooton ecIghted ortobeelo mono for ..qh indicator and  h-tnn only nn mjrItoy of thLcetrnei
miteM.be  dote for tht Ini .anof.  Stlo. thl cveag  of cacr.n no   th. iIndli-or  depend. on  hle   -Iaroilaitoyof data and L. oot u-ifor-, ceonent be
ocerlne  in rLatin   orra    of OOe ledictor to aehr   ITo.. c-nroge  a. ooiy aefol to caeiog the  au  o   n  indictor an c lim  aeg theR ....i tp nod
flit (th-hotd  nq.thm.)                                              f9o!ionTxono   -;f Ppetlon1 divi11dedy nueber o,f prooti'lng
-W 4-Ttotn  n-faceare  cop          gLAnd area cod inland ot..nfn19(M0,                         jOIiOAiiqiiTIlU"TromA"IeLo  thool  Et uivrlty  Le .
ced iM LO dccc.,                                                                            Pocoltte   M, Wortlent  nioon - fPop tlonio  dividtd by  -ob-r ef p tcioIog
I'  ll,  oto - fanicte o a gricoltur..  ate AT   ec  teepovartly ofpeeoenly                         leodfe_le grdaute e-ce, onnintot nore   prootlal  -oro  and
or eon  *1 p.ttaree  noet and knebee gade.t or cc lIe. fallen; 1960,                             I. .ur .n oILLore.,
1979 aod 1MMO dote.                                                                           Pocoltlen1  _r  onlteL Med - tnl.  Are. adral-PopoIlati    (totel,
urbn,oodroel)diido  b  obirrenaciocoube  of hpittel hedn
TA-   09& ,     -fGPpeoo-pit. ectiote8 et torren t mrbkt prcot,                               avalla.blo in pob1it and privotn ineerl and epecialinod henpite1 and
AiI10Ii160'IA   onorercic     RtOo   WonMed look Atl.. (1979-M1 banin)                     oa....ntlncntre                      tieltlarecbLtnhnvtn  pernoatly nia ffd
imno  Li7O, nod 198  dot.                                                                         by.a  ee   n   lylttI. fncthinetepr_evidIng Lp,inipelly c.stedla1
M   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~eC. . a.e no t incude.   Cad h.EnLylolt  beave, Locado hetlch ed
R%l?   ISUTI  PlO CAPITA - an-,  cppeRe--t coonaptioc of ccoiclcdIccl  -etef  ct peraoncytiof fed by a phyni1i1o (boo by A cedlcal
pret .in _(oTon  lIgnite, petrlnla,R  Macovl gacRod hydro-, nlafnecotor.1cdoife,et.  chc  ofr  opoln                                                   ccodticoon
cod Stecbeosl el.tcottty) 1kin loee   fca  eq.1alc  per ceptto;                                   prni.   lntodrai  of  ncafcilte   Per etatinttcel p.rpeint
1960, 19y0, and 19MM dat..                                                                        ureelupiat.,  inclada  .   prft Il.Ipe1/ge..ral hcnpitalc, andrua
eepial, lcalor  ura  hePInaLt ornM  ndical ond noterity cente..
~~~ san~~~~~~.d.) - Ao of Jaly 1; 1960. 1970. n AMM 19lnlnn- 1clllMo _ Tatalcme   faotcnt   rdnhra
f-ro  ho.pital. dIvIded by the nube  at bedo.
Mrha Pot -lt po (e ..cot of total) - .acl  of arhc.c total.  pp.Lation;
dtffnco   ditcIc_n of o-a  afoot ay affect optparbillly of dooc                            HOUSING
seq   .oeortee.; 1960, 1970, and 19M; data.                                                           St.ae .in  of Liueodoroe  a   eebl   total  Lre   cod_ura
Posmlatj.fZos.ionA bcuaabuldwcoic          fu  o   nuietoochf                                                                                                    4oe    atr
PoIAI    n Lr- 20  - Cooront ppltietic   projectioc  co  h.cnd on 1980                     and their -ait :mol.  A boardtr. crDAdg., my orfy oo  he Linlded in
noii  p.P 1. btyo      e andto  end their  -ct.icy cod in-tility                             the bhetehld fcr etottincitl pnP.e...
nate.  Pojootino paotir  for nofnality ratoc oooprit  ofornbrt   ubrof  ocoonepervoom   ttal ur An, cod                                                  . cao   -orog  n-eber
tootle  -naleg lift epoctony idt birtlh  Inroin   ich cootry'n pe                            ofprot  e   o   Ic  gloro, cod rural . aecpd r..nveotlooc
otpttc intee  e..nI, co  feI   l  lifn1 eoetn       -cbtilni.s ot 77.5                        dalingn, ronp.eotlvly.  Deo11ingo eoLud  oacypereovet cirottar.t and
yoore   Tht P.ram.c: foe foroiyrta alto hen. thrnlevl                                         _ccepld P.".n.
caigdeoine In ferility .ccordlog   to Oono  lee  an Id peet fasily                     Arcncc no tlcttrlelnv toreoofiolnc)-t i urhe, Icd                      .urlI
planing perfuecoe.  Zho ecootry In ibec c a,god on   ftncoo                                   Covololdelig   iheaolrt1oloe 7rtr   npretg
-ohcelnto  nrcity and E.rliOlty cree. f of projittorn  puRpee.                       of totl  uro        4 0  rura  donlllogtrtepeotionly.
Moutcar noopointiae -loee.tatiooor   pepolnto.  ctre La oo trooth
nIece the btrt  rte to equal to ch. dooth cone,.and al   the ago                         EDUCATION
ntrotar    -L"tu   -.toccct.  ThIn in tobioved coly afto  fntlltrtn                          y9o   oclotltion
decla t  the rfplace..n  lone)..  of u.lt net rer    _eiorte, nhnPiLr   ehe    Otl talc  od f.coo. -Cloo. total, talc cod fatal.
-ahgertioo   onrpoe    tnf tocty.  Tho. entIo .ory                                              onElMneo  ofL, tac  tote   -cay            levla   eto         of reetv
pepooooeetico an en .ticaced on the b hnocf cb   rjce   hren-lay nehecL-aie popuocticon; n-rcLy Occude  chlin   gd c-11
l..r nitrtocr    -o tloOiLoo  in .reched - Tb. y-c  Vh.n cottin...Y                               nic.- e-   pupilt ere beloc  orbe- the offLIci.1 ocheol ag.
P.p  ticncenl  erac:, oodor  cet-ncl Yal. co  fn    - CI-r'nd an ebon; n..condry
- Id-nyppltioo pe  nqaer  kil-e-e (Ill h.c tene).nf                                 proolden,   nnn,  eunouo,o  coher orccoo  i.ecruatioo  forI
Lijdm    90 O1970. an.d (Oil dtc..-                                                      popln. aoea'Y of l) tc 1) pnarc of a te;  -orrnpod-nnorenr
P.f no. be. celelorl ed - Coepucod at cbtn-e                           I-iuooo   ad               S.nnoy.lly noeldnd,
00171 1960, 1970 end 1980 dooa.                                                            V-etticl  eo.o. nnn    .reec. of .r.. dary) -tctu  lentitutio..
Pooolutto  M   Mor-tur    roo - Childre  (0-14 Yoa.,,)r; oott  (IS-                               -nlf   nblc    oucil  oother preorne   hIoh oporote tcdnpeod-
pog..toaoto; 1960, 1970, cod 19M1 dntt,                                                       Paeil-tnoc;hnrol M      rnay   o   ecdary    Tetul.1 nodetnoor Ln   i
PoocttoOrco bo   rrnt) - total             - 1tna  groth race. of tote1 eld-                   prnr   n   eodr    oedvdd  yndr   fncbr vMacr
trpeetonfoe 190-0  19 70, ed 1970-01.                                                  r-pcadiog IoocL..
Ponoluntt. Gree   PaceLpnrei  - uban - M.-Ie gr..h rte. of arbo                                 fd.Lu literacy rt It'otec)    ISOc  odu1t. tebln to mad nod oritn)t
Aoplton for 1950-l, a107. ad197D-0L.                                                         a    tneco   dlaut pupl.o u.o aged 15 Y.r,. ond ever.
clnde Mooch C.. (pe  thooca)~ A.-. oo  Ivn biclth  Per tLhotnd of old-
year pepolanloc; 1900, 1970, avd 199u dccc.                                                COnI9pTIOoN
Condo bth ten  (nor thououd)  A- ne   deathn per'theuncod of cid-yeor.oents.or. Corn looI chu-ad ecoploticvt -P........-l..o
pe     ..too    10, 170, cod 1901 dan.-                                                 .orn  tent Oct n. thac oigit penoo; lotden cobu1ec..... h.-ce  and
luOo-Avcrconvnher of deuab:gteon  oco01b.rtnil Otnry rehl~...
beiAl,  _L   "u0E01.rn  pelud  f ab  e           ...ccn  Preeent cg-cpeccfie                 1    Onecr (" mr1 thaondl PoPulctict) - All 0tY.. of rcIcefor radIo
fnrttlity I---.; ocually It= ...ar tvrgno ending iv  M9D0  1970, andbrdettn   vr.pulcerOandofouain;eldtu-
obro-oco   nlnan.  cpnof                   f  tOcnt  amlyplvvvgtoa icuoebo1inhcd It ...vtLos.
Protre        -ler  ceet                                                                     TV etlrt(rihnooavd roiclutico) - TVlrot.ive-  for broadviet to
Pectn       U.noln         of narlodemv   -yeooooo   arnd                                   gvrlpolvyt ohoaor   oplln   otaoovtendTVrcL.eto
al.l nrodcevI nLeer  -90grup                                      oofce Ctr-n)uclco flee Ottuoee ccu), duon     -1ina--lu  acToe-
lodn of eud  rcduciovper Earl ..I111-7I (lt -. binlt  -fpr- alt                          ye)dy1 fy  oa-dytcc.I   a  oh           t  ccgneofot. -Lu  coonctdo
fond codld I  n elelod-r year hein.  Co..odI 004  toner pttay   goode (0.:0.Citne. detno  Acntl.ooco cot Capite co  YOer- S-od on thn oucro
nutarcoo  lotte.d at nua        i lch t-  udibltco  cotolo vaLitrni   fn.o.                              -Ihood during the ycc, Occluding oboL_oo    cdrlon-lbceInoaco
coffee cod ito or. noeldoft.  Aggregato prcduecic  of itoh toacity L.c_ eIIo acute.
hecd o   noit l atge prudoer ptlle  eoghot.; 1901-b), 1970, avd t9ol
deco.                                                                                       LABOR0 FORCE
One  -iote  onro up      oroc(t  tv .     f tecineo.) - ConPuond fram                           mtcl labor Ftee (chou-adn) - ttnE-      I-Ity actionp-     cn   vlde   oe
ncryeuvlo   of no  fe noppoeoalbci   conyprcpc   e                                             forcen cdonploy.d but  _ocldioghosicn  ocudn-t    o.,corn
dY.    niel  upinrmrn   onotpouto,iprnt.                                                      mpptci  ot     al  ogon.  Inficfi... to i-oiooocucica    o
inperot, and  heodot lo enoi.  fOnt toppIne eetcladntv Poll feed, ned.epattble; t9lt, 1970 a.d t9lt detc.
qortieireceernentifood   by""" .l batd 00 -pbytiotglclced  fo   celdrfutt  trocI-tint  Icrec  -c fee -og,  cecy -huoloen
ectivicy cod b.Ithcc  cc.idleica9Fcitc.oct         eeoa    body oieloho                           fi"cgebe cg   ftctl 1blat fIec  lI-               t  (970 and  91 dat..
con cat nt diOrlbttecof poPolcln  cd ti     anaL'prcc  for eccor                         InduetY (ert-ct  - tuber fotto  to el-ciog. ecotr-tloc, tanf-ecuIng
cc boeobod Ocel;  961-i5.t1970 sad '080 dc.                                                 an  ctonictt yt, on--o  0ea c-  p. r-e-tge ef tc-t tobor fc.ren; 196.
Pie canto eerily of erocnic (iron ncrday) - fttccince-c-o  of pet cpito                  t970 ucd 1981 deco.
a" Pt nupplyo   fI       '!.rdY.  Oc ;ucyy of foed Ic doficod te  bic.-                        PecI_ ieiooc  o   ev(-cct  cr  d   nu.-Prii tco
Inuemci   o   ll ecocrio!  oncbliehod by 0110 pr-idr fornciu                           ottclyrtrtota co  tott,nb,cd Inc-  labor"fotec
pole   proi,of odulch 1I  oSt_  chcud he ecceal ploteic.  Th.n.                                 1060, 1970, an  1901 dot..  Three eto boe ... d   LLOD pr'.    pti     ran
coondod. err Lacnr chac thoty of 75 gocon of tacol pcelvovd, 13ften rgetc1af-o   coct  cf  ch                                             uoic   ol  co 0. Ito croc.W     A
of oonlpocioceorg    ard eId, yr..e P.                     by 7d00 lvtefeo.t.r reIa    o Icctoo
ThirOcld    foold P= ur.e,; 1961-65, 1970 ovd 1950 date.                                      trcc....  Oeodcc        l R-1   eatla  f ycpol.tiic  -dolo  I  cad i5 cod over co
Plt earic  Proei nulri tram avOnl end culno - Pocicpply ef feud                                   thc  -orn1 (lot- fcrc-.
dond  rmanel  an  puinee cc grate per dby; 1961-65, 1907  cod 1077
dano.                                                                                       INCOME DITRlInUTtON
Child (onon LI) tah  Rae pe  theocacdl - = 1vd,l cthntpr th-aoa  ItI.rncg   tficvlre   bt  nco   c   id      nrtdb  tbe
at  gop  ,  70cr., tccido   i lneo   grop; furl O             _loclyo                      etc,tttn   0ptyc   ern   0rro      peao-c 60 preOot
teotcrinedc d   dert e   Caml_Ill cablen; 1960, 1970 ocd 1981 dota.                             boamehldo.
ct i Irtb; (960,t1970 cad 1981 dar.                                                             chold bo itLrrotd cthnoclaerabil.atic
lofon- Marcolinv Moto (-e  buad      anatdch   folo io  air                                    EctOnatnd Ib-oiuco FPcortr Ite2or loo1 (tS) pe   -irif) -utboc and rotI
y-o  of coo " pth .bot.   loon birch.; 1960 , 1970 cod t9ll doto.                               Obca       --accy locca  locol co thrn - bea   "lecl bolue obitl cnivcno
Adroc of lt. coor (erceo  of ppol'Ioct -- 1 i   .ol  ur..c and.taotI                    -tucrit   lly adeqate loot pin -oti. Icia     fo-td rqLronn   ioute
N-bahe  of poepl. (cocci, urben, mad1rurl:  aitt  r.anc..hieareo    cc. ca. ..oftdblei..
tncPpyinidn tocdarnonenata trote  hot                                                    tErncLerned olot-o- rc-rt toc..n cool (Ott oo tc.tic) - urbc.o d rual-1
anooaitd voter eah cc th.o fet- p-o-ted barholno, nyrige, rcod                             tuerttoepntylcec   ntli  o-te-ilordofvogopoaii
neoic.ry neil.) ce p.rc.cocgin at he ir roepecoOco pep..itclatn.  lv00        p.tccuel- toecto aj.-tfcl hcicry.   -1he    ad lini doion  fomb he.uo
noebore of the hb-u-o-bhld de cot ha c  to  p-td edioptope..cicato  pert ofper
the dcy in fetching the faily'e vonor code.
dieecl  n pococgo  of floor roeecln  paputicoon.  Oo-nc  donpo.o.
my Iolun ib  c   tinelo  end diepoi Itith cr rorhcui  tceti   f                                                                                          Mcoul   o   ui  i   itolec
Ai-.ecret  aM  oete-oat- byocr-rotynctv tIn as cf PIt                                                                          cecmcdrnlnnad   rjclochprn
pr,irio  and ninil-r Mvtlcio.Cy 19g3



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (Z) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                       2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                    8.3       7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                   11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7    9.9
Net Yaterial Product (NMP)          5.2       4.8       12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   1102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NMP deflator         (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate        (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68         1.55    1.50    1.71   1.89
Amount                                                        Average Annual Growth
1982                   Shares of GD0  t%)                    (Z) at Constant Prices
National Accounts              ($ billion)    1957    1979    1982    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
/a       /a
GOP                            260.4       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8            5.8       6.0       6.5
Agriculture                   96.1          ..    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6            3.2      5.8        3.2
Industry                     105.4          .,    43.5    40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1           8.9       7.4       8.2
Other                         58.9          ..    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5            4.3       1.2       7.1
Consumption                    181.6        76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7            5.4       5.7       7.4
Investment                      73.2        23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8            6.8       2.3       4.8
Exports GNFS                    24.9         3.71b   6.0       9.6      8.7      8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1          3.2
Imports GNFS                    20.0         3.5/b   6.8       7.7    10.0       9.8    2.3/b    9.4/b    2.7          1.9
National savings                78.9        23.6/c  31.9    30.3    26.4    23.0
As 2 of GDP
Public Finance                                    1957          1979           1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign             28.7          27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                            16.1          17.7           14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                    +12.6           +9.7          +8.0
Capital expenditures                            11.9          15.1            8.8
Foreign borrowing /d                             0.7           0.9            1.6
Other Indicators                                1957-79   1979-82   1982-85   1985-90
/la
GDP growth rate (2)                             5.4        6.0        5.7        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate t2)                  3.5        4.6        4.4        5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (2)              8.3
ICOR                                            5.4         ..         ..        3.8
Yarginal savings rate                           0.42        ..         ..        0.16
Import elasticity                              0.95       0.45        1.9        1.3
/a  NWP basis.
7T  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Gross.



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
.NP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                               Annual Growth Rates (2)
(million US$ at                           (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                    Actual                           Projected
1982                   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports              22,476                  25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    2.6    2.0    1.0    4.0
Energy                          5,353
Other primary                   5,110                                           .
Manufactures                   11,356                                           .
Other                             657                                                                  .
Merchandise imports              17,830                  21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.0    7.6   15.0   10.0    q.0
Food                            4,003
Petroleum                           0                                                 0      0       0       0
Machinery and equipment         3,405
Other                          10,422
Prices
Export price index (1978-100)                           100.0  115.9  119.1  114.4  109.8  113.0  117.5  124.2
Import price index (1978-100)                           100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9  103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Terms of trade index (1978-100)                         100.0   99.4   97.7  110.1  106.6  105.1  104.5  104.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                 Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                             (at constant prices)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  10O.0        1.6       8.0      14.8      1.9       4.n
Energy                      19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0
Other primary               34.1   28.4   24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8
Manufactures                46.4   46.5   47.8   50.5   59.5   70.9
Other                        0      0       5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3
Imports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        2.3       9.4      3.2      10.8      1O0n
Food                          ..     ..   19.6   22.5   20.0   16.8                            O
Energy                       0      0       0      0       0      8 2                                   O" 0  0  0
Machinery and               25.2   27.5   24.2   19.1   26.7   25.1
equipment
Other                                      56.2   58.5   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With          Share of Trade With             Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (X)   Developing Countries (X)            Planned Economies (2) /a
Direction of Trade            1978            1981         1978            1981              1978             1981
Exports                     37.3            45.9         51.6            50.2              11.1             3.9
Imports                     73.3            76.8         17.5            18.7               9.2             4.5
/a Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OP PAYMENTS, IEXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at carrent prices)
Actual                 _              Projected
Indicator                             1979    1980    1981       1982    1983    1985    1990
____________________________ ______________   estimate
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services           15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  26,300  29,350  48,020
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.          13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  22,150  24,420  39,330
Imports of goods and services           18,204  24,752  24,380   20,793  22,100  30,040  59,470
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.          16,212  22,049  21,047   17,830  19,010  26,230  52,760
Net transfers                              596      500     680       412     420      500     800
Current account balance                 -2,257  -3,351   1,457    5,608   4,620    -190 -10,650
Private direct investment                            57     265       359     400      500   1,500
MLT loans (net)                            800   1,130      416       426     400      800   6,000
Official                                 350      446     479       557     600
Private                                  450      684     -63      -131    -200
Other capital                            2,054   2,555      365      -102    -400    -600   1,000
Change in net reserves ("-"
increase)                               -597    -391  -2,503   -6,291   -5,020   -510   2,150
International reserves                   7,274   7,665  10,168   16,459   21,479
of which:  gold                        5,12C1   5,120   5,120    5,120    5,120
Reserves as months imports                 4.8      3.7     '.0       9.4      11.6
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements
Concessional loans                        ..
DAC                                     ..
OPEC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans
Official export credits                 ..
I BROD
Other multilateral                      ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt
Debt service
Total service payments            ..       ..
Interest                       ..       ..       ..
Payments as % exports GNFS        ..       ..     5.0     7,8/a   10.0/a
Average interest rate on new
loans (x)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OP BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit                                                         ($ millions)
Number    Year   Borrower               Purpose          Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2021       1981   People's Republic   University
1167                of China              Development  100.0  100.0        133.6
1261       1982   People's Republic   Agricultural
of China              Development            60.0       42.5
2207       1982   People's Republic   Ports              124.0      -      124.0
of China
1297      1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and            -    75.4       70.4
of China              Research
2226       1982   People's Republic   Industrial          40.6   30.0        67.7
1313                of China              Credit
2231       1983   People's Republic   Daqing             162.4      -       160.0
of China             Petroleum
2252       1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan          100.8      -       100.0
of China             Petroleum
2261       1983   People's Republic   Heilongjiang    35.3   45.0           80.0
1347                of China              Land Recla-
mation
1411      1983   People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV    -    85.0            85.0
of China             University
1412      1983   People's Republic   Technical              -    10.0        9.8
of China             Cooperation
1417      1984   People's Republic   Rubber                 -   100.0      100.0
/a       of China              Development
2382       1984   People's Republic   Lubuge Hydro-  145.4          -      145.4
/b       of China              electric
1984   Peoples Republic    Railway           220.0      -       220.0
/c       of China
Td
/e
Total                                 708.5  505.4   1,118.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                708.5  505.4
Total undisbursed                             704.4  414.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1984)
None
/a  Signed on January 5, 1984, but not yet effective.
/b  Signed on March 12, 1984, but not yet effective.
/c  Signed on April 13, 1984, but not yet effective.
7d  Credit of SDR 47.2 million ($50.0 million) for the Rural Credit Project
approved on April 24, 1984, but not yet signed.
/e  Credit of SDR 80.2 million ($85.0 million) for the Rural Health and
Medical Education Project approved on May 8, 1984, but not yet signed.
Note:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EDUCALTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                                      6 months
(b)  Project prepared by                                The Government
(c) Date of first mission to consider
the project                                      January 1983
(d)  Appraisal mission                            J:tly 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations                         May 1984
(f)  Planned credit effectiveness                       October 1984
Section II; Special Association Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  the project would be monitored and evaluated annually on the basis
of tracer surveys and agreed project indicators (para. 63);
(b)  an International Advisory Panel would be established not later than
December 31, 1984, and maintained with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 66);
(c) a Review Committee would be maintained with attached International
Advisory Panel (para. 66);
(d) the Project Office established under Credit 1297-CHA would be
maintained (para. 66); and
(e)  fellowship candidates would be selected in accordance with selection
criteria satisfactory to the Bank Group and those chosen for over-
seas study would receive language training as needed at the language
center established under Credit 1297--CHA (para. 66).



IBD 17527R
tAl  -  01   -  tO                                     itO'                                     1180            -                          iON                                                             APRIL /9/a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARI 18
SO0V I ET                       U N  I 0  N
v-'-'-'                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~0N6                     2~
M     0      N       0      0      L      I     AAI
4   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-,/~ ~~    AI    C 
//~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ io-p  r_Q L/ON  G                                                                                                       DEMOC)RATIC
I/o hot                        Srem/ao/ ~~ pPEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LHh.  S                                                                                                                                          OP KO R EA
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                          N EI                                                                  2C 0                     /®           3                                            7G  1 
pr' >  At//A/I Ut                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~PYdNGVANG
/0                    -4Do/ian       0t0.i'"/®~~~~~~~~(eSEO//                             '   ®TOK/(Y
'~~~  t.                                                 'p               /          ®yno~~~~~~~~~~~on    2  / ~~~~~~~                                0"  APP/Ox            K~~~~~~~~~. REPUBLIC
N,                              'p         I    ~     ~    ~    ~     ®       >KEBE/g-' .TT'-D                                          OF  OREZ
Th,I  p h-   b-1, plp-dpN,                                                                                                                                      "' 'by       dil                                                                 '
The A',nd ooo I tInt noo,nntnI'e                                                                                       Ci tm
'nt'.nnt/o-,W,,/ntan8k                                           AGCA/U NO                                                                                                       c       n. 
No ,,tn, natnoAt'111'Fotn,n                                                                                                                                                   ®    .Zh,-oh-
Ca-noon! ,n  Sn nonono,totnno                                                                               to~~~~~~    ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~ ~~~        ~      ~~~ *"A'4-   >i Zbngto  " N A N
t.. ....snnttttn, -o,an/,nn -p90                                                                                                                '    OA9}/                  ECAIt'                      A //
.,.-oi. fto  to noInIp  no/ho                                           H0t"/                                                                             nfi,/ A,                                            Oao/~
IOO' /OtflW- t,/CP/odC N-'                                                                                                    "                "'Ap NH5
/o,noa'coo, /ot/c Cnpnttn                         I Z                              4                                 ""'G                                                                    Co ®I
K"                            i')~~,-                 ~~'an/Ind
ont j..nnntont nfl tim ia-gal n/otto                                                ""0,                 '0.         0n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/               A/tHai®4' 
o~~~'an,oononntyflnoot/'                                     U                                                 "a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'a-~~~~~/  C  AN>NUL             fI    A
ottd0tntooo/nnaconPtaitnent  .                             "-0                                                            ""'p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
tnnhtonnonn,C"H                          I N CA       0/N- t                                                                                                               A-       /.n
SECOND  AGRICULTURAL                                                                                                                                      nAN'FAtap
EDUCATION    PROJECT                                                                                  Op                        ®/ IJ///   N,tI 0                               'a-
CCO,ECT  NbTnS/  /T/ONS AN00   INC 0,T/ES                                                        F(t-/              S                       C,p            o-",fA
N-on  Aaaia/an C. nYU T N/AN                                                                              '-'      '' 
GUANO/It          eAN//DON/I           /70
.......                                               DEPAOCRATIC,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'O                                                                       KLOE/R
I  -  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"> ~ ~          ~            ~            ~           ~            PI   PPIE



---



