OIFFICKA
i r tT             DIT NUMBER 1500 CHA
*                Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1500 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   I          , 1984, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATION-%L DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equiva-
lent to forty-five million three hundred thousand dollars
($45,300,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MAAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Fisheries;
(b) "Project Agricultural Colleges (Group A)," "Project
Agricultural Colleges (Group B)", "Project Training and Extension
Support Centers," and "Project Technical Schools" mean the insti-
tutions listed in Parts A, B, C and D, respectively, of the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; "Project Agricultural Colleges"
means Project Agricultural Colleges (Group A) and Project Agri-
cultural Colleges (Group B); and "Project Institutions" means all
of the institutions listed in said Annex, collectively;
(c) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment;
(d) "Agricultural Education and Research Project" means the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Association, dated November 16,
1982, entered into for the Agricultural Education and Research
Project (Credit No. 1297-CHA), as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time; and
(e) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such 'term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all Schedules to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to twenty-two million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 22,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a special account in the
Bank of China on terms ai,d conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-4-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1994, and ending
February 15, 2034, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MAAF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, educational, engineering, agricul-
tural, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) In order to coordinate and assist in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall continue to maintain:
(i) the Project Office established in accordance with
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the Development Credit
Agreement for the Agricultural Education and Re-
search Project, with functions and responsibili-
ties acceptable to the Association, and with
qualified and experienced staff; and
(ii) the Review Committee established for purposes of
the Project, including representatives from the


﻿-5-
Project Institutions, to be assiszed by an Inter-
national Advisory Panel, to be appointed by
December 31, 1984 or such later date as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
by said Project Office, comprised of experts in
various disciplines to provide advice on technical
matters to the Review Commitee, both with func-
tions and responsibilities acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts and special-
ists whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such experts
and specialists to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the


﻿-6-
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
upon request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes                    .
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the Project
Office referred to in Section 3.01 (b)(i) of this Agreement to
select candidates for fellowships under the Project in accordance
with selection criteria satisfactory to the Association; and (b)
provide language training, as needed, for candidates so selected
at the foreign language training facilities established under the
Agricultural Education and Research Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agenries of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent audiuors ac94ptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expendi-
tures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the facilities and
equipment provided under the Project to be operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and educational policies and practices,
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,


﻿sufficient funds, services and other resources required for such
purposes.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, until December 31,
1992, or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Associationr annually monitor and evaluate the progress
made by Project Institutions towards project objectives in light
of project indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Agricultural Col-
leges and Project Technical Schools to carry out annual surveys
of their graduates to determine, inter alia, the relationship
between academic preparation and actual employment, commencing
with the graduates in 1984 and ending with the graduates in 1992,
or such later dates as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this
Agreement;
(b) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, excepting only the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date   0       ; --            , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRG
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
*I
ByOl
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the procee%s of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount         Amount
of the         of the
Credit          Loan
Allocated       Allocated
(Expressed      (Expressed         % of
in SDR         in Dollar      Expenditures
Category      Equivalent)     Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment       14,980,000      30,600,000    100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures, 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory cost)
and 75% of lo-
cal expendi-
tures for other
items procured
locally (in-
voiced cost)
(2) Civil works        480,000         500,000    20%
for Part A.2(c)
of the Project
(3) Specialist       1,670,000       3,700,000    100%
services
(4) Overseas         3,000,000       6,200,000    100%
fellow-
ships
(5) Books and          370,000       1,000,000    100% of for-
instructional                                eign expendi-
materials                                    tures


﻿- 11 -
Amount         Amount
of the         of the
Credit          Loan
Allocated       Allocated
(Expressed      (Expressed         % of
in SDR         in Dollar      Expenditures
Category      Equivalent)     Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Initial          1,500,000                    Amoint due pur-
deposit                                      suant to Sec-
in Special                                   tion 2.02 (b)
Account                                      of this Agree-
to pre-                                      ment
finance
items
under
Cate-
gories (1),
(3), (4) and
(5) above
(7) Fee                                112,968    Amount due
under Section
2.05 of the
Loan Agree-
ment
(8) Unallocated                      3,187;032
TOTAL          22,000,000      45,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that the


﻿- 12 -
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall not be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any
Category decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such Category as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and
the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association or the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (a)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association or the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (b) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under  such   Category  may  continue  until  all   expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditure for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan, and the Association or
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement or the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit or the
Loan as, in the Association's or the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to expand the number and
improve the technical skills of professional and middle-level
personnel in the agricultural sector through assistance to
agricultural colleges, technical schools and other educational
facilities, broadening the role of agricultural colleges as
community and regional resources and developing training for
agricultural technicians.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Agricultural Colleges
1.   Increasing enrollment, improving the quality of instruction,
and improving management at the Project Agricultural Colleges
(Group A) through a program of:
(a) construction, renovation and equipping of new educa-
tional facilities, including laboratories and classrooms, and
provision of instructional materials; and
(b) providing: (i) local training, overseas fellowships and
specialist services to assist teaching staff in improving their
professional qualifications; and (ii) short-term local and over-
seas fellowships, and specialist services, to assist administra-
tive staff in improving their management capability.
2.   Introducing new specializations and postgraduate programs,
expanding the research and extension support activities and
establishing and operating modern library and food science
facilities at the Project Agricultural Colleges (Group B),
through a program of:
(a) construction, renovation and equipping of libraries and
laboratories, and provision of research materials;
(b) providing overseas fellowships, and specialist ser-
vices, to assist library staff and staff teaching in new areas in
upgrading professional skills; and
(c) establishing a model library at Beijing Agricultural
University and a model food science institute at Central China


﻿- 14 -
Agricultural College, including construction and equipping of the
facilities necessary therefor, and providing local and overseas
fellowships, and specialist services, to train library and food
science staff.
B.   Training Extension and Support Centers
Expano?ing the training capacity and improving the curriculum
at the Pru"ect Training Extension and Support Centers, through a
program of:
1.   construction, renovation and equipping of training facili-
ties, including libraries, classrooms, and laboratories; and
2.    providing local and overseas fellowships, and specialist
services to assist extension center staff in upgrading profes-
sional skills.
C.   Agricultural Technical Schools
Increasing enrollment, improving the quality of instruction,
and improving management at the Project Technical Schools,
through a program of:
1.   construction,  renovation   and  equipping  of   educational
facilities; and
2.   providing local and overseas fellowships, and specialist
services, to assist teaching staff in upgrading their profes-
sional skills, and overseas visits, and specialist services, to
assist administrative staff in planning the development of
agricultural technical schools.
D.   Educational Support Facilities
1.   Expanding  the number and frequency, and      improving  the
quality, of broadcast educational programs in agriculture by
providing audio production equipment, local and overseas staff
training and specialist services to MAAF's Central Agricultural
Broadcast School.
2,   Increasing the production capacity of MAAF's Agricultural
Film Studio by constructing and equipping a video studio, and
providing local and overseas fellowships, and specialist serv-
ices, to train staff in video studio engineering and production.


﻿- 15 -
3.   Increasing the supply of agricultural education teaching
materials by constructing, and equipping the printing plant at
MAAF's Publishing House and providing specialist services to
improve color printing quality.
E.   Evaluation and Planning
Improving and assisting through provision of overseas fel-
lowships, specialist services and equipment: (1) the evaluation
of current investments in agricultural education, including those
included in the Project; and (2) the planning and preparation of
future investments in agricultural education, in particular, in-
creased investments similar to those under Parts B and C of the
Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 16 -
Annex to Schedule 2
Project Institutions
A.   Project Agricultural Colleges (Group A)
1.   Beijing Agricultural Mechanization College, Beijing
2.   Dalian Fisheries College, Dalian, Liaoning
3.   Shihezi Agricultural College, Shihezi, Xinjiang
4.   Nanjing Forestry College, Nanjing, Jiangsu
5.   Northeast Forestry College, Harbin, Heilongjiang
6.   Wuhan Hydraulic and Electrical Engineering College,
Wuhan, Hubei
7.   Chengdu Meteorology College, Chengdu, Sichuan
8.   Guangxi Agricultural College, Nanning, Guangxi
9.   Inner  Mongolia   Agriculture  and   Animal  Husbandry
College, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia
10.   Northeast Agricultural College, Harbin, Heilongjiang
11.   Shandong Agricultural College, Taian, Shandong
12.   Zhejiang Agricultural University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang
B.   Project Agricultural Colleges (Group B)
1.   Nanjing Agricultural College, Nanjing, Jiangsu
2.   Central China Agricultural College, Wuhan, Hubei
3.   South China Agricultural College, Guangzhou, Guangdong
4.   Northwestern Agricultural College, Xian, Shaanxi
5.   Southwestern Agricultural College, Chongqing, Sichuan
6.   Shenyang Agricultural College, Shenyang, Liaoning


﻿- 17 -
7.   Beijing Forestry College, Beijing
8.   East China Technical University of Water Resources,
Nanjing, Jiangsu
9.   Shanghai Aquatic Products College, Shanghai
10.   Nanjing Meteorological College, Nanjing, Jiangsu
11.   Beijing Agricultural University, Beijing
C.   Project Training and Extension Support Centers
Training and extension support centers established at:
1.   Anhui Agricultural College, Hefei, Anhui
2.   Henan Agricultural College, Zhengzhou, Henan
3.   Hunan Agricultural College, Changsha, Hunan
4.   Jiangsu Agricultural University, Yangchou, Jiangsu
5.   Jiangxi Agricultural University, Nanchang, Jiangxi
6.   Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin
7.   Central China Agricultural College, Wuhan, Hubei
8.   Northeast Agricultural College, Harbin, Heilongjiang
D.   Project Technical Schools
1.   Beijing Agricultural Technical School, Beijing
2.   Changji   Agricultural  Technical   School,   Changji,
Xinjiang
3.   Changsha Agricultural Technical School, Changsha, Hunan
4.   Heilongjiang Animal Husbandry School, Shuang Cheng,
Heilongjiang
5.   Hongxinglong Technical School, Jixian, Heilongjiang


﻿- 18 -
6.   Guangxi  Agricultural  Mechanization  School, Wuming,
Guangxi
7.   Shandong Aquatic School, Yantai, Shandong
8.   Suzhou Agricultural Technical School, Suzhou, Jiangsu
9.   Wenjiang  Agricultural   Technical  School,  Wenjiang,
Sichuan
10.  Yellow   River  Water   Conservancy  Technical  School,
Kaifeng, Henan
11.   Lanzhou Meteorology Technical School, Lanzhou, Gansu
12.   Nanjing Forestry Technical School, Nanjing, Jiangsu
E.   Project Institutions for Part D of the Project
1.   Central Agricultural Broadcast School, Beijing
2.   Central Agricultural Film Studio, Beijing
3.   Agricultural Printing Plant, Beijing


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding shall be grouped to the extent
possible so as to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in China
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in China
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in China equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid.of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 21 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
2.   Civil works contracts for Part A.2(c) of the Project shall
be awarded in accordance with procedures and on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Books and instructional materials to be financed under Cate-
gory (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement may be procured under contracts negotiated with
suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 22 -
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (3),
(4) and (5) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association or the Bank at such intervals as the Association or
the Bank shall specify, the Association or the Bank shall further
so withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and depo-
sit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to payments made
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures, but only to
the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of the initial deposit. Except as the Association or the Bank may
otherwise agree, each such deposit after the initial deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Categories


﻿-24-
(1), (3), (4) and (5) and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit into the Special Account after the initial deposit, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association or the Bank in respect
of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account
such documents and other evidence as the Association or the Bank
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made 'by
the Association or the Bank: (a) when the Association or the Bank
shall have determined at any time that all further withdrawals
can be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement; or (b) unless
otherwise agreed by the Association or the Bank when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to
Categories (1), (3), (4) and (5), minus the unwithdrawn amount of
any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association or
the Bank and of any special commitment entered into by the Asso-
ciation or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions or the -General Conditions applicable to the Loan
Agreement with respect to items to be financed under Categories
(1), (3), (4) and (5), shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1), (3), (4) and
(5) and withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining un-
withdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Categories (1), (3),
(4) and (5) shall follow such procedures as the Association or
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower and shall,
except as the Association or the Bank shall otherwise agree, be
made only after and to the extent the Association or the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at any
time that:


﻿- 25 -
(a) any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association or the
Bank and, unless otherwis- agreed by the Association or the Bank,
prior to any further deposit into the Special Account by the
Association or the Bank, ueposit into the Special Account or, if
the Association or the Bark shall so request, refund to the Asso-
ciation or the Bank an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association or
the Bank, and unless otherwise agreed by the Association or the
Bank, refund to the Association or the Bank such amount then
outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
1981  .
FOR SECRETARY


