Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9188
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1203-YAR)
DECEMBER 12, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency        Yemeni Rial
Year                                       Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average                          US$ 1 = YR 4.50
Completion Year Average                         US$ 1 = YR 9.50
ABBREVIATIONS
ASS         -         Agricultural Secondary School
CPO         -         Central Planning Organization
DTC         -         District Training Center
ERDC        -         Educational Research and Development Center
FOE         -         Faculty of Engineering (University of Sana'a)
GTZ         -         Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
MOE         -         Ministry of Education
PCR         -         Project Completion Report
PIU         -         Project Implementation Unit
PTTI        -         Primary Teacher Training Institute
SAR         -         Staff Appraisal Report
SBU         -         School Building Unit
TA          -         Technical Assistance
TSS         -         Technical Secondary School
TTSSF       -         Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplement Fund
UNDP        -         United Nations Development Program
USAID       -         United States Agency for International Development
VTC         -         Vocational Training Center
YAR         -         Republic of Yemen
(formerly Yemen Arab Republic)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Officl CA Oivgctcustwal
Opwatimas Evakaati
December 12, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN -
Fourth Education Proiect - (Credit 1203-YAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Republic of Yemen - Fourth Education
Project (Credit 1203-YAR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has e reatricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discsed without World lank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLET1ON REPORT
REPUBLIC QF YEMZN
FOURTH EDUCATIOM PROJECT
(CREDIT 1203-YAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pace No.
Preface  ..................................................................                      i
Evaluation Summary                ......................i.......................                l
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE -
Project  Identity            .........................1....................... 
Project Background                       ..1..................   I
Project Objectives and Components ..... ...............                                          2
Project Design and Organization  ..................................                              3
Project Implementation  ......................................                                   4
Project Results              .......................................                             7
Project Sustainability    ..................................... .                                9
IDA Performance                   .................................................            10
Borrower Performance                     ............................................           10
Borrower-IDA Relationship  ..............    .                 .........................       11
Consulting Services                      .......................  11
Project Documentation and Data  ...............                 ..      .................      11
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III  ........                              12
Evaluation of IDA's Performance and Major Lessons Learned  ... .....    12
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and
Major Lessons Learned              .....................        ......................    12
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans  ....... ................                    .......................         14
Project Timetable  .......           .................5.......................                  i
Credit Disbursements  .......            ...............          ......................        17
Project  Implementation  ...... ...............8.....................                           i
Project Costs and Financing  .................                ..       ..................       19
Project Results  ................................................                               22
Status of Loan Covenants                       ........................................         24
Use of IDA Resources  .......            ...............          ......................        28
This document has a restricted distribution ard may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lbdnk authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
ANNEXES
1 - Participants in Completion Mission  ........... ...........   31
2 - Record of Project Progress Reports Submitted .... .........   32
3 - Table 1. Planned and Actual Completion of Civil Works,
Furniture and Equipment Procurement .... .......   33
Table 2. Planned and Actual Utilization of Technical
Assistance by Institution ....   .................    34
Table 3.  Instructional Staff in Project Institutions ....  35
Table 4. Planned and Actual Enrollments and Outputs
of Project Institutions/Programs .... ..........   36
Table 5. Civil Works Procurement Schedule as
Agreed Between IDA and Government .... ........    37



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SEPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1203-YARI
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Education
project in the Yemen Arab Republic, for which an IDA Credit 1203-YAR in the
amount of SDR 10.2 million was approved on January 28, 1982. The credit was
closed on December 31, 1989, two years behind schedule. It was 99.9%
disbursed and an amount of SDR 7,139.12 was cancelled with effect on January
16, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
The preparation of the report was facilitated by data collected before
and during IDA supervision of the YAR's ongoing Education and Training
projects in February/March 1990. The PCR is based, inter alia, on information
contained in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda and information gathered in the country.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURT!, EDUCATION PROJECT
ICREDIT 1203-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The objectives of the project were to: (a) create an institutional
capability to assist the Ministry of Education (MOE) and others to resolve
qualitative, operational and programm'ng problems of the country's educational
system and to provide guidance for planned change of the system; (b)
accelerate the Yemenization of the teaching force, (c) increase the outputs
from existing Vocational Training Centers (VTCs); and (d) meet the deficit of
Yemeni engineers through a low-cost in-country training program. To achieve
theee objectives, the project included: (a) the establishment of an
Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC), (b) boarding facilities at
two vocational training and two teacher training institutes; (c) a teacher
salary supplement fund; and (d) establishment of the Faculty of Engineering
(FOE) at the University of Sana'a. To assist implementation, the project also
included supp-rt for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
Imolementation Ex]erience
2.      Project implementation was satisfactory despite delays of about two
years, and its main components were completed at an opportune time to address
critical issues in YAR's rapidly evolving education system. Items of specific
interest included:
(a)   Fellowship Training.  Implementation of this program would
probably have been more efficient if it had been administered and
supervised by an experienced technical assistance agency/contractor;
(b)   Exoert Services.  Relying heavily on short-term specialists to
implement specialist services programs through a new institution can
have serious adverse consequences for the achievement of project
objectives;



- iv -
(C)   Delaying factors with respect to the Faculty of Engineering
included in particular uncertainties in finding financing for the
construction of all ita facilities, because the project included funds
for only one out of the three engineering departments envisaged (para
19);
(d)   The Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplementary Fund was found to be
ineffective after being evaluated in 1984 as planned, and therefore
discontinued (para. 24); and
(e)   The Project Implementation Unit was appropriately strengthened
and functioned well (para 25).
Results
3.     The ERDC is fully equipped and operational.  Twenty-three researchers
are completing their training overseas and should return by October 1991.
Their delayed return, coupled with unclear research policies within ERDC, has
diminished ERDC's utility as MOE's principal research facility.
4.     The Faculty of Enaineerina is in full operation, enrolling some 1,430
students in excellent facilities and well-designed programs in three
departments. This may be compared with appraisal estimates of about 1,000
students for the three departments.
5.     The boardina facilities at the VTCs and PTTIs have contributed to
increased enrollments at these institutions.
Sustainabilitv
6.     The sustainability of this project hinges on two factors: (a) the
staffing and the strength of future linkages between the MOE and ERDC; and (b)
the ability of FOE to secure local and bilateral financing to hire and retain
qualified teaching staff to produce the numbers of qualified engineers needed
for the economic development of YAR.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
7.     The project experience provides the following main lessons:
(a)   Fellowships Trainina.  The project suffered costly
implementation delays due to the lack of planning, organization and
monitoring of counterpart training, particularly at the ERDC. In
retrospect, it would have been more efficient to implement and monitor
this aspect of the project's technical assistance by enlisting an
experienced management agency to administer and supervise the
project's fellowships.



(b) Expert Services. It was observed that the ERDC did not use its
full allocation of short-term specialists and the few who were
utilized were recruited after considerable delay. As a result,
project funded studies ror the institution's work program were
substantially delayed. This experience has prompted our observation
that a specialist services program, relying heavily on short-term
expertise in a new institution, can seriously impede the achievement
of project objectives.
(c) Financing Covenant. The Goverrnment had difficulty in obtaining
the bilateral financing required to fund the FOE component of the
project by the date stipulated in the credit agreement. As a result,
an amendment to the credit agreement had to be authorized by IDA. In
retrospect, we believe that instead of a dated covenant to ensure the
timely provision of credit funds, it would have been more realistic to
prepare a contingency plan for the phased out execution of works, in
the event that the required cofinancing was not forthcoming by a
specified otage of the project's implementation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YV9_
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1203-YAR1
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
Project Name     -      Fourth Education Project
Credit Number    -      1203-YAR
RVP Unit:        -      Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country Department III
Country:         -      The Yemen Arab Republic
Sector:          -      Education and Training
Subsector:       -      Engineering & Vocational Education,
Teacher Training & Educ.Research
B. Proiect Background
1.     Sector Development Objectives.  At the time of appraisal .' October
1980, the Government's First Five-Year Development Plan reflected a need to
urgently develop an educated workforce with the necessary skills to respond to
the demands of a changing economy. Accordingly, educational development
planning and IDA's response to the Government's priorities, were directed
toward expanding basic schooling and promoting training programs to meet the
need for semi-skilled manpower. The issues which affected YAR's educational
development were mainly (a) a rapid expansion of the primary education system
that took place at the expense of efficiency and quality; (b) the undesirable
effects of a large expatriate teaching force and an inadequately trained
Yemeni one; (c) inequity of schooling opportunity by region and gender; and
(d) higher education, characterized by the absence of applied science and
technology programs.
2.     Policy Context.  Specific policy priorities that had a bearing on the
project related to: (a) the replacement of foreign manpower by trained Yemenis
at all occupational levels (virtually all high-level manpower and 85 percent
of the country's primary teaching force were foreign at the time of
appraisal); (b) strengthening MC's capacity to set sound education policies
and administer programs for quality improvement; and (c) expansion and
improvement of vocational and technical education programs to alleviate
technical manpower shortages at all levels.
3.     While some progress had been made in improving primary teacher
training programs, higher education in YAR was at the time of appraisal,



-2-
characterized by a virtual absence of applied science and technology programs
and there was a major demand for degree courses in civil engineering. The
Government had been meeting the demand for engineers by recruiting expatriates
and funding out-of-country trainin, for Yemeni engineering students, both of
which were costly: the average coat of sending a secondary school graduate
overseas to complete engineering studies was about US$ 90,000 (based on
$15,000 per year) while the annual cost cf an expatriate engineer was about
US$36,000.
4.     Linkages to Macro Policy Objectives.  The proJPLt was thus aimed at
addressing two critical links to macro-economic policy objectives: (a) the
need to create self-sufficiency in high level manpower production and (b) the
development of a policy analysis capability for the MOE.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Components
5.     Proiect Obiectives.  The objectives of the project were complex and
ambitious. It would:
(a)   assist tne MOE to resolve qualitative, operational and
programming problems in managing educational change by
establishing tiha Education Research and Development Center
(ERDC);
(b)   create an in-country capability to produce engineers by
establishing the first phase of the Faculty of Engineering (FOE)
at Sana'a Uriversity;
(c)   improve the supply of trained teachers and skilled workers from
rural areas by constructing boarding facilities at VTCs (Taiz
and Hodeida) and PTTIs (Ibb and Amran);
(d)   attract qualified teacher trainers by creating a salary
supplement fund; and
(e)   support the creation of permanent school construction capacity
by providing expert assistance and equipment for the PIU.
6.     Proiect Comonents.  The project included:
(a)   construction, furnishing, equipping and technical assistance for
the ERDC;
(b)   establishment of FOE at the University of Sana'a through the
provision of building designs, civil works, equipment and
furniture for the civil engineering department, and associated
fellowships for training future teachers;
(c)   construction of boarding facilities at two VTCs and two PTTIs;
(d)   a salary supplementary fund for teacher trainers; and



-3-
(a)   technical assistance to the PIU through the continued financing
of expert salaries and equipment costs.
D.  Proiect Design and Organization
7.     Through its focus on education quality and university degree level
programs, the direction of this project represented a radical departure from
IDA's earlier and subsequent lending strategies, which focussed on primary
teacher training, and non-formal and industrial skills training. Despite its
disparate components, the project was (with the possible exception of items
discussed in paras. 10 and 11) effectively designed and well prepared. Its
concepts were clearly defined and understood by the institutions and agencies
*       responsible for implementation, and the project was on a scale commensurate
with the absorptive capacity of the sector.
8.     The design concepts underlying tha individual components were
appropriate at time of preparation and appraisal, and were as follows:
(a)   ERDC.  This project component was designed in support of an
institution which was potentially of critical importance. The
ERDC was designed as a semi-independent organization,
responsible to its Governing Board of Trustees under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Education. It was to act as a
research institution and think tank, capable of carrying out
analytical work and studies in the field of education without
being enmeshed in MOE's day-to-day administrative matters. It
was therefore well positioned to provide independent policy
advice on educational matters to the Ministry of Education and
to other concerned bodies;
(b)   FOE.  The Faculty of Engineering was conceived as a cost-
effective way to increase the number of locally trained
engineering graduates at a modest cost.  Accordingly this
component supported long-term government policies to reduce the
drain on national budgets through overseas training of
engineers;
(c)   Student Boarding.  A third major project component addressed
equity through the provision of boarding places constructed at
Vocational Training Centers and Primary Teacher Training
Institutes financed under earlier IDA projects. The concept was
to enable students in rural areas to benefit from training at
these institutions;
(d) The design concept underlying the Salary SupDvlementarv Fund was
to accelerate the training of teacher trainers by providing
incentives equivalent to 20% of their base salary. It was
anticipated that 210 future teacher trainers, to be educated at
Eastern Michigan University with USAID support, would not stay
at teacher training institutes without such incentives in place.



- 4 -
9.     In terms of organization, the project had an appropriate blend of
centralization and decentralization. The PIU, appropriately strengthened
through provisions of the project, was responsibie for architectural designs,
procurement, and overall project administration. Desired decentralization was
achieved in terms of training program designs, curricula and implementation of
project studies.
10.    In retrospect, the project design may be faulted for not establishing
a strong administrative mechanism to monitor .nd facilitate implementation of
technical assistance, especially fellowships. This weakness contributed to
delays in the preparation of students foL overseas training and unnecessarily
prolonged their overseas training. These delays were costly because the
students spent on average about 12 months (33%) in excess of the budgeted time
mainly in completing language training courses before their actual study
programs commenced.   As a remedial measure, both ERDC and FOE started using
the services of AMIDEAST and the British Council as training agents during the
later part of project implementation (mid-1986) to ensure better
implementation of their fellowship program.
11.    Article IV, Section 4.07 of the Development Credit Agreement contained
the covenant that in order to complete the development of the Faculty of
Engineering, the Government would provide all the necessary financial
resources on its own, or from unspecified bilateral resources no later than by
FY1984. When the Government was unable to do so within the stipulated time
period, the Credit Agreement was amended in October 1983 to provide the
Government with additional time to secure the funding for investments which it
did with its own resources.
E. Proiect Implementation
12.    The project was originally scheduled to be completed in mid-1987 after
a five and a half year implementation period. By that time, about 85 percent
of the project had been completed, and all project items were at least
partially operational. The remainder of the project was completed over the
subsequent two years. During implementation, a close collaboration and
cooperation developed between the PIU, MOE, ERDC and the FOE with respect to
the preparation of architectural designs and for the procurement and
installation of project financed equipment and furnishings. Overall, the
project was well implemented and, despite the lengthy implementation delays of
the FOE, its main components were completed at an opportune time to address
critical issues in YAR's rapidly evolving education system. Except for the
increase in costs of the FOE buildings, the project costs (see Table 5) were
close to the original estimates. The increase in project costs from $18.17m
to $24.90m is mainly due to (i) an increase in the construction program by
$4.9m so that the FOE could establish Departments of Electrical Engineering
and Architecture; and (ii) additional financing amounting to US$l.6m to
finance equipment and furniture for these departments, which was provided by
the GTZ and the British Government. These increases caused local costs to
increase (by US$0.97m) while foreign costs increased by US$5.7m.



13.    ERDC.   The construction of ERDC was completed only seven months
behind schedule, and at costs close to original estimates. The facilities are
well-designed and constructed, although at present somewhat under-utilized
because of delays in the completion of fellowship programs (para.16).
14.     There were major delays (60 months) in the completion of ERDC's
equipment procurement because of late and sometimes piecemeal identification
of its equipment needs, especially in computer related fields.
15.    ERDC management's reluctance to use the short term experts originally
included in the project design 2/ adversely affected project implementation in
.that the center did not become exposed to all the educational research
concepts originally envisaged. Savings generated from the shortfall were used
for fellowships (when completed in late 1991, 37 researchers will have been
trained under the project, compared with an appraisal target of 23).
16. ERDC's fellowship training took much longer than anticipated at
appraisal (Annex 3, Table 2) because of delays in identifying suitable
candidates and preparing them for their training (para. 10). originally, the
fellowships training was to have commenced in early 1982, but out of ERDC's
thirty-seven long term fellowship recipients, only six had departed by late
1984. The majority left in mid-1987, close to the original Closing Date of
the project. This situation resulted in implementation delays and delayed the
completion of their study programs beyond the project Closing Date, which
further exacerbated ERDC's shortage of qualified researchers.
17.    With respect to its priority work program, which had been agreed at
appraisal, ERDC completed most of its four studies, albeit well beyond
original target dates of mid-1983 or earlier as follows (Part III, Table 9
discusses their impact on future projects):
(a)   The two studies on (i) enrollment dynamics, and (ii) teacher
supply and retention were completed and made available to the
MOE in mid-1985. The conclusions of these studies facilitated
the preparation of the Teacher Training project (Credit 1773-
YAR);
(b)   Because of delays in getting the vocational and technical
education study underway, the scope of the review and revision
of the curricula for teacher training and vocational training
institutions was reduced to include only the teacher training
portion of that study and was used for developing the curricula
for the senior PTTI. The vocational training component of the study was
carried out by GTZ financed consultants during the preparation of Credit 1645-
2/ As shown in Annex 3 - Table 2, only 4 experts out of the planned 17 were
actually hired. These experts were used mainly to provide long term
operational support rather than diversifying and enriching ERDC's work program
through short-term consultants.



-6-
YAR (the Technical Training Project);
(c)   Tne school inventory study was expanded in scope to become a
full-scale school inventory and school mapping project which is
still underway and continues to be sponsored by the Government.
18.    The last two studies were delayed because of (a) lack of advance
planning for data collection, (b) inexperience in costing the studies (in
particular, the school mapping study), and (c) lack of computer facilities to
process collected data (para. 14). An additional contributing delay factor
was ERDC's reluctance to make full use of its resources that were allocated
under the Credit for short-term expert services (para. 15).
19.    Faculty of En@ineerina.  There were major delays of about four years
in completing the construction of the FOE. Delaying factors included in
particular uncertainties in finding financing for the new construction
facilities, which eventually included buildings for the departments of both
civil engineering and electrical engineering _/.   Ultimately the Government
decided to fund the entire FOE construction program from its own resources,
which permitted IDA funds to be used to partially equip the Department of
Electrical Engineering. Because of these delays during a period of rapid
construction cost increases, and a large increase in the construction program,
the cost of the construction of this component (US$8.8 million) far exceeded
the original estimates (US$3.9 million). The exceptionally well-designed and
well built facilities are well utilized with an enrollment far exceeding
appraisal targets (para 29).
20.    The FOE's building facilities are also well equipped and furnished.
Although there were delays in obtaining funding for constructing the
facilities, bilateral support was eventually obtained from the German and the
UK Governments (about DM 3.0 million and 60,000 pounds sterling) to finance
electrical and civil engineering research and testing equipment, which
supplemented the teaching equipment financed by the IDA Credit.
21.    As indicated in Annex 3, Table 2, the planned and actual specialist
services and fellowships programs were identical with SAR estimates in terms
of numbers of consultants used and staff trained, but slightly higher in terms
of man-months utilized. Specifically, about 32 more man-months of specialists
time were used than were planned, and about 48 more man-months of fellowship
training was utilized than planned.
22.    A data base at the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
monitors the number of government-supported Yemeni engineering degree students
abroad by discipline and expected date of return, as well as the number of new
students proceeding abroad for engineering studies. Data from this system
would permit cost comparisons between in-country and overseas training. If
the cost (US$14.3 million) of FOE's training facilities (which can accommodate
3/     A department of Architecture has also been created, but is currently
squeezed into the facilities originally designed for the two
engineering departments.



- 7 -
about 1,400 students) is depreciated over (say) 20 years, the per graduate
depreciation cost (for five years) is about US$2,500. If we add to this the
estimated annual public cost of training an engineer in-country (US$10,000 for
a five-year period), the total annual cost per locally trained graduate is
about US$12,500. This may be compared w'th the public cost of providing
fellowships to an engineer abroad at a cost of some US$90,000 for a six-year
period.
23.    Boardina Facilities.  Construction of the boarding facilities for the
VTCs and the PTTIs went smoothly. The well built facilities were completed in
1984 within the original cost estimates, after an average delay of only three
months beyond SAR estimates. Three of the boarding facilities are being
utilized as originally intended while the VTC at Taiz was absorbed into an
existing technical secondary school.
24.    The Teacher Trainers' Salary Suaglementarv Fund was evaluated by mid-
1984 as stipulated in the Credit Agreement, to determine the effectiveness of
the incentive supplement for teachers. The evaluation report concluded that
the Fund created dissatisfaction among teachers not covered by the Fund, and
the Ministry therefore discontinued the Fund. Subsequently, the MOE
introduced appropriate salary incentives in its budget and (after consultatiol.
with IDA) used the remainder of the Salary Supplement Fund to cover the cost
of in-service training for ten teacher trainers who had completed master of
science degree courses overseas.
25.    The Proiect Imylem_entatin Unit was appropriately strengthened through
technical assistance support and provision of equipment for the unit. The
unit was responsible for: (a) designing ERDC and the boarding facilities; (b)
organizing the construction program; (c) procuring furniture and equipment;
(d) keeping records, including accounts; and (e) maintaining liaison with the
various project entities and IDA.
F. Project Results
26.    ERDC.  The ERDC is operational with 54 professional staff and has the
following 12 staffed research units: planning and finance; statistics;
curricula; educational techniques; documents and publishing; teacher training
and preparation; psychology and social research; higher education; school
administration; general education; non-formal education; and school buildings.
ERDC's staffing remains weak, however, because of delays in carrying out its
own staff training program (para 16). Of the 37 researchers whose fellowship
programs were financed under the credit, 23 are still studying abroad.
27.    During the early years of project implementation, ERDC had a good
working relationship with and strong links to the MOE (the Minister of
Education was the Chairman of the ERDC's Governing Board -- para 8.(a)).
Despite staff shortages, approximately 25 research studies have been prepared
for the MOE. Because of their wider interest, some of these studies should be
made available, not only to educational establishments in the country, but
also to bilateral and multilateral organizations to avoid duplication of
effort and to promote recognition of the Center as the Government's principal



agency for educational research. The Center's major ongoing work priority is
an enhancement of the school inventory study, which was funded by the project,
and has now been enlarged to encompass a school mapping project of 200
districts throughout the country. Approximately 400 reports will be prepared
for the MOE before this insitiative is completed. The information will then be
summarized in two reports (a diagnostic report and a future plan report) for
each school district catchment area.
28.      During the later years of project implementation, ERDC has worked
intensively on programs commissioned or used by entities other than the
MOE 4/, with the result that ERDC's work activities have often been perceived
by the MOE as being isolated from the MOE's priority work programs. As a
result, a substantial part of the work that ERDC has carried out is not being
used by the MOE.
29.    Faculty of Enaineerin.  The Faculty of Engineering is fully
operational and enrolled 1,430 students during the first semester of 1989/90.
This may be compared with an enrollment of 35 students in 1983, and appraisal
estimates for a Faculty-wide capacity of 750 to 1,050 students _/.
Departments of civil, electrical and architectural engineering have been
established at a total cost of YR 72 million as compared original appraisal
estimates of about YR 20 million for a department of civil engineering
only 6,, All three departments are operational in well-equipped premises.
The cost overruns were caused by unexpected general cost increases and a
substantial area increase (about 5,500 m2 in the size of the new facilities)
over appraisal estimates due to the addition of a department of electrical
engineering and a department of architecture. The cost overruns (see Table 5
for details of cost estimates) were financed by the Government (for civil
works) and through bilateral funds (for equipment). German bilateral funding
of approximately DM 3 million as well as assistance from the British
Government in the amount of 60,000 pounds sterling was obtained to purchase
equipment and furniture for the electrical engineering department.
30.    The boarding places for the VTCs at Hodeidah and Taiz as well as the
PTTIs at Ibb and Amran were instrumental in increasing enrollments at these
institutions. Specifically, enrollments at the VTCs rose to 484 new students
(from a planned enrollment of 440), even though the Center at Taiz was merged
with a secondary teacher training center, thereby reducing the planned enroll-
ment figure. The number of boarr -r at these institutions was 238 in 1989
compared to 56 in 1983.  For the    Is, new enrollments stood at 1209 students
by late 1988 (compared to a plan of 360 students). Total numbers of boarders
for the two institutions rose to 515 compared to a plan of 216 students.
4/     The school mapping reports are being used by the electricity authority
of Yemen as a basis for designing their distribution network.
5/     The SAR envisaged three departments --  .v'il, electrical and
mechanical engineering.
6/     In US$ terms, the cost difference is much less pronounced, because of
the sharp devaluation of the YR during implementation.



-9-
31.    The Project Implementation Unit is playing a useful role in the
monitoring and implementation of the ongoing education and training projects
in YAR (Education V, VI, and the Technical Training and Teacher Training
projects - Credits 1340, 1470, 1645, 1773-YAR). It also serves as the
Government's school building unit (SBU).
G. Proiect Sustainabilitv
32.    The sustainability of this project hinges on two factors: (a) staffing
and the strength of future linkages between the MOE and ERDC; and (b) the
ability of the FOE to hire and retain qualified teaching staff to produce the
numbers of qualified engineers needed for the economic development of YAR.
These points are further elaborated below.
33. The ERDC. Because of its hitherto weak staffing (para 16), uncertain
work priorities (para 27) and tenuous linkages with the MOE, ERDC needs to
review its operational policies and procedures with a view to securing its
long-term sustainability. At present, the Center sets its work priorities in
relative independence from MOE's priorities. It also competes -- frequently
unsuccessfully -- for work assignments subsequently awarded to researchers at
the Faculty of Education and those in the MOE. In order to become a long-
term, viable entity, the Center needs to strengthen its staff qualifications
and improve its linkages with its main client -- the MOE. This will include
in particular:
(a)   enticing overseas trainees to return to and remain with the ERDC
by providing a meaningful and interesting work-program upon
their return;
(b)   helping government agencies, including in particular the MOE
identify priority work programs and studies within the education
sector that are of particular relevance to the country's
educational and economic development;
(c)   assisting MOE (and the Faculty of Education) in carrying out
technical analyses of the above priority work programs and
studies, thereby enabling the MOE make the necessary political
decisions and establishing ERDC's reputation as the country's
premier and unbiased research facility for the education sector;
and
(d)   securing ERDC's financial viability through implementation of
the above research contracts with the MOE, thereby ensuring a
steady income stream and a commitment for continued government
funding for the center.
34.    Faculty of Enuineerinc.   The FOE is by now a well established
institution with an enrollment exceeding appraisal estimates by a substantial
margin (para 29). The Faculty attracts a large student body, but in order to
safeguard institutional quality, future enrollments must be controlled by



- 10 -
restricting the large number of admissions each semester. If unchecked,
overcrowding will inevitably reduce quality of graduates, which will crucially
affect the future viability of the Faculty. One initial indicator is,
however, good: the 38 graduates of the FOE have all obtained good employment
in a mix of private and government enterprises.
35.    The Faculty continues to be highly dependent on foreign aid.  Thirty-
one of its expatriate staff are being funded by the State of Kuwait. The
services of these foreign experts will be required at least until the full
complement of 25 engineering teachers return from ongoing training overseas in
late 1991. (Ten of these were financed under the IDA credit). Bilateral aid
is being used to train future teachers, including those needed for the
establishment of an otherwise unfunded department of mechanical engineering.
36.    To augment its operational budget, the FOE provides minor consulting
services, mainly materials testing. It should however also improve its
contacts with local industries to further strengthen consulting opportunities,
to ensure the adequacy of on-the-job training, and to better position its
graduates for relevant jobs.
H. IDA Performance
37.    Perhaps the most note-worthy feature of IDA's performance in the early
stages of the project was the development, appraisal and acceptance of a
heterogeneous project design, which nevertheless resulted in the completion of
several high priority, quality components. During implementation, IDA
performed well by responding promptly to requests from the Government to: (a)
terminate an unsuccessful component (para 24), (b) change the financing
pattern for the FOE (para 19), and (c) finance equipment for non-project
activities, supplementary to the original objectives (para 19). Requests for
Closing Date extensions and various house-keeping items were also handled
promptly. Project supervision was generally timely and there was good staff
continuity, especially during the later stages of the project, which
facilitated follow-up between identification of issues and recommendations for
effective solutions. Staff continuity was also important with respect to
actions which required prompt IDA actions, such as reviews of procurement
documents, approvals for expenditures, and advice on improving the PIU's daily
operations.
38.    On the downside, IDA may be faulted for not persuading ERDC of the
utility of implementing its short-term experts program and the fellowships
training program in a timely fashion. IDA also did not have much of a success
in assisting the Government with obtaining bilateral funding for the FOE which
later necessitated an amendment to the Credit Agreement.
I. Borrower Performance
39.    Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government acted promptly in
expediting actions required to set in place the planned project activities.
The project was declared effective within four months of Credit signing -- an



- 11 -
unusually prompt response in YAR's complex approvals setting. Necessary
legislation was also enacted in a timely fashion to create the various
governing bodies for the ERDC and FOE; and persistent efforts were made to
obtain local and bilateral funding for the three FOE departments. An interim
assessment was made on the teachers' salary supplementary fund, as stipulated
in the Credit Agreement, which proved to be of critical importance in deciding
the future of the fund. During supervision, IDA missions also received a
consistently high level of support from the PIU, MOE and CPO.
40.    With the exception of the unrealistic (and subsequently amended)
covenant concerning the Borrower's obligation to bridge FOE's financing gap
(para. 11), all other covenants, including accounting and audit covenants,
were met on time. Quarterly progress reports of a high quality were also
submitted to IDA routinely.
41.    Implementation weaknesses included delays in carrying out ERDC's
fellowship training programs, non-implementation of the short-term experts
program (para 15) and delays in completing project studies (para 17).
J. Borrower-IDA RelationshiD
42.    As may be deduced from the above text, the relationship between the
Borrower and IDA was excellent during project implementation.
K. Consulting Services
43.    The FOE made good use of its expert aervices for the design of
buildings, preparation of equipment lists and teaching staff. The ERDC,
however, did not use its allocation of short-term experts. Its long-term
experts performed well, but more in the capacity of long-term staff
concentrating on regular administrative work than as innovators.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
44.    With the exception of the covenant on future investment funds (para
11), the Credit Agreement was appropriate for its purposes. The SAR was well
documented and a valuable tool for Government in implementing the project.
Action programs, prepared by supervision missions, were used regularly during
the later stages of the project and were valuable monitoring tools. The
availability of well documented progress reports, prepared by the PIU, has
been an invaluable resource to visiting supervision missions and in the
preparation of this report. Data for the PCR were readily accessible.



- 12 -
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Adeauacv and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
45.    The statistical information presented in Part III was collected by
responsible personnel at the pertinent institutions, comprising directorates
of PTTIs and Technical Education, ERDC and FOE. Subsequently, the data was
compared and verified with, inter alia, existing records at PIU, quarterly
progress reports and aides memoire, working papers, credit documents and
appraisal reports.
B. Evaluation of IDA's Performance and Lesson Learned
46.    The performance of Bank personnel was acknowledged to be highly
professional, revealing no interference of personal proclivity. Mission
members always proved to be well-qualified, and capable of assisting in
technical and legal problem-solving. Supervision missions often acted as
catalysts to help implementation of the project's progress more quickly.
Correspondence from EM3PH at the Bank was gratifyingly prompt and efficient.
Similarly, the responsible officers of the disbursement division were
generally responsive and co-operative. While the mission appropriately
adheres to the World Bank standards for architectural design, these standards
are sometimes incompatible with local traditions and preferences. This
discrepancy was most often faced in the design of per/student area, and
corridors in boardings and other educational facilities.
47.    Two maior lessons were learned.   Firstly, it is recommended that an
officer from the disbursement division accompany a mission at sufficient
intervals, for example every three to four years. The purpose of this would
be for the division to become familiar with local financial operations and
implementation methods. The officer would also exchange suggestions with PIU
and provide the accounting department with guidance and expertise in solving
financial problems. The second major lessons learned is that architectural
specifications would preferably not be generalized to all countries so as to
allow more flexibility in approving designs.
C. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
48.    Throughout the period of implementation, the pertinent institutions
remained co-operative with each other and committed to their efforts of
working towards a successful outcome of the project. However, lengthy
governmental procedures caused a delay in approving the award of the civil
works contracts and providing the duty tax exemption for furniture and
equipment.
49.    Particularly with the FOE equipment purchase, there were two steps in
the procurement process that proved to ensure the acquisition of high-quality



- 13 -
state-of-the art equipment, and eliminated the acquisition of defective parts
or equipment. Firstly, the specifications in the bid documents stated that a
particular item be made by a manufacturer famous for high-quality or its
equivalent. Secondly, an inspection was carried by experienced agencies after
installation. For example, the agencies discovered a re-built pumping unit in
a new hydraulic universal testing machine.
50.    The lack of a comprehensive equipment list for procurement of the
ERDC, a new institution of the country, presented problems of continuous
orders and bidding of trivial items.
51.    The original estimation of fellowship program duration was sometimes
inaccurate due to variations in the education systems and requirements from
country to country and university to university. This resulted in continuous
requests for extension of duration and funds.
52.    The maior lessons learned were:  First, the estimation for the
duration of a fellowship should only be a guideline and the actual study
should be determined through regular progress reports by the administrative
agency (e.g. AMIDEAST, British Council). Second, items in an equipment list
that are available locally and at a reasonable price should be presented on a
separate bid from items that may only be obtained from outside the country.
Third, quarterly progress reports usually indicate very little change in
progress. It requires much effort to provide it quarterly and would be much
more efficient and meaningful to produce it bi-annually. In any case, PIU is
in the process of making a program for computerizing all the components of the
project progress reports.



- 14 -
PAR III. STATISTICAL INFOUMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table ls IDA Credits Rol-vant to the Proiect
Credit No.       Year of
Project Title    Approval    Purpose of Project           Status             Comments
Cr.421-YAR        1973         .Teacher Traininq          Closed         PPAR in 1983 noted
Education I                    .Vocational Trng.          12/80          institutional
.Non-formal Educa-                        improvement within
tion and Trng.                           MOE in planning,
.Agriculture Sec.                         administration and
School                                   curriculum develop-
ment; execution was
satisfactory.
Cr.611-YAR        1976         .Teacher Training          Closed         PPAR ln 1983
Education II                   .Basic Trng.Centers        06/82          reported a timely
.Education Materials                      full implementation
Production Center                       with effective
basic training in
rural development.
Cr.1340-YAR       1983        *Teacher Training;          Ongoing        Implementation is
Education V                    .Vocational Training;                     ratisfactory.
.District Training                        Uncommitted funds
centers;                                 are being used to
,Basic Training                           support additional
Facility (Village                       PTTIc and to re-
Units).                                  habilitate institutions
financed under
Credits 421 &
611-YAR.
Cr.1470-YAR       1984         .Primary Teacher           Ongoing        Civil works delays
Education VI                    Training (PTTI)                          have caused project
.Teacher quality                          implementat,on to
improvement through                      lag.  Uncommitted
Senior PTTI;                             funds are being used
.Non-formal Training;                     to rehabilitate IDA-
.Staff Development for                    funded institutions
NIPA.                                    under Cr.421 and
611-YAR.



- 15 -
Table 1t  (IDA Credit. Relevant to the Progect cont'db
Credit No.      Year of
Project        Approval    Pur),se of Project         Status             Comments
Title
Cr.1645-YAR    1985         .Polytechnic Trng.         Ongoing       Delays experienced
Techn.Trng.                 .Technical Secondary                     in civil works have
Schools;                               inflated project
.Vocational Trng.                        costs higher than
.National Tech.                          anticipated at
Training Board.                        appraisal.
Cr.1773-YAR    1985         .Primary Teacher           Ongoing       Start-up of civil
Teacher Trng.               Training Institutes;                     works has been
.Secondary Teacher                       slow due to delays
Training.                               in the award of
tenders.  The start-
up of technical
assistance has also
been delayed.
B. ProJect Timetable
Table 2. PLANNED. R$VISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                     Planned Date      Revised Date        Actual Date
Identification Mission            05/79               06/79          06/79
Preparation Mission               09/79               09/25/79       09/29/79
Preappraisal Mission              10/79                 -            05/80
Appraisal Mission                 10/15/80            10/21/80       10/25/80
Post-Appraisal Mission               -                  -            07/01/81
Credit Negotiations                  -                  -            12/02/81
Board Approval                       -                  -            01/28/82
Credit Signature                     -                  -            02/05/82
Credit Effectiveness                 -                  -            06/15/82
W-F



- 16 -
Table 2 (cont'd)
Item                     Planned Date     Revised Date       Actual Date
Project Completion               06/30/87             12/31/87      12/31/89 1/
Credit Closing                   12/31/87             12/31/88      12/31/89
Credit Completion                01/16/90
3.02     Comments on Proiect Timetable:  The original Credit Closing Date was December
31, 1987. All the project institutions and facilities were in place and operational.
However, as there were unutilized funds, additional equipment lists were prepared and
procurement took place between 1984 and 1989. Two extensions of the Credit account
were therefore necessary - the final extension was made on August 11, 1989 to
facilitate the payment of project equipment which had been shipped by the suppliers but
which had not arrived in YAR before the planned completion date for final
disbursements.
1/ Except for a small -ortion of the fellowships program, funded from other
IDA Credits and ocheduled for completion in late 1991.



- 17 -
C. Credit Disburemeents
Tablo 3: CUMULATIVE ETSNATED AND AC5UAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$Milliou)
IDA  FY    82    83    84    85    86    87    88    89   90
Appraisal Estlmate            -    1.3   6.2  10.5  11.5  11.9  12.0    -    -
A8tual                       0.2   1.2   2.8   3.9   4.?   8.2   9.8  12.1  12.1
Actual as % of Estimate       -    92%   45%   37%   41%   69%  82%      -    -
Date of Final Disbursement  - January 16, 1990
3.03     Comments on Actual Disbursements:   The Credit was disbuised ln SDRs.
At appraisal the SDR rate was 1.072 to US$1.00. By 1988, the equivalent
SDR/US$ rate was 1 SDR = $1.34. The original credit amount was SDR 10.2
million of which SDR 10.19 milllon was disbursed. A balance of SDR 7,139.12
was cancelled effective January 16, 1990.
YEMEN
Fourth Education Project
14-
12-
10-
=0 8
6-
4-
2-
0
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990
Estimated vs Actual CumLative Disbursements
Appraisal Estimate  Actual Disbursements



- 18 -
D. Proisect Imlementation
Table 4: PLANED AMND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENT8
Planned      Actual     Months of
Project Components                   Completion   Completion      Delay
Civil Works:
. ERDC                                09/84        04/85            7
. Student Boardino Facilitieos
. VTC, Taiz                         03/84        07/84            4
. VTC, Hodeidah                     03/84        02/84           -1
. PTTI, Ibb                         03/84        03/84            -
. PTTI, Amran                       03/84        12/84            9
.FOE      1                           06/87        10/88           16
Furniture & Eauilment
. ERDC                                12/84        12/89           60
. FOE                                 12/87        12/89           24
. PIU                                 06/85        06/88           36
Technical Assistance
Expert Services:
.ERDC                                05/86        06/89           37
-PIU                                 06/85        10/89           52
.FOE                                 06/86        06/89           36
Fellowshipas
.ERDC                                12/85        10/91           S8
.FOE                                 06/86        01/91           55
work Program/Studies
.Enrollment Dynamics                 09/82        06/85           33
.Teacher Supply/Retention            05/83        06/85           25
.Curriculum Review/Revisio:.         04/83        05/89           73
.Educational Facilities Inventory   06/83         10/89           76
Teacher Trainers'Salary
Suipolement Fund                     09/86        12/84           -21
3.04      Comcents on CoMletiom Datoe of ComoonentS:   Furniture and
equipment was procured in phases as funds became available. The first
reallocation was made in September 1985 from the civil works category to the
equipment, furniture & goods category.   A second phase was procured when
savings were identified towards the erd of implementation. Funding for expert
services by the State of Kuwait is still in progress at the FOE. Of the
thirty-seven research fellowships allocated for the ERDC, fourteen have
completed their training. The remaining twenty-three researchers will return
only in the Fall of 1991. The Curriculum Review study was modified as the GTZ
completed a part 3f it that dealt with vocational training. The school
inventory study wus absorbed into a full scale school mapping project



- 19 -
supported by the government. The TTSS fund was discontinued after an
evaluation of the program in mid 1984.
E. Proiect Costs and Financinq
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Estimated Costs            Actual Costs
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total
Category                       Costs   Costs    Costs   Costs    Cost    Costs
Civil Works                    3.22       3.13    6.35    6.05     6.05   12.10
Furniture & Equipment          0.20       1.85    2.05    0.75     6.64    7.39a/
Technical Assistance           0.81       3.93    4.74    0.83     4.16    4.99
Salary Supplement Fund         0.36        -      0.36 *   .32      -        .32
ERDC Work Programs             0.23        -      0.23 *   .10      -        .10
Total              4.82      8.91   13.73    8.05    16.85   24.90
Contingencies      2.26      2.18    4.44      -        -       -
7.08     11.09   18.17    8.05    16.85   24.90
* These costs are shown as planned at appraisal.  Table 7 shows actual SDR
amounts which are the final allocations as shown in the credit agreement.
a/ This figure includes financing provided by the GTZ and the British
Government.
3.05    Comments on Proiect Costs:    The project was implemented as planned,
and generally close to original estimates. The large construction cost
difference is in part due to sharp general rise in construction costs and in
part because of additions of facilities. Tehe Government has provided facilities
for an Architectural, and an Electrical engineering department in addition to
the Civil engineering department, originally planned.



- 20 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCINO
(US$Mlllion)
Planned
Source of Funds                    (SAR Renort)        Revised   Final
IDA                                   12.00           12.00        11.99
Government                            6.17             8.10        11.31
Other Sources                          - a/             a/          1.60 b/
Total Project Costs               18.17            20.10        24.90
a/ No exact amounts were estimated for cofinancing
b/ German and British bilateral aid
3.06    Coments on Proiect Financina:  The Development Credit Agreement
for the project specified that the Government should obtain bilateral
financing for planned civil works at the FOE (departments other than the
civil engineering department which IDA had originally agreed to finance).
After delay in attempting to obtain this financing, the Government carried
out the civil works from its own budget, but was able to obtain approximately
$1.6 million in German and British bilateral assistance, which the Government
used to purchase additional equipment and furnishings for the electrical
engineering department of the FOE which were not included in the original
cost estimates.



- 21 -
Table 7: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROC8ED8
Original       Revised         Actual
Category                        Allocation    Allocation   Disbursement
------    in SDRc---------------
(1)  Furniture, Equipment, Books          2,000,000    3,250,000       4,276,046.33
(2)  Civil Works                          3,090,000    1,840,000       2,028,698.96
(3)  Technical Assistance/Training        3,710,000    3,710,000       3,530,885.50
(4)  Work Program (Part A)                  260,000       260,000         85,224.29
(5)  Salary Supplementary Fund              520,000       520,000        272,005.80
(6)  Unallocated                            620,000       620,000              -
TOTAL                10,200.000   10.200,000    10.192.860.88
3.07    Comments on the Allocation of Credit Proceeds:  When the Government
decided to finance construction of the FOE buildings from its own funds, the
credit was amended by reallocating SDR 1.25 million from Category 2 (Civil
Works) to Category 1 (Furniture and Equipment). At accounts closing
(January 16, 1990) an amount of SDR 7.139.12 was cancelled with effect from
December 31, 1989. The total amount of funds in the Unallocated category
was reallocated to the Furniture and Equipment category.



- 22 -
P. Project Results
Table 8: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
Estimated at:
Indicators                Anoraisal         Closina Date a/       Full Develonment
Enrollments (Ref.Annex 3)
. VTC  - Taiz                 160              98              160
, VTC  - Hodeidah            280              386              280
, PTTI - Ibb                  210             674              210
, PTTI - Amran               210              535              210
Staff Uporadina/Trainina
, ERDC                         13             39
F FOE                          10             10
No.of Graduates
. FOE                          30             38               150 b/
SDecialist Assistance
. ERDC                      71mm
. PIU                       174mm
. FOE                       122mm
a/ Actual as at the Credit's Closing Date.
b/ FOE will exceed the targetted ciutput of graduates by 1993 according to
current enrollments.



- 23 -
Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
Name/Description                 Purpose                Status           Impact
Efficiency of          To identify key           Completed         USAID
Primary Education      factors contributing                        provided
to low efficiency of                        financing
Prim.Educ.in each                           to further
governorate.                                develop the
PTTI system.
Teacher Retention      To identify measures      Completed         Gov't.
for accelerating the                       reviewed
training, recruitment                       Teachers
and retention of Yemeni                     Salaries and
teachers at all levels                      incentives
of the educ.system.                         in 1985 and
its findings
resulted in the
design of the
Teacher Trng.
Project -
Credit 1773-YAR.
School Inventory       To conduct an inventory  Completed          Expanded to
and evaluation of exist-                    a gov't.school
ing school facilities to                   mapping
reduce the number of                       project.
incomplete schools and                      IDA study
under-utilized schools,                     used in
with a view to initiating                   expansion of
a medium-term school                       primary
location plan.                             education.
Curricula Review       To review and revise      Completed         Further studies
curricula of all teacher                    have built upon
training and vocational                     the groundwork
training institutions.                      laid by this
study.
3.09     Comments on Proiect Studies:  The studies were instrumental in the pre-
paration of future projects, e.g., the Teacher Training project preparation work
utilized information from the study on the Efficiency of Primary Education. The
Curriculum Review/Revision study prepared by the ERDC was reduced in scope as the
GTZ prepared a part of the study on vocational training. The School Mapping study
was, on the other hand, drastically increased in scope as the government used it
to implement a school mapping project which encompassed 200 school districts.



- 24 -
Table 10
Page I of 4
6. Status of Loan Covenants
Table 10
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN/CREDIT CONDITIONS
Marco 30. l990/Y.Saran                                                                       YAR - Education IV      _
(ODate)   (Task Nanager)                                                                 (Credit Number 1203-YAR)
1                               1            I       Status of Comoliance            I
I                               I             I            I           I             I                                I
I                               I  Source    I Conditions I Action    I Conditions  1                                1
I  Description of Covenant     I   of        I  Not       I Pending   I   Net        I         Discussion V
I                               I Covenant J/ IComplied   I             I            I
I     .  _                                                 I            I               I
I1. a. Establish in a bank      ISect. 3.02   I           I            I    X                                        I
I     acceptable to IDA a Sala-ISchedule 4   1             I            I                                             I
I     ry Supplement Fund in   IParas. 2b3   I             I             I             I
I     accordance with the pro- I             I             I           I             I
I     visions of Schedule 4    I             I            I            I             I
I     to the Credit Agreement. I             I             I           I             I
I                               I            I            I             I             I   .                           I
I  b. Naintain records adequatelSect. 1.02   I            I             I    X        I
I     to reflect in accordance ISchedule 4   1            1            1             1
I     with consistently main-  IParas. 2b3   I            I            I             I                                I
I     tained sound accounting  I             I            I             I            I
I     practices, the operationsl             I            1            1
I     of said Fund.            I             I            I            I             I
!                               I             I           I             I             I                               I
I  c. Not later than 06/30/85  ISect. 3.02   I            I             I    X       I Evaluation resulted in tenmi- 1
I     make a mid-tenn evalua-  ISchedule 4   1            1            1             I nation of program.             I
I     tion to assess the        IParas. 213   I           I            I             I                               I
I     effectiveness of the     I             I            I            I             I
t     Salary Supplement Fund inl              I           I             I                                             I
I     attracting teacher        I            I            I             I            I                                I
I     trainers into the train- I                    1                  1
1      ing institutes.          I             I            I            I             I
I                              I             I            I             I            I                                I
I  d. By June 1984. take nece- ISect. 3.02   I            I             I    X        I As of end of 1984. hE M
I     ssary steps to incorpo-  ISchedule 4   I            I             I            I provides own funding to cover I
I     rate progressively the   IParas. 213   I            I             I             I expenditures related to       I
I     expenditures related to  I              I            I           I              I teacher trainers salary       I
I     the Salary Supplement    I             I            I             I            I supplement.                    I
I     Fund in the recurrent    I             I             I           I             I                                I
I     budget of MOE commencing I              I            I            I             I
I     with fiscal year 1985.   I              I            I            I             I                               I
I      leading to full budgetingl            I            I            I              I
I     of said expenditures forI              I             I            I             I
t     fiscal year 1987 and      I            I             I            I                                             I
I     thereafter.               I            I             I            I            I
t                               I _                        I ____I
11    Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be covered whatever given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit. 6uarantee or Project Agreements or in other written form (e.g.. supplemental letters; agreed minutes of
negotiations). However, only the conditions most important to the success of the project need to be reviewed- all or
most of the 'special conditions' of the Loan/Credit listed in Section III of Annex IV of the President's Report will
generally fall in this category.
V     List causes of non-compliance and the remedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this is
adequately discussed In the Form S90 or In another Annex. In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon
which action is still pending. an indication should be given of the progress being made toward fulfillment of each of
the conditions.
UUiIV



-25 -
Page 2 of 4
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN/CREDIT CONDITIONS
March 30. 1990/Y. Saran                                                                           Education IV
(Date)    (Task Manager)                                                                (Credit Number 1203-YAR)
I                              I             I      Status of Comoliance            I                               I
t                              I             t            I           I             II
I  Source    I Conditions I Action    I Conditions  I                               I
I  Description of Covenant     I   of        I  Not       I Pending   I   Met       I         Discussion /          I
I Covenant I/ I Complied   I1                                                       1
I             I             I            I           I~~~~~~.      II
12. Commencing December 1983,   ISect. 4.03   I           I           I    X        I Information provided to the   I
I  make available to IDA       I             I            I           I             I IDA mission in April 1989.    I
I  annually the data of total  I             I            I           I             I 
I  enrollments, number of      I             I            I           I             I                               t
I  annual ac*nissions. examina- I            I            I           I             I
I  tions passing rates and     I             I            I           I             I
I  number of students residing I             I            I           I             I
I in the hostels for each of  I              I            I           I             I
I  the VTCs and the PTTls.     I             I            I           I             I
i                              I             I            I           I             II
13. Not later than 12/31/82,    ISect. 4.04   I           I           I    X        I A data base system has been   I
I  establish in the CPO a      I             I            I           I             I implemented at the Hinistry off
I  a system to monitor         I             I            I           I             I Civil Service and Adcinistra- I
I  annually: (a) the number of I             I            I           I             I tive Reform for this purpose. I
I  Government-supported Yemeni 1             1            1           1
I  engineering degree students I             I            I           I             I
I  abroad by discipline and    I             I            I           I             I
I  name of country and the     I             I            I           I             I
I  expected date of their      I             I            I           I             I
;  return; (b) the number of   I             I            I           I
*  new students proceeding     I             I            I           I             I
I  abroad for engineering      I             I            I           I             I                               I
I  studies.                    I             I            I           I             I
i                                            IIII
14. Undertake that the Board of ISect. 4.05   I           I           I    X        I A Faculty Council with the    I
I  Studies to be constituted   I             I            I           I             I above representation has been I
I  for the Faculty of Engineer-I             1            I           I             I established.                  I
I  ing in the University shall I             I            I           I             I                               I
I  include representatives of  I             I            I           1             I                               I
*  at least 2 of the following:1             I            I           I             I                               I
i  (a) HOPW; (b) CPO; (c) Yeme-I             I            I           I             I                               I
I  ni General Electricity Cor- I             I            I           I             I                               I
I  poration; (d) Tihama Deve-  I             I            I           I             I                               I
I  lopment Authority.          I             I            I           I             I                               I
IJ    Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be covered whatever given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit. Gua-antee or Project Agreuemnts or in other written form (e.g.. supplemental letters; agreed minutes of
negotiations). However, only the conditions most important to the success of the project need to be reviewed; all or
most of the "special conditions" of the Loan/Credit listed in Section III of Annex IV of the President's Report will
generally fall in this category.
V     List causes of non-compliance and the remedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this Is
adequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another Annex. In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon
which action is still pending, an indication should be given of the progress being made toward fulfillment of each of
the conditions.
vW21



- 26 -
Table IO
Page 3 of 4
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN/CREDIT CONDITIONS
March 30. 199Q/Y. Saran                                                                         YAR - Education IV
(Date)   (Task Manager)                                                                     (Credit Number 1203-YAR)
I                               I              I       Status of Coamliance             I
I~~                            ~      ~~~~ 1        I            II 
I  Source    I Conditions I Action    I Conditions  I
I  Description of Covenant      I   of         I  Not       I Pending   I   Met         I         Discussion V/
I Covenant l  I Complied   I             I             I
t                       t            t              I                                t
I5. Not later than 06/30/84.    ISect. 4.06   I             I             I    X        I The civil engineering depart- I
I  furnish or cause to be       I              I            I             I             Iment of the FOE has been        I
I  furnished to IDA an interim I               I            I             I             I established with IDA           I
I  report in a form satisfac-  I               I            I             I             I assistance and is fully        I
I  tory to IDA on the estab-   I               I            I             I             I operational;  electrical       I
lishment of the Faculty        I              I            I             I             I engineering and architectural I
I  of Engineering.  Such reportl               I            I             I             I ergineering departments have  I
I  to include, inter alia. the I               I            I             I             I been set up; other dqpartmentsl
I  future requirements of                      I            I             I             I are planned for the future.   I
I  foreign exchange resources  I               I            I             I             I
i  to complete all departments I               I            I             I             I                                I
i  of such a Faculty.           I              I            I             I             I
i                    i            ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~~I  I  I  I                      I
16. Before 06/30/83. enter into ISect. 4.07   I             I             I    X        I The buildings of the Faculty  I
i  agreement satisfactory to   I               I            I             I             I of Engineering have been       I
i  the Association to ensure   I               I            I             I             I completed and are in use.      I
i  the foreign exchange and    I               I            I             I             I                                I
i   local components of the     I              I                          I             I 
i  financing of the completion I               I            I             I             I
I  of departments at the        I              I            I             I             I
I  Faculty of Engineering avai-I               I            I             I             I
i   lable starting 01/01/84;    I              I                          I             I                                I
i   if by 06/30/83, part or allI               I            I             I 
i  of the aforesaid funds of   I               I            I             I             I                                I
i  such financing shall not    I               I            I             I             I
i  have been ensured to the    I               I            I             I             I                                I
i  satisfaction of the Associa-I               I            I             I
tion. the Borrower shall    I              I            I             I             I
i   include all funds needed fort              I            I             I             I
i  the completion of depart-   I               I            I             I             I
I  ments at the Faculty of      I              I            I             I             I                                I
I  Engineering in its budgetaryl               I            I             I             I
I  allocation starting          I              I            I             I             I
I  01/01/84.                    I              I            I             I             I
/     Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be covered whatever given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit. Guarantee or Project Agreemnts or in other written form (e.g.. supplemental letters; agreed minutes of
negotiations). However, only the conditions most important to the success of the project need to be reviewed; all or
most of the "special conditions" of the Loan/Credit listed in Section III of Annex IV of the President's Report will
generally fall in tnis category.
3V    List causes of non-compliance and the remedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this is
adequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another Annex. In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon
which action is still pending, an indication should be given of the progress being made toward fulfillment of each of
the conditions.
4fl(ltV



- 27 -
Iable 1I
Page 4 of 4
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN/CREDIT CONDITIONS
March 30. 1990/Y. Saran                                                                        YAR - Education IV
(Date)  (Task Manager)                                                                    (Credit Number 1203-YAR)
I      Status of Ccmwliance             I                                1
I  Source    I Conditions I Action  . I Conditions  I
I  Description of Covenant      I   of        I  Not       I Pending   I   Net         I         Discussion V          1
I                               I Covenant I/I Complied   I              I             I                               I
17. Undertakes to provide to thelSect. 4.08   1            1             I    X        I The four studies that         I
I  Association, upon completion!              I            I             I             I made up the EROC work program I
I  the results of work programsl              I            I             I             I have been completed.   The    I
I  of the ERDC referred to in  I              I            I             I             I school inventory study was    I
I  Part A (ii) of Schedule 2 ofl              I            I             I             I enlarged to a full scale      I
I  the Credit Agreement for    I              I            I             I             I school mapping project which  I
I  review and conments by the  I              I            I             I             I is being supported by the     I
I  Association.                                            I 1  1        1             1 Government.                   I
I                               I             I            I             I             I                               I
I      I            I    .                      I                               I
I             I             I            I            ~      ~~I .   I                               I
I                               I             I            I             I             I                               !
I                   !             ~I         .               I             I                                I
I~~              ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                          I
J.    Undertakings of both the 8orrower and guarantor are to be covered whatever given in the form of covenants In the
Loan/Credit. Guarantee or Project Agreements or in other written form (e.g.. supplemental letters; agreed minutes of
negotiations). However, only the conditions most important to the success of the project need to be reviewed; all or
most of the "special conditions" of the Loan/Credit listed in Section III of Annex IV of the President's Report wsill
generally fall in this category.
V     List causes of non-compliance and the remedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this is
adequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another Annex. In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon
which action is still pending, an indication should be given of the progress being made toward fulfillment of each of
the conditions.
4eM(14)V



- 28 -
H. Use of IDA Resources
Table 113 STAFF INPUTS BY STATE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN SWs
Stage of                   Planned             Revised            Final
Proiect Cycle             HQ   Field          BQ   Field       HQ   Field
Preparation
To Appraisal              30.0  15.0           -     -         38.3    12.0
Appraisal -
Board Approval          40.0  20.0           -     -         46.0   15.0
Board Approval -
Effectiveness            5.0   -             -     -           2.9     -
Supervision               15.0  25.0          10.0   38.0       16.8   47.6
Total         90.0  60.0          10.0   38.0    104.0    74.6
3.11    Comments on Staff Inputs:  Supervision time was underestimated as the
original closing date of the project was December 31, 1987. The Credit closed
on December 31, 1989 (credit account closed on January 16, 1990). An average
of 8 staffweeks ias planned for each year the project was supervised.  The
actual staffweek of supervision time spent was seven staffweeks.



- 29 -
Table 12l  MISSION DATA  ! STAORGS OF PROJECT
Staff       Overall
Month/     No.of                    Weeks       Performance
Mission             Year     Persons a/                Field       Status   b/
Identification       06/79    2 (GE/A)                   3.0
Preparation          09/79    3 (GE/TE/A)                6.0
Preappraisal         05/80    2 (GE/A)                   3.0
Appraisal            10/80    6 (A/E/GE/TE/EP/MS)       13.8
Post-Appraisal       07/81    1 (A)                      1.2
TOTAL                                               27.0
Supervision I        06/82    1 (A)                      1.9          1
Supervision II       11/82    2 (A/GE)                    .9          1
Supervision III      07/83    1 (GE)                     1.4          1
Supervision IV       08/83    2 (A/GE)                    .9          1
Supervision V        01/84    1 (EP)                     2.6          1
Supervision VI       02/84    3 (A/EP/TS)                1.3          1
Supervision VII      08/84    3 (A/GE/TE)                1.4          1
Supervision VIII    03/85    1 (TE)                       .3          1
Supervision IX       12/85    2 (A/E)                     .9          1
Supervision X        06/86    4 (A/GE/TE/EP)             5.0          1
Supervision XI       04/87    4 (A/GE/TE/EP)             6.7          1
Supervision XII      10/87    2 (GE/OA)                  3.1          1
Supervision XIII    03/88    3 (GE/OA/PS)                4.6          1
Supervision XIV      10/88    4 (GE/OA/A/TE)             5.6          1
Supervision XV       03/89    3 (GE/A/OA)                3.8          2
Supervision XVI      08/89    5 (GE/A/OA/PS/TB)          7.2          2
TOTAL                                                47.6
PCR                  03/90    2 (A/OA)                   3.3
a/ A- Architect; E- Economist; GE- Gen.Educator; TE- Tech.Educator;
EP- Education Planner; OA- operations Assistant; PS- Procurement
Specialist; MS= Media Specialist.
b/ Performance/Implementation Status -- 1 - Problem Free or Minor Problems
2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major Problems



- 31 -
Annex I
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Proiect Completion Report
Fourth Education Proiect (Credit 1203-YAR)
Participants in Comnletion Mission
International. Development Association (IDA)
Y. Saran, Technical Educator, Tack Manager
S. Sigurdeson, Senior Implementation Specialist
P. Maughan, Operations Assistant
Ministry of Education
A. Abdul Hafez, Director General, PIU
A. Taher, Co-Director General, PIU
A. Hamis, Assistant Director General, PIU
A. Kharama, Procurement Officer, PIU
M. Al Muwaada, Technical Assistance Officer, PIU
B. Abdul Kader, Accountant, PIU
Educational Research & Development Center (ERDC)
M. Shahari, Director, ERDC
I. Abdu Kasem, Technical Coordinator, ERDC
M. Sarhan AlMiklafi, Head, Research Unit, ERDC
Faculty of Engineering. Sana'a University
A. Faisal Omar, Dean, Faculty of Engineering
M. R. Al Eryani, Vice Dean, Faculty of Engineering
A. Karim Daer, General Director for Financial Affairs
A. Ghanem, Chief, External Procurement Dept.
H. Al Nehme, Coordinator, Faculty of Education



- 32 -
Anex 2
,PZPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Ptoieoti Complet ion Report
Voutth Edugation Proiogt iCredlit 1203-YARI
Record of Proiect Progrgesa Reoorta Submitted
(by Quarter)
PER1O2 ENDING                          DamE SuBMITTED
1.          09/82                             10/25/ 82
2.          12/82 
3.          03/83                             05/15/83 Al
4.          06/83                             08/03/83
S.          09/83                             10/29/83
6.          12/83                             01/01/84
7.          03/84                             05/30/84
8.          06/84                             09/03/84
9.          09/84                             11/15/R4
10.         12/84                             03/09/85
II.         03/85                             06/05/85
12.         06/83                             08/20/85
13.         09/85                             05/07/86
14.         12/85                             05/07/86
15.         03/86                             06/04/C6
16.         06/86                             08/06/86
17.         09/86                             05/06/87
l8.         12/86                             05/06/87
19.         03/87 
20.         06/87 
21.         09/87 
22.         12/87 
23.         03/88                             10/23/88 a
24.         06/88                             11/04/88
25.         09/88                             04/11/89
26.         12/88                             04/11/89
27.         03/89                             08/05/89
28.         06/89 
29.         09/89 
30.         12/89                             03/11/90 
a/ This report incorporated the status of the project for the proceeding
period(s). Except for the delays in 1987 and 1989 in submitting the
information for the report, the quarterly progress reports submitted were well
documented and submitted on tLme.



- 33 -
Annex 3
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Proiect Comoletion ReBort
Fourth Education Proiect (Credit 1203-YARg
PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION OF CIVIL WORKS.
FURNITURE AND EOUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
COMPLETION DATES
Civil Wo_ks                     Furniture and Eauiument
Institution/                                   Months                                   Months
Buildina                   Planned   Actual   Delay              Planned      Actual    Delay
ERDC:                        09/84      04/85      7               12/84         12/89      60
Boardina Facilities:
, VTC, Taiz                 03/84       07/84     4                 -             -          -
VTC, Hodeidah              03/84      02/84    -1
PTTI, Ibb                  03/84      03/84      -
P eTTI, Amran               03/84       12/84     9                 -             -          -
Faculty of Enaineerino:
* Civil Eng. Dept.          12/84       10/88    46                12/87         12/89      24
Proiect Imolementation Unit: -            -       -                06/85         06/88      36
Comments Comoletion Dates: Equipment procurement began in 1984 and continued through 1989
as funds became available following a reallocation, in September 1985, of funds from the
civil works category to the furniture, equipment and goods category.



- 34 -
Annex 3
Table 2
PLANNED AND ACTUAL UTILIZATION OF
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BY INSTITUTION
Specialist Assistance        Fellowshiio Trainina
Institution                    Planned  Actual             Planned   Actual
No.  MM  No. MK            No.  MM   No.  MM
ERDC                           (17)  71 ( 4) 132           (23) 466  (37)  605
PIU                            ( 9) 174 ( 6) 180            -     -    -    -
FOE                            ( 9) 122 ( 9) 154           (10) 300  (10)  348
TTSSF                           -    -   -                  -    -   (10)  408
Totals                (35) 367 (19) 466            (33) 766  (57) 1361
Comments on the Utilization of TA.   ERDC did not use its full quota of
short-term consultants but were allowed to send more fellows for training. Fewer
consultants were used for a longer duration at less cost than anticipated at
appraisal. Approximately 37 researchers have been sent on fellowships and 14 had
completed their programs of study by the project's closing date. The remainder
are expected to return in late 1991.



- 35 -
Annex 3
Table 3
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
FACULTY OF ENGINEERING
-------------  Full Time Staff -----------
Instructional       Teacher Assistants
Department           Staff (PhD Level)       (M.S./B.S. Level)
YEMENI  NON-YEMENI    YEMENI   NON-YEMENI
Civil Eng.             3          11          15           3
Electrical Eng.        4           7          12           -
Architectural Eng.    -            6            3          -
Mechanical Eng.        -           2           3           -
Sub-total            7          26          33           3
Part-time Staff        3           1           1           1
TOTAL           10           27          34           4
Comments on Staff at the FOE. In addition to the 75 technical and
professional staff shown above, there are also some 35 administrative
staff and about 20 lab technicians who support the technical staff.
Although the table shows five staff for the mechanical engineering
department, this department has not as yet been established but courses
in that field have begun to teach relevant mechanical engineering
subjects to civil and electrical engineers. Expatriate salaries are
being financed by the State of Kuwait and average about US$30,000 per
staff year.



- 36 -
Annex 3
Table 4
PLANNED AND ACTUAL ENROLLMENTS AND OUTPUSTS
OF PROJEC= IN-TITUTION8PROGRAMS
Enrollments            Boarders                 Outuuta
Institution/
Proaram                Planned  Actual a        Planned  Actual   *    Planned  Actual    %
Boardina Facilitiest
. VTC, Taiz             160      98      61%     108   - 98       91%       60      27     45%
. VTC, Hod-idah         280     386    138%      108      140    130%       70      74    106%
. PTTI, lbb             210     674    321%      108      226    209%       56     104    186%
. PTTI, Amran           150     535    357%      108      289    268%       40     103    258%
FOE
. Civil Eng. Dept.      750    1450    193%       -        -                40      34      85%
3.04 Comments on Enrollnents and Outouts: The numbers of students enrolled and
those graduating exceeded the planned capacity at each facility except for the VTC
at Taiz which wao merged with a secondary teachers' center also at Taim - a new VTC
was constructed with government funds nearby. The lower than planned output at the
FOE is due to delays ln civil worksl however, the students now enrolled at the FOE
will far exced the planned output by 1992.



- 37 -
anea
Table 5
CIVIL WORKS PROCUREMENT SCHEDULe AS AGREED
BETWEEN IDA AND ggEMENM T
Tender             Contract          Civll Work.
Institution                   Date           _     ianed            Initiated
Building                Planned  Actual      Planned  Agtual      PlannS  Actual
ERDC                    05/82    04/82      09/82    11/82      09/82    12/82
Boardino Facilities:
 VTC, Taiz            11/81  04/82       03/82    11/82      10/82    02/83
 VTC, Hodeidah        11/81  04/82       03/82    11/82      10/82    02/83
 PTTI, Ibb            11/81  04/82       03/82    11/82      10/82    02/83
 PTTI, Amran          11/81  04/82       03/82    11/82      10/82    02/83
FOE
Civil Eng. Dept.    10/82    07/83       12/82    08/84      01/83    10/84
Except for major delays in the award of contracts and subsequent completion of
the FOE. other facilities were completed with marginal delays only. The quality
of construction was quite good and the design of buildLngs impresLve.



