Document of                   FILE  Cor 
The World Bank                                    py
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3181-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TRE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
December 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                      December 1981
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YRI)             YR1
$1  =  YRIs 4.50 _/                 4.50
YRI 1 =  $0.22                        0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (starting 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO      =  Central Planning Organization
ERDC     =  Educational Research and Development Center
ICB      =  International Competitive Bidding
IDA      =  International Development Association
MOA      =  Ministry of Agriculture
MOE      =  Ministry of Education
PIU      =  Project Implementation Unit
PTTI     =  Primary Teacher Training Institute
TTSSF    =  Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplement Fund
UNDP     =  United Nations Development Program
UNESCO   =  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNICEF   =  United Nations International Children Emergency Fund
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
VTC      =  Vocational Training Center
YAR      =  Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which bas
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rigbts: 10.2 million
(approximately US$12.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   The proposed project is designed to aid institu-
tional development, attract and retain qualified
Yemenis to the teaching force, increase the enroll-
ment in the existing primary teacher training insti-
tutes (PTTI) and vocational training centers (VTC)
and meet a serious shortage of Yemeni engineers. It
includes (a) establishment of an Education Research
and Development Center (ERDC) by providing funds for
technical assistance and the construction and equip-
ping of the ERDC; (b) provision of boarding facili-
ties for two PTTIs and two VTCs as incentives to
increase enrollment; (c) creation of a teacher
trainers' salary supplement fund to assist in
attracti.g and retaining qualified Yemeni teacber
trainers 'Into the PTTIs; and (d) provision of assis-
tance, during the period 1982-84, to establish the
Faculty of Engineering at the University of Sanaa by
financing the (i) design of its physical facilities;
(ii) construction and equipping of the department of
civil engineering; and (iii) technical assistance
for staffing the department of civil engineering and
the training of Yemeni staff for the Faculty of
Engineering as a whole.
Project Risks:          Project risks relate to possible Government delay in
(a) legislative action for granting the ERDC quasi
autonomous status for setting staff salaries and
determining the scope of its operations, and (b)
obtaining the external financing requirements beyond
1984 for completing the Faculty of Engineering.
These risks are minimized by the Government's com-
mitment to establish these institutions. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to issue and
publish the decree for establishing the ERDC by
January 1982, and to provide all external funds
needed for completing the Faculty of Engineering.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                                Local    Foreign    Total
(Project costs are exempted
from custom duties and taxes)
------- $ million -------
Construction, furniture and
equipment for:
ERDC                                       1.35        1.60       2.95
Student boarding facilities                1.09       0.86       1.95
Civil Engineering Department
(Faculty of Engineering)                 0.98        2.52       3.50
Teacher Trainers' Salary
Supplement Fund                              0.36         --       0.36
Technical Assistance for:
(a) ERDC: fellowships, specialists
and special studies                  0.56        1.33       1.89
(b) Faculty of Engineering:
fellowships, architectural
and specialists' services            0.35        2.06       2.41
(c) Institutional Support of the PIU    0.13          0.54       0.67
Base Cost                                     4.82        8.91      13.73
Contingencies:
Physical                                   0.41       0.70       1.11
Price                                      1.85        1.48      3.33
Sub-total                                     2.26        2.18      4.44
TOTAL                                         7.08       11.09      18.17
Financing Plan:                               Local    Foreign    Total
…____     million -
IDA Credit                                    0.91       11.09     12.00
Government Contribution                       6.17         -         6.17
Total                                       7.08       11.09     18.17
Estimated IDA Disbursements: IDA FY 1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
------------   million --------o--
Annual                              1.3   4.9   4.2   1.1   0.4   0.1
Cumulative                          1.3   6.2  10.4  11.5  11.9  12.0
Estimated Completion Date: June 1987
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3591-YAR, dated December 28, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 10.2 million (approximately ¢12.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Fourtb Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a Coun-
try Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report on
manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; and an Urban Sec-
tor Report (No. 2699-YAR), dated March 1981, have been distributed to the
Executive Directors. Country data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution suc-
ceeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the founda-
tions of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties bave provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private
sectors. A Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) was followed by
the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their wake, the foun-
dations for the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and
expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay
of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also
started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased, on a net basis, from around $4O million in 1969/70 to a level that
has fluctuated around $1 billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980,
but which seems to have dropped below this level in 1981 (on the basis of
tentative estimates by the Central Bank). Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over this
period, reaching an estimated $420 in 1978/79.



-2-
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force is
drawn from a population pool which is characterized by very low levels of
education or training. Although the most critical shortages are in the
skilled and professional occupations, even the unskilled work force was under
strain during the height of the labor migration to neighboring countries.
However, it appears that previous shortages of unskilled workers have recent-
ly eased somewhat as the pace of migration has levelled off. The shortage of
manpower limits the capacity of the public administration to manage and im-
plement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government rev-
enue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small. Most
budget revenue is derived from import duties, while other sources of taxation
are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been covered
through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to diminish in
relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for measures to
broaden the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and devise new
schemes to tap the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission, with IMF
participation, addressed these and related issues, and its draft report was
discussed with the Government in November 1981. The Government has already
implemented some of the mission's recommendations.
Government Objectives
9.        The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81). It has endeavored to develop human re-
sources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Preliminary progress reports on the first four years of the
Plan indicate that, in aggregate terms, objectives have by and large been met
except in the agriculture sector where output has stagnated and actual growth
fell considerably below targeted levels primarily because of the abandonment
of marginal rain-fed areas whose income opportunities could not compete with
the opportunities of migration.
10.       The preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986) is cur-
rently underway. In this context, the Government had initially asked the
Bank for assistance in reviewing major development issues, and in evaluating



priorities in sectors in which IDA is involved so as to channel resources
into the most desirable areas. This work has been completed. More recently,
at the request of the Government, the Bank agreed to act as executing agency
for a UNDP-financed project that assists in overseeing the inputs to be used
by the Central Planning Organization in the preparation of the plan.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
11.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
bave grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and
1978/79. 1/ Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflec-
ting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government ser-
vices, and of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid increase of
modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables,
fruits and poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most important eco-
nomic sector in YAR, was relatively stagnant and in some cases contracted.
12.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new mar-
kets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private invest-
ment in bousing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This coin-
cided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures. Ini-
tially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated form
through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the Government
increased its capital expenditures from close to YRls 60 million ($13 mil-
lion) in 1972/73 to around YRls 2.5 billion ($555 million) in 1979/80.
Domestic and External Finance
13.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79,
gross national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million, which
would be equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national sav-
ings are generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a large
part of these savings originated from remittances of workers, most of whom
are from rural areas. Savings are thus benefitting most regions of the coun-
try and different population groups.
14.       Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that
year). However, in the following three years tax revenue more than
1/ The Government, with United Nations/Economic Commission for Western Asia
(UN/ECWA) assistance, has recently revised the country's entire national
accounts series. A Bank economic updating mission visited Yemen in
November 1981 to look into these revisions. Its analysis will be
reported in a forthcoming country economic memorandum. The figures in
Annex I and the following discussion are based on the unrevised series.



- 4 -
trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases in
import duties. As a result, the current budget yielded surpluses, which in
1977/78 reached YRls 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates for
1978/79 have this surplus shrinking to around YRls 315 million ($70 million)
as a result of the continued large expansion of expenditures. The recent
Bank mission to review domestic resource mobilization, as well as a subse-
quent IMF Article IV Consultation mission, expressed concern that the overall
budgetary position deteriorated rapidly as of 1978/79 and the overall deficit
has been on the order of YRIs 2 billion-2.5 billion ($445 million-$555 mil-
lion) per annum.
15.       YAR's external financial position has also changed dramatically in
recent years. While at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange was
in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to request the
rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the country sub-
sequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of payments surpluses
and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for this change must be
seen in the large and growing amounts of workers' remittances and private
transfers, as well as in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations. However, the last two years or
so have witnessed a stabilization in the levels of remittances and transfers,
and since imports continued their rapid growth, the balance of payments has
also deteriorated sharply. As a result, there has been a significant run on
the country's foreign reserve holdings.
16.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy.  Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemeni rial,
and the absence of import restrictions.
Capital Flows and External Debt
17.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to more than $1.5 billion by the end of 1980. The
principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, the Gulf States, IDA, China,
Germany and the USA.
18.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for
budget support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program
and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants
has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the ex-
treme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority
and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants,
YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits. Drawings on



these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $417 million in 1980.
Most of the official loans and credits have been committed for the financing
of specific projects, with the main empbasis on roads; agriculture, including
irrigation; and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
19.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries bave varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 years.
20.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1980 was
estimated at $1603 million, of which $727 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, IDA, the Arab Fund, China, Germany and
the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits accounted for $201 million or about 13 percent
of the total debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrow-
ing, the debt service payments amounted to $18 million for 1980, equivalent
to around 1 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few
years, the burden of such payments would continue to remain small in relation
to YAR's exchange earnings.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       The proposed credit would be the twenty-seventb to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $254.3 million.l/ Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and Bank grants, as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects, as of September 30, 1981. The World
Bank strategy in YAR has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the
basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequi-
sites for development, to develop production and income in the dominant pro-
ductive sector, agriculture, and to support the Government in its programs to
meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA
has extended three credits for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million
credit for a port development project, four credits for water supply and
sewerage totalling $36.4 million, and $22 million for two power distribution
credits. To assist in the development of education, IDA has extended three
credits for a total of $29 million, in support of primary and secondary
teacher training, secondary technical and vocational education and training
of public administration personnel. To develop rural infrastructure and to
support production and distribution in agriculture, fisheries and agroindus-
try, IDA has made nine credits for a total of $106.4 million. To develop
industry, IDA extended a $2.3 million credit in 1974 for an industrial estate
1/ Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First Tihama
project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excluding the $7.0 million credit for the
Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was cancelled
at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 6 -
project designed to stimulate investment for small-scale industry as well as
to provide a model for future industrial development and a $12 million credit
in March 1981 to assist in the development of the Industrial Bank of Yemen as
an effective development finance company; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4
million by the International Finance Corporation was approved to help finance
a dairy and juice project.
22.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture. In CPO, the World Bank (through three grants
totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a team of planning and
economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery. In the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the Bank supplies the services of seven advisors initially
financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and now financed jointly
by IDA (under the Second Tihama project), the EEC Special Action Fund and
UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz, which carries out agricul-
tural research for the country as a whole, is also financed as part of this
institutional support project.
23.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture and rural develop-
ment, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successful implementation. The first urban development
credit was negotiated in December 1981, and it is also scheduled for con-
sideration by the Executive Directors today. A first health project, a first
energy project to provide assistance in energy resource exploration and an
agricultural research project have been appraised; a building materials pro-
ject, a fourth highways project and an agricultural credit project are in the
preparation stage. Future projects are expected to include power, water
supply and rural development activities.
24.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary.
As in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to co-
operate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects have led to about $294
million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid donors.



PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
General Education 1/
25.       The level of human resources development in YAR is one of the
lowest in the world, which is not surprising since the effective move to es-
tablisb a modern education system began in the late 1960s. Only 21 percent
of YAR's adult population is literate and enrollment ratios for the formal
education system are about 34 percent at the primary level, 5 percent at the
preparatory level, 3 percent at the secondary level, and negligible at the
university level. In addition, and despite a substantial government effort,
the provision of educational services, particularly to the rural population,
is limited by a shortage of teachers. Nonformal education, such as func-
tional literacy, has reached only a few areas of Yemen. Moreover, parental
apathy towards modern education in general continues to act as a restraint on
the full utilization of available educational opportunities. The presence of
a very large, annually changing, non-Yemeni teaching force, which conse-
quently lacks a deep appreciation of local conditions and customs, has not
helped overcome this apathy.
26.       The need for an educated workforce with necessary skills to respond
to the demands of a changing economy is seen by the Government as fundamental
to its overall development strategy. The first five-year development plan
(1976-81) reflects this imperative. Accordingly, educational development
policies have been directed towards expanding basic schooling, while training
programs have been oriented towards meeting skilled manpower needs. The
Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for primary, preparatory, second-
ary and technical education. The University of Sanaa, characterized by the
absence of applied sciences/technology programs, has five faculties: Arts,
Sciences, Education, Commerce and Sharia (Islamic Law). Plans are underway
at the University to establish two more faculties: Health Sciences and
Engineering.
27.       The Government has made significant efforts to realize its long-
term objectives; (a) basic education for all school-age children, (b) an
education and training system adapted to the country's development needs, and
(c) the production of skilled and educated manpower. The MOE placed much em-
phasis on the construction of schools to realize these objectives, assisted
by three IDA projects and other donors. As a result, enrollment has in-
creased at an average annual rate of 15 percent at the primary and 4 percent
at the preparatory and secondary levels. However, a number of issues affect-
ing educational development remain to be solved. These issues include:
(a) inability of the education system to produce an adequate number of
literate, skilled and educated Yemenis to meet priority manpower
requirements;
1/ The data on some educational indicators in this section were recently
updated and thus do not correspond to data given in Annex I of this
report.



- 8 -
(b) a lack of qualified local staff for planning and administering of
education and training programs; presently, more than half of such
staff are expatriates;
(c) low internal efficiency; only about 12 percent of students begin-
ning primary school complete the course;
(d) limited and unequal access to education and training, especially
for the rural population and for women;
(e) a low enrollment in the primary teacher training institutes (PTTI)
and the vocational training centers (VTC); only about one-third of
the institutions' total capacity is presently utilized (see para-
graphs 28 and 43-44); and
(f) a large expatriate teaching force and an overwhelmingly untrained
Yemeni one; in 1980, some 85 percent of primary and over 90 percent
of secondary teachers were expatriates. Moreover, only about
40 percent of the Yemeni force could be considered qualified.
28.       The Government has also attempted to solve the teacher shortage.
It has expanded the School of Education at the University of Sanaa, which
trains teachers for preparatory and secondary levels; built 25 PTTIs in
various regions of the country; and undertaken, with support from USAID, a
program to train staff for the PTTIs in collaboration with Eastern Michigan
University. This program, which will provide 175 teacher trainers in five
years, can be expected to improve the quality of teaching at the PTTIs.
This, together with the provision of new boarding facilities at most existing
PTTIs, is expected to help improve enrollment. However, it is likely that
full utilization of PTTIs will depend on increasing the attractiveness of
teaching as a profession, by improving the classification of teachers in the
civil service code and providing a career structure that allows professional
growth.
Educational Objectives
29.       The Government is presently preparing the Second Five-Year Plan.
The MOE aims during this period to improve the quality of education by ex-
panding the output of teaching staff, recruiting teachers at higher educa-
tional levels, upgrading primary teacher training and intensifying in-service
teacher training. The MOE also plans to strengthen the staff responsible for
administering education, expand the school inspectorate system, and upgrade
education facilities, equipment and materials. Moreover, the MOE expects to
continue to insist on including training components in all development pro-
jects.
30.       The Government's educational development objectives and the strat-
egy for achieving them appear sound. The strategy addresses the three most
important sectoral issues: access, quality and priority manpower needs.
However, the Government has not yet defined specific means for realizing
these objectives. The Second Five-Year Plan, therefore, ought to formulate



-9 -
specific and well prepared programs and projects which could be suitable for
both local and international financing. It is expected that basic work in
this field would be undertaken by the Educational Research and Development
Center (ERDC) which would be established and financed under the proposed
project. The ERDC will have a broad mandate for providing guidance, advice
and specific operational proposals for solving the major problems confronting
this sector.
Meeting Engineering Manpower Shortages
31.       The demand for engineers in YAR during the 1980s is estimated at
about 1,900, with a cumulative shortfall of about 1,300 by 1990.1/ So far,
the country has met its needs for engineers largely through the recruitment
of expatriates and, to a lesser extent, by out-of-country training. The
annual salary of an expatriate engineer in 1980 averaged about $40,000,
exclusive of housing, transport and otber benefits. In comparison, the
annual salary of a Yemeni engineer averaged about $15,000.
32.       The training of Yemeni engineering students abroad has suffered
from three major problems. First, it has become increasingly difficult to
place Yemeni engineering students abroad, even in neigbboring Arab countries,
as a result of the quota system imposed on foreign students and/or language
needs in non-Arab countries. Second, a relatively small number of those
studying engineering abroad return to Yemen for employment; often students
who find initial difficulty in their studies change their specialization,
some drop out and some others who graduate are attracted by higber salaries
in oil exporting Arab countries. Of the 540 Yemeni engineering students who
were abroad in 1976/77, of which 320 were on fellowship programs, less than
100 graduates returned to YAR during 1976-80. Finally, the costs of studying
abroad, particulary for engineering and medicine, have soared with inflation
and elimination of subsidies; in 1980 the average annual cost of educating an
engineering student was about $8,000 in Arab countries and $13,000 in indus-
trialized countries. However, on the basis of expenditures incurred on
fellowship programs (320 students) during 1976-80, and the number of gradu-
ates returning to YAR (about 100), the average cost of a Yemeni engineering
graduate returning for employment in YAR is estimated at about $150,000 (1980
prices). Moreover, even if all future engineering degree fellowship students
were enrolled in the Arab countries and assuming that 60 percent of these
fellows would be successful and return for employment in YAR, the average
unit cost would be about $67,000. In comparison, if a faculty of engineering
is established at the University of Sanaa, and, assuming a drop-out rate of
20 percent over a five-year course of studies and that 80 percent of the
graduates will be employed in YAR, the cost per engineering graduate employed
in YAR has been estimated at about $55,000 (1980 prices) by 1990.
l/ Manpower Development in the Yemen Arab Republic. IBRD, Report No.
3181a-YAR (March 1981).



- 10 -
33.       In view of the above, the Government has decided to help meet the
shortage of engineers by establishing a Faculty of Engineering as part of the
University of Sanaa. Available data indicate that by 1983, about 1,600 stu-
dents are expected to graduate from the science stream in secondary schools
and about 200 will graduate from the technical secondary schools. Thus the
Faculty of Engineering is expected to have an adequate pool from which to
select some 150 qualified entrants.
Education Finance
34.       In 1979/80, the Government committed about 12 percent of both its
current and capital expenditures (about 5 percent of GDP) to the education
sector, as compared to 8 percent in 1975/76. These figures exclude financial
contributions from Yemenis through their Local Development Associations and
those from neighboring Arab countries which are made directly to educational
institutions. Of the Government expenditures on education, some 30 percent
was allocated for capital expenditures, of which a substantial proportion was
spent on the primary level.
35.       The total recurrent expenditures for general education (including
foreign aid support for non-Yemeni teacher salaries) amounted in 1979/80 to
about $112 million, of which $94 million was allocated to the primary level,
$11 million to the preparatory level and $7 million to the secondary level.
The annual recurrent expenditures per student (in monetary terms) have risen
between 1975/76 and 1979/80 from $40 to $280 per primary school student;
$240 to $500 per preparatory school student; and $320 to $680 per general
secondary student. These recurrent unit costs are high in comparison with
countries at a similar development stage such as Sudan and PDRY; they are
particularly high at the primary level. These high costs arise principally
from the large expenditures spent by the Government on expatriate teachers
wbo, nevertheless, have low teaching loads compared with Yemenis. The
present team at the MOE is conscious of the need to control recurrent costs
and has already begun taking the necessary steps to lower unit costs. These
measures include (a) ensuring contractual obligations of minimum acceptable
class contact hours for expatriate teachers and (b) encouraging the
recruitment and retention of Yemeni teachers through the higher pay scales
that became effective in March 1981 and an extensive in-service Yemeni
teacher training project undertaken by UNICEF.
Previous IDA Assistance in the Education Sector
36.       The proposed project would be the fourth IDA-financed project in
the education sector in YAR. The first two IDA-assisted projects reflected
the Government emphasis on establishing the formal education system as an
essential base for other education and training programs with priority for
teacher and vocational training and secondary technical education. IDA's
involvement in this sector started in 1973 with the now completed First
Education Project (Cr. 421-YAR). The project faced implementation delays and
physical components were completed about two and one-half years beyond the
original closing date (the credit was closed on December 31, 1980). The
second education project (Cr. 611-YAR) was approved in 1976 and, as a result



- 11 -
of the experience gained from the first project, most of its physical compo-
nents are being implemented on schedule as appraised. There was an initial
delay in securing technical assistance under a UNDP/UNESCO project to operate
the institutions, which were completed under the above two projects, as a
result of the financial difficulties experienced by UNDP in 1976. The Gov-
ernment, however, obtained the necessary technical assistance from bilateral
sources and all completed institutions are presently in operation. The third
education project (Cr. 915-YAR) was approved in 1979 and was largely in sup-
port of the Government's aim of meeting the country's need for the middle
level agricultural technicians, and the training of its civil servants. That
project also includes a relatively large component of technical assistance for
pre-investment feasibility studies related to basic health care training and
post-secondary education in the applied sciences.
37.       A completion mission for the first education project took place in
March 1981. The perceived lessons include: (i) designs for civil works to be
performed by local contractors should not include building materials with
which local workers are unfamiliar; (ii) reliance on external agencies as the
major suppliers of technical assistance including expert teachers may delay
the operation of completed institutions; and (iii) provision of boarding
facilities for PTTIs and VTCs is necessary if enrollment is to reach planned
capacity. Those lessons have been incorporated in the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
38.       The proposed fourth education project continues IDA's lending
strategy towards the development of the educational system. The project was
prepared by the YAR Government with assistance of consultants and an IDA
preparation assistance mission of May 1980. It was appraised in October/
November 1980 witb post-appraisal in March 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C. from December 2 to December 7, 1981. The YAR delegation was
headed by Mr. Fathi Salem, Deputy Minister of Development and Deputy Chair-
man, Central Planning Organization and included representatives of the Min-
istry of Education (MOE) and the University of Sanaa. A staff appraisal re-
port entitled "Yemen Arab Republic - Fourth Education Project" (No. 3591-YAR)
dated December 28, 1981 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the credit and the project are summarized in
the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is
attached.
Project Objectives and Description
39.       The proposed project is designed to (a) assist the MOE and other
training bodies in resolving major operational and programning problems aris-
ing from a decade of rapid expansion, though still rudimentary, of the Yemen
educational system and to provide guidance for planned change of this system;
and (b) meet the urgent technical and engineering manpower needs of the coun-
try. The project would be implemented over the 1982-87 period and would com-
prise the following components: (i) establishment of an Educational Research



- 12 -
and Development Center (ERDC) by providing funds for technical assistance and
the construction and equipping of the ERDC; (ii) provision of boarding fa-
cilities for two primary teacher training institutes (PTTI) and two voca-
tional training centers (VTC); (iii) creation of a salary supplement fund for
teacher trainers at the PTTIs; and (iv) provision of assistance, during the
period 1982-84, to establish the Faculty of Engineering at the University of
Sanaa.
Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC)
40.       A variety of issues have risen since the MOE started in the late
1960s to implement the Government's programs for spreading education in the
country. The Government has become aware that educational research and plan-
ning has been neglected since MOE officials are burdened with the day-to-day
work of the Ministry. It was thus decided that a separate institution could
more effectively address a comprehensive range of educational research and
development issues. Such an institution would provide planning and policy
advice to MOE officials and carry out specific studies with a bearing on
operational problems affecting the education system. The project would,
therefore, provide the necessary funds to construct, furnish and equip the
ERDC in Sanaa. The project also provides for 47 man-months of short-term
consultancy to assist in initiating the ERDC's priority work programs, and 24
man-months of long-term consultancy to assist the ERDC Director in the early
technical and administrative tasks at the institution. The development of
Yemeni technical and administrative capabilities will take place through
on-the-job training, 466 man-months of fellowships for the training of Yemeni
staff and 10 internships of short duration at foreign educational development
institutions.
41.       The ERDC will be managed by a governing body, chaired by the Min-
ister of Education, which will include strong representation from the MOE,
representatives from the University of Sanaa, other ministries and/or govern-
ment entities which are involved in training, and highly qualified indepen-
dent members. The ERDC is designed to be financially independent so that
compensation and personnel policies can be made sufficiently attractive to
hire, to the extent possible, Yemeni staff of adequate quality at salaries
similar to those provided by the University of Sanaa, which is also finan-
cially independent. The day-to-day administration of ERDC would be the
responsibility of a Director who will be assisted by an Assistant Director,
the heads of the technical units and a technical and organizational advisor
who would be appointed by January 1982 and would be financed under this pro-
ject. Moreover, local specialists/fellows are expected to be seconded to
ERDC from the University and MOE for specific research and development pro-
jects, assuring positive interactions between the three institutions. The
issuance and publication of the decree for the establishment of the ERDC,
granting it a quasi autonomy status for setting staff salaries and determin-
ing the scope of its operations, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).



- 13 -
42.       The MOE has already identified the priority work programs of the
ERDC. These include: (i) establishment of a system for the measurement of
productivity and efficiency of primary schools; (ii) study of the supply and
retention of Yemeni teachers; (iii) review and revision of curricula for
teacher training and vocational/technical education; and (iv) preparation of
an educational facilities inventory and a school location plan to deal pri-
marily with the inequity of opportunity for schooling. The Government has
agreed to provide the results of these work programs to the Association for
review and comments (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.08).
Boarding Facilities for Students of PTTIs and VTCs
43.       Although there is a considerable shortage of Yemeni primary school
teachers, the enrollment in the 25 existing PTTIs is only one-tbird of the
capacity of these institutions. To remedy this situation, the Government has
raised the salaries of Yemeni teacbers (March 1981) to make the profession of
teaching attractive and is providing PTTI trainees with additonal incentives.
A major problem faced by PTTI students in most towns and cities is the diffi-
culty of obtaining lodging with local families who may be often from a dif-
ferent tribal group. To eliminate this problem, the project provides for the
construction of boarding facilities for 216 PTTI students at the towns of Ibb
and Dhamar.
44.       The need to provide boarding accommodations for the trainees at the
VTCs is also pressing because of the difficulties faced by the trainees in
obtaining lodging with non-relative families and scarcity of a cheap reliable
public transportation system. Construction of boarding facilities for the
VTC at Sanaa will commence soon with the Government's own resources. The
proposed project provides for the construction of boarding facilities for 216
trainees at the Hodeidah and Taiz VTCs; the two VTCs commenced operation in
October 1980 with a first year enrollment of 40 at Hodeidah and 80 at Taiz
although the planned first year enrollment were 140 and 160 respectively. In
order to monitor progress of training at PTTIs and VTCs and utilization of
facilities, the government has agreed to provide IDA annually, starting
December 1983, the data on total enrollment, number of annual admissions,
examination passing rates and numbers of students residing in the hostels for
each of the PTTIs and VTCs (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).
Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplement Fund (TTSSF)
45.       In 1980, all 102 teacber trainers at the PTTIs were expatriates.
The MOE has taken steps to build up by 1986 a force of 175 Yemeni teacher
trainers at the PTTIs through a Masters Degree in Education (see para. 28).
Despite the recent salary increases announced for all levels of teachers in
the MOE system, it is likely that these teacher trainers will still be
attracted by higher teacher salaries at the University of Sanaa or at uni-
versities and schools at neighboring countries, as well as by the private
sector in YAR and abroad. Therefore, in order to retain a larger number of
qualified Yemeni teacher trainers, the TTSSF component of the project would



- 14 -
help finance a fund that would allow the MOE to grant each qualified PTTI
teacher trainer posted at a PTTI, a monthly salary supplement amounting to
about 20 percent of the basic salary. All qualified Yemeni teacher trainers
in the country, including particularly the USAID trained teachers, will bene-
fit from the TTSSF. The total amount, including contingencies, to be allo-
cated to the TTSSF under the proposed credit is $0.5 million to be paid into
the TTSSF on a phased basis over five years. An initial payment of $50,000
into the TTSSF would be made by the Association on receipt from the Govern-
ment of (a) recruitment and selection procedures to hire Yemeni teacher
trainers for all PTTIs acceptable to the Association and (b) a list of
eligible trainers and their qualifications (Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 4, paragraph 1). Subsequent payments into the TTSSF would be made
semi-annually on the basis of actual expenditures.
46.       A mid-term evaluation will be conducted during academic year 1984/
1985 to assess the effect of the TTSSF in attracting Yemeni teacher trainers
into the PTTIs and the resulting improvement in the educational efficiency of
the PTTIs. The Government has agreed to take the necessary steps by June
1984 to incorporate progressively the salary supplement expenditures into the
recurrent expenditure budget of the MOE for fiscal year 1985, leading to full
budgetary provisions of such expenditures for fiscal year 1987 (Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraphs 2 and 3).
Faculty of Engineering
47.       The large shortage of engineers which is expected to prevail
throughout the 1980s necessitates that YAR establish its own Faculty of
Engineering, particularly because of the growing difficulty of placing Yemeni
students abroad, the relatively small number of graduated returnees and the
high cost of studying abroad (see paras. 31-33). The proposed project pro-
vides the University of Sanaa with assistance to establish the Faculty of
Engineering by financing the requirements in the initial period, 1982-84,
which include provisions for the (i) design of physical facilities for a
total of 750 student places in the departments of civil, mechanical and elec-
trical/electronic engineering; (ii) construction and equipping of the depart-
ment of civil engineering; and (iii) technical assistance for staffing the
department of civil engineering (10 man-years) and the training of Yemeni
faculty (300 man-months of fellowships) for the Faculty of Engineering as a
wbole.
48.       Because of the urgent need for engineers, particularly civil engi-
neers, the University of Sanaa would start enrolling students for civil engi-
neering in the fall of 1982. Since the physical facility for this department
is not expected to become operational until the Fall of 1984, during the
first two years, general sciences and matbematics courses will be taken at
the faculties of Arts and Sciences and workshop courses at Sanaa's Technical
Secondary School and VTC. The training course would comprise 10 semesters of
16 weeks each. Thus, the initial class of civil engineers will graduate in
1987. Moreover, it is expected that the graduated Yemenis will seek employ-
ment in their country as opportunities for engineers in YAR are considerable.



- 15 -
49.       The Government has agreed to ensure that the curricula for the
Faculty of Engineering will continue to reflect the developmental needs of
YAR. Towards this end, the Government has agreed that the Board of Studies
of the Faculty of Engineering will have at least two representatives from
relevant technical ministries/government entities (for example, Ministry of
Public Works and Central Planning Organization (CPO)) and employer organiza-
tions (for example, Yemen General Electric Corporation and Tihama Development
Authority) (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.05). Furthermore, due to
the presence of a large number of Yemeni engineering students abroad, the
Government has agreed to establish by December 1982 at CPO a system to moni-
tor and evaluate annually the Government supported out-of-country training of
Yemeni engineering degree students (Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.04). In addition, the University of Sanaa would prepare not later than
June 1984, and forward to the Association, an interim assessment report on
the establishment of the Faculty of Engineering (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.06).
Implementation
50.       The proposed project will be implemented over a period of five and
one-half years. The Minister of Education will designate a senior MOE staff
as the Coordinator for the project components relating to the ERDC, boarding
facilities and TTSSF, and the University of Sanaa will designate one of its
senior staff as the Coordinator for the Faculty of Engineering component.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in the MOE under the
earlier IDA education projects would have responsibility for the architec-
tural services for the ERDC and student boarding, as well as for associated
bidding and construction supervision. The architectural design and construc-
tion supervision for the Faculty of Engineering would be undertaken by an
architectural/engineering firm, under the overall control of the Technical
Department of the University of Sanaa. One man-year of equipment specialist
services bave been included under the project for the preparation of detailed
equipment lists and specifications and associated bidding documents required
for the Faculty of Engineering, including the Department of Civil Engineer-
ing. The PIU, because of its familiarity with Bank procedures, will assist
the University's Technical Department in equipment procurement and the main-
tenance of separate project accounts. Project accounts would be audited
annually and the audit report sent to IDA within four months of the end of
each fiscal year (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02).
Project costs and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about $18.2 million equivalent, of which about 61 percent, or $11.1
million equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. These esti-
mates, adjusted to reflect November 1981 prices, are based on prices quoted
in current contracts of goods and works awarded under the second and third
education projects. The project is exempt from taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent for civil works, furniture and equipment, and
5 percent for technical assistance were assumed in developing the cost



- 16 -
estimates. Price contingencies for the period 1982-87 have been applied to
all items (civil works, furniture and equipment, and technical assistance) at
rates varying between 12 and 22 percent per annum for items locally procurred
and between 6 and 10 percent per annum for items subject to foreign procure-
ment. The price contingencies for local procurement items reflect the high
rate of inflation in recent years, particularly in furniture and equipment,
construction and wages. The base costs related to the principal components
are $5.9 million for the Faculty of Engineering, and $4.8 million for ERDC.
Experts' services of about 360 man-months have been costed at about $8,700
per man-month, including air travel, subsistence and overhead. All experts
would be hired by the Government.
52.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 10.2 million (approximately $12.0
million equivalent), represents about 66 percent of total project costs. The
credit will finance the foreign exchange requirements of all project compo-
nents, the principle local costs of the ERDC's priority work programs, and
the disbursed local costs of the phased TTSSF. The Government would finance
the remaining local costs of $6.2 million equivalent or 34 percent of the
total project costs. The external financing requirements beyond 1984 for
completing the remaining departments of the Faculty of Engineering are esti-
mated at about $20 million. The Government will complete the work either
with the assistance of external financing or from its own resources (Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 4.07).
Procurement
53.       Civil works contracts for the ERDC (about $3.2 million) and the
department of civil engineering (about $2.8 million) would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines; it is anticipated that the contract for the Department of Civil
Engineering will be awarded to a foreign construction company. Civil works
contracts amounting to $2.7 million, for relatively simple and dispersed
boarding facilities which are not expected to attract foreign bidders, would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding following procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association and do not exclude foreign bid-
ders. Contracts for furniture and equipment ($2.9 million) in excess of
$50,000 would be awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for ICB. Small
items or groups of items, estimated to cost less than $50,000, or items which
must be compatible with other equipment under ICB or items of a specialized
nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under normal
government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA, and would include, to
the extent possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppli-
ers; the total value of furniture and equipment so procured would not exceed
$0.35 million equivalent which would represent about 12 percent of the esti-
mated furniture and equipment costs including contingencies. Similar proce-
dures would be applicable to consumable materials for laboratories and
offices, not exceeding $0.15 million. Books and printed instructional mate-
rials, not exceeding $0.05 million, would be purchased directly from publish-
ers or authorized distributors at the lowest negotiated prices. A 15 percent
preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in evaluating bids under ICB.



- 17 -
Disbursement
54.       The proceeds of the proposed credit, to be disbursed over a five
and one-half year period, would finance (a) civil works, 50 percent of expen-
ditures; (b) furniture, equipment and books, 100 percent of the foreign ex-
penditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured items, and 85 percent of local expenditures for items procured
locally (off-shelf); (c) technical assistance and training, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures; (d) ERDC priority work programs, 100 percent of
expenditures; and (e) phased PTTI teacher trainers salary supplement fund,
100 percent of amounts disbursed.
Project Benefits
55.       The main benefits expected to accrue from the proposed project
would be:
(a) improved institutional educational planning and programming capa-
bility in the short term, tbrougb the implementation of ERDC's
priority work programs and, in the long term, througb in-service
and fellowship training of some 40 professional ERDC staff by 1986;
(b) accelerated growth of a qualified Yemeni teaching force at the
PTTIs to 175 teacber trainers by 1986 with impacts on the cultural
adaptation of the education system and on an increase in numbers of
Yemeni primary school teacbers;
(c) increased output of skilled workers from two existing VTCs working
at their full enrollment capacity of about 600, through the provi-
sion of boarding facilities for the trainees; and
(d) meeting nearly 75 percent of YAR's annual demand for engineers by
1991 through relatively low-cost in-country training at the Faculty
of Engineering.
A spill-over benefit of establishing a Faculty of Engineering in YAR would be
the availability for the first time in the country of laboratory facilities
that can be used to address problems of special relevance to YAR sucb as
hydrology, irrigation structure models, materials testing and performance
testing of water pumping and electrical machinery.
Risks
56.       Project risks relate to possible Government delay in (a) legisla-
tive action granting the ERDC a quasi autonomy status for setting staff sala-
ries and determining the scope of its operations; and (b) obtaining the nec-
essary external financing requirements beyond 1984 for completing the Faculty
of Engineering (para. 52). These risks are minimized to some extent by the
Government's commitment to establish and support these institutions and by
the Government and IDA agreement during negotiatons on the draft decree for
establishing the ERDC. The Government also informed IDA that it intends to



- 18 -
issue and publish the said decree by January 1982 and that it would simul-
taneously allocate the necessary funds to enable ERDC to commence its opera-
tions immediately. Moreover, assurances were obtained that the necessary
funds would be made available for completing the Faculty of Engineering, and
recent experience suggests that several outside donors would be interested in
providing continued support to YAR for this priority venture.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of'the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in the Section III of Annex III. Issuance of legislation for
the establisbment of the Educational Research and Development Center has been
made an additional condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 30, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-19 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF              REFERENCE GROPS (WEIGHTED AVE  GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOSTI RECENT ESTIMATE)t
TUTAL            195.0                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      85.7                                MoST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 Jb ESTIMATE lb          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AKERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    ..          ..      420.0                865.5                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XIWGRAMS OF CUAL EQUIVALENT)        7.4        17.8      73.1                 758.3                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULATIUN, MHD-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4039.0       4835.0    5693.0
URBAN POPULATIUN (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.4         6.0        9.8                 45.2                    64.2
PUPULAT1ON PRUJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.1
STATIONARY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                        22.0
YEAR STATlNMARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       20.7        24.8      29.2                  36.3                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     48.0        56.8      65.1                 442.7                    94.5
POPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.4        43.0      45.6                  44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         54.4        53.9      51.2                 52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         3.1       3.2                   3.4                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         1.8       1.8                   2.7                     2.4
URBAN                              7.8         7.5       7.2                   4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     49.6        48.7      47.1                  41.5                    31.4
C(RUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.7        26.4      23.1                  12.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.5       3.2                   2.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ALCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX UF FUOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         119.0        84.0      95.0                 96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALURIES (PERCENT OF
REI)UIkEMENTS)                  d8.0        78.0      91.0                 110.4                   107.6
PROUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         69.0        57.0      68.0                 73.4                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        15.0      19.0                  17.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     53.9        47.9      40.6                  14.9                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9        38.6      42.1                 55.9                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..          ..        ..                   ..                     70.9
ACCESS TU SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..         4.0       4.0                 59.4                     65.7
URBAN                               *-        45.0      30.0                 83.9                     79.7
RURAL                               ,,         2.0       2.0                 40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TU EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATIUN)
IUTAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     30.4
POPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN              ..     22126.1   12459.8               4174.5                   1728.2
POPULATIUN PER NURSING PERSON         ..          ..    5656.2               1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATIUN PER HUSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2901.0      1552.0    1994.3                647.4                    471.2
URBAN                               ..          ..     255.6                547.2                    558.0
RURAL                               ..          ..  30136.1                 3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HUSPITAL BED           ..          ..      16.2                 25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE bIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..       5.0
URBAN                               ..          ..       4.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                               ..          ..       2.8
URBAN                               ..          ..        .8/C
RURAL                               ..          ..       3.1
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..      56.51c
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 20 -
AiNNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA  ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          NORTH EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0        12.0      29.0                  85.1                    101.7
MALE                  14.0        23.0      50.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                0.4          2.0       7.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.1.        1.0       4.0                  38.0                     35.3
MALE                   ..          2.0       8.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                 ..          0.1       1.0                  28.3                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0        5.0/d               11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0        51.0       38.0/d               34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                          17.0        24.o      18.0/d                23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         3.0         10.0/e    13.0                 43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..         ..                 18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..        14.0       18.3                121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ,.        ..                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        11.6         ..                 35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        1.0                  3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1225.7      1361.8    1439.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3.7         4.5        5.2                 10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.0        79.0      76.3                  43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0         9.0       10.9                 27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.3        28.2       25.3                 26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 57.7        55.0       50.2                 47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                2.3         2.5        2.5                   5.7                    14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.6       1.9                   1.8                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                            ..                 ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                271. 4
RURAL                                ..          ..      100.0                144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..                 400.8                    513.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      83.0                 290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                 22.1
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                 29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   In the major cities of Sanaa, Tatz and Hodaidah; /d 1975; /e 1973.
May, 1981



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Pa~ge3 o0f 5-
DEFINITIONS OF SOCILl INDICATORS
Note.:  Although the dnt tsr. dcon frnn eoi ...enea.. judged the suet nuthoritsti-e and reliable, it  ludasoheoted char they ep ant he intr
natio-nlly competahel because of thrlac  of utuoeoied deftlir.ad.ocet.uedb                        .dfern   nutisit.colectngihe data.  The data  e,Ire
thelees, usfui to de..criheode      _ofn iltode, indicate trends,and chracteriec cetain  ajor differaccee                  ..  h .ne .ncoutr'ie.t
The refoneoce  roups .it (17  he same  ..u.cr  eroup uf the sub ..tcunry  ad (01 . countr~y group nith esesohes higher  -neneg  in-e  than the.ectt ru
ofThesbettuey(sptfr"aiolrpu    i tuporner" gEosph:r  "Middle Inco..e North Afric.ansd Middle fast" is oh...s be-u-  of seae
enl-uioe   ffinities).  Crtereeec  gopd th            theI T  avrgserPoplation reighted neithestic means fee each indicetor and shon  nely ehss
majoitd  o -th  conties toe  grou  hahaef te.niao.,in   h   eee o   ontisaagosidctr  depends cc the aniebltpe  dt
erd is non  nSeen, cauion noel h  enercinedin octet ingsore  of one indio-tor isaohrtheeaees  are orlY usefol to coepering the. _neue e.ft
naindicator on e ties acIng tAr c-ortoy end referen.tC greops.
105 bn ARA(ihou...od ei.                                                                          Poltrncr  nyea ,                tetl,or atsnd  orurl - Popolenln  toes
Totel1   Totagfcarea.copriging lard tree and inlendoaners.                                        urha, and ruralj)diided by thier reepec-ine saber ef hosPite  hsde
AgriLUlntr      E.itiane of agri-oulnrsl  -oe  oted tesporarily or permnenly                      -nalable in publIc endH.pninere gesraltendiepsoislicd hospital and re-
fo rPa, pasnures, eskthe  and kitchen gundos or to lio  ftllc; 19T  dato.                  babilitati- centers.Hopice: er. s eetblsirte permnetly staffed
by at laan one physician, Eatabllshencet pooridiaj principally ..esne-
0t   r   dOT   ct>-c7pe   od   etnicoose ne iuoret  ra rke  prices. ml-                             dial oars  re notincluded   coral hospitals,hoverr, ieelude health
ialsnd by  see tnveGsion e-tnd ta Acrid Book ute   (197-_79 1ass)   0h.                     an    eiclmnrs ret petrasently staffedbyaphysician  (hen by
1970, end 1979 dete.                                                                             sedical e-inrn       .os,  ideifa,e,tc.) ehftiheflfr- is-patIf        I st
dartb e. nd provide a limited range o  aedi.lo    aolte          .e  slants-
tNERt 01CONgiyFTlON too CAPIIA - Auro.al cI....tc o..f cteeco   neg   ca                             ice1 porp..ee ether hesoPit.sl  ieluds egOs.osis/esa  hespitels,
and lignite, ptnrlnom, natuva  gs.aton  bydro-  nucea  ed g.etber`e  cio-ed rural hoepiteiglacaI- on toe1 hospitals and seicel end meteenity
triot ty)t  bin oraeIf c-el rqi-l-t per cpe;1900, 1970, and 1979                                 cenr.Spoctelired hospitals are ienladd oely under it.tl.
date.                                                                                          Adeteelons err fosettlBe  - Tnte  num.ber  f aduissiore te or dietbeeges
teca hsitals diiedbche newe  ef beds.
'SIbTION Nil VITAL ITATISTICS
tel Ppcletios. Mid-Yrar Inhb.....ds) - Ae of July 1; 1900, 1970, and 1979                  HOUINGH
ate.                                                                 kner~~~~~~~~~~~~a-ne Sine of Household (peron  pet hoeshod) - real   rbn,ad  url
1anP  tulaio  foon-et of "teto   - Raclo of urban no nona1 pupolanion;                     A houehl  cossso               M ru  ofinioda   nc  shor.      iig       tn
differn    eiito-o   rbnaesna   f  c  csnsitt   fdt                                            aud their ears seals.  A hoardrr or ledger sa,,.,y  1   y or say set he tledd ie
esucenriee; 1Hi,1)06       sd199dae                                                       tha household for statisticapuoss
erulerict trefoonissa                                                A..ra,anehr  f  erne  eree-nrl.abas. andenl - Aveag  as-
toa   epl1 u  byoage and sos and thol    otlt   n  fertility ine..delns  res.pectinely.  Dwellinge eolode so-prmeent strctures. and
PrJeciepemeoafr rtality rts  oyte   f  he   lef    eae                                      unocuie  ~Per
leg lit. eAp....n ic   nrasn    u    onrysprr  in    on                                     oe. to El.troricitytentofdal )-ttl,tb,adrrl-
level, and freole  lfe eccectaoy1, erbilining at 77.5 yeere.  The p...-                      C",eoie  dwliglith, eleitrioty  to 1iving qsntree as Peretage
cetr  ttferiiy Irc             chr   hree Irve.. stmin   do-lico in                          of sn.ie, uran, onros  deellirge ree portire1y.
fn-tilityecor toc  micno len .. snd past tartly piercing p-rtf- -ir
Eiot  -oacry i. then se          I_o    o  of tre_  niro  _ coetoetn- of vority          tUtATION
and tertility creeds for pr-jrocto  pu-poens.                                              Adjusted tEolleect Ranier
Staioay   o              _lcieII tetaionvy ppuoto   hero in -v groth sin.n                     Pi_rt school - tonl. msr and femel  - Grres Yten1, sale and feml
the birth rate Jt oqu-1c r.ho doath rote,Iad 01ev thr g.           tutr  re-                   Inolss   f  il agne st rho prisary lerr  as psromteges of e-pe-tt'e
eaotoctct   It  in a-hnved ony aftr frslty rtne  deoltor no                           pr:imay schoo-.     Pp.ploti...; unntely iclndes ohildrae aged h-li
the.P. --luemn  ln-I of colt -m  -rpr-du-ti   rate,  h-t each  yaeto:er  hnt sdjneted for different lengths of primary edertnia; too
oeerrelcsitnl -   orty.  Th  esi,ocary p           tynlto   sillus                   coos  ties nith u-ine- l  dcain-aole    say aired 100 percent
estiested ont nbc hoct  f the  rjreI          hroe  sieo  the popXacio                         aic   05puils are heln or ahons te offIcial  hnboe  s..
io the,year 20f0, and the rane of dnolinn of foritlity rat  to replete-                      Seodayah"o      oa,sl   n   san-Cmee   saoe   eedr
sent lvl,eucto   iquie  en leas...t four peers of appre_d primary i--nrutios;
Yea  stationery cpla cis rnacbhd - The pee   h-e ttnoaypopulation                                 prvder ceerl  nonnia.  or teachertrainig isettertios   fc orpopib
siee boa beet r-nhcd.                                                                          usuall'y'of 11 to 1)l pests  f age.;t_orospondsue oo-oe  are gemrally
.Perolaioc Poesirs                                                                                  esooded.
Per sq. ka, - tid-yser populatloo Per eqare kilonoce   (100 h-ct-re) of                        voca tional -rrrleont foe-.teo  of serondsrry  - VocatipeI Icetitutiene
scte1 ares  19600  1970 and 1979 dunn.                                                         tinled. technical, idere,o              n  pogramswhiob ecrea te isdeysnd-
Pep an. hak-   rcltpi.tod - Cue puted  a above fur ariutuallrd                                   natty  -r as depscntentn of asoodery institution.
only ; 1960. 1970 nod 19 70 dana.                                                            Puotl-nssho  Panic - reinar, end snood-ry - Toteln1            et  enrolld is
Posittt As  trctrefrrctot  - Cibldrec  (0-14 years). eurhieg-ags 715-                          P-isey an :trsdr  tor. drided  hp sumber of nesihore is rho
06 ynovt  *2 end vcir   (65 pevY     sdoe)esptt Iue    f mi-onpp.crepnl lnIIs.
latiee; 1960. 1970, sad 1979 dor.'                                                             Adult lIteay  oe    rce..t- Ltirerun  A4cltn feb10 to reed sad -eite)
Populne crthi Rate (percent) -total - Aosua1 groeth Ytart  of rtotl eld-                            uas.P_rree ga  ef itetl adult ppynlotion egd 05 years andevr
yea. oe. tcsfo  1950-602 196-70, end 1970-79.
PrsiOr Ithne  Rat  foeron.sti     .a-ho_..l groorh rates of urban popo-                CONSUotftTiu
Ulufion   for 1950-HO, 1960-70, ced 197 0-79.                                                Psesnoer  Cute (ttthnue   erlntn               Paeange  oars o-rins senor
Crude bitb Ra    Pr ohoed) - -hone  lire birtba pet thousand of nid-ysar                         ceresnarin lee  thor nigbt persons; enclodessblese  hearses And
pouain;10,19fI    n  1979 dae                                                           ilitary -ehiole..
C-nde Oesth tt  frtoh-usend) - A..nuI deaths per thoeaoda of mid-year                          Radio  envr   tt nsoso   oyoltto    - All typesIf receivers for obie
popuectie;  96f0 97.e 1       179 dot.                                                         brodes ccgnR alpbIcf e  thoossed of  popateios;netledaon
Gross Hev-dnrtio  Ran-Avtaecobr of doughtereaot  ill heat 1                             ir        ios d resein-re in               autre   nd in years eh.. egiertior  f rdi
her s.-ea   prerdut- period It she.sete ePt..e.tag-pcif ir f.. no                              stsns  Inffteeon' dee  toe  sresI  pests say sot He ..mPe...ble etess
tllityratn...; .ueesl    five-pee  avrae  muet  1900, 1970, aed 1979.eaneatisboshdieseg
Feilly PLeactoc - A..ePtore, Ab_nnet  fhoeds) - uAtual ouho   finacceptors                     TVP R.is-rst  fPre thosad roesltien) - TVretos tee brondissr it
nf birth-....tro1 denicen under auspices of national fasily periog prgree.                     geceral public per tho..e  peyolstter;  ntlodee urlice.s.   TV rceivers
Easiy ysic-O r   (percon  of mapvied eceo  - Prcntg  nsrrind                                     toin   orn  adin yenta whe"rginono If TV sets we  Ia effec t.
-nos  ofch'ild-b rrngao  1-4bpsstrooe hib-onrndeiceste                                       ONotepepr C.locltc  (I'rotZnboeoedronlono)             S hoes the averagec e-
all ma ried wome   in..o. age group.                                                            ulantor, of "deally geceral(etra  ceepeper". defined aen.pertedicel
pnliottisn de..crnd priaaily is recrding geseei Iens.  It is cons.iderd
rcOOD ANit NUTRiTION                                                                               no he "daily" if It appears en Ice.t f-er  tim..ean..ek.
fAdes of Pond Prodoctior per Cach   )19%a9-7100) -             Ine   f pet coiaoul             Cts.dne  neons   e piita pe.-cot-BHosd on the  -ushe  of
produIction of  1l  foodCondtr.  Produtios ceeene   n  feed an                                 tickets sold dorieg rho year, Ii.lodiag admiesieo  to drie-ia cIfess
inocaedr yoer hence. CoadinitecIvrr prtinry godele.                   Yngr=n              ad mobileut.
i.ereed of eugr) ohtob at  edible end contin  urirs   o. coffee and
tee ore encludedi.  Agorruete ~produottun of  .sh country is bear.d cc            fALOR FORCEf
cotocIavruo    rd-c-r pric                  19i6te   it-65, 1970, and 1979 date.             Tne-l Lob.r Porte. )nho...IA) -  -roo-inly -otc- pees . tclodieg
Per coeite nurply of calor ies (porc,n   freorni)- Computd    oeamed  fero.a. an  ocd sylped bus ro.unding houeie,sudns.n.
roerIgy eculales  oretI    foo  eoppliesend l  Is countr  Pe- cato                            oern  poultio  of all ears.   ftfintrn  inetotonrlnr
per day.  Areilblo    P epirn copn.iodmetic rodcIon                 1t tre-o  comparable; 19600. 1970aund 1979 dstI.
esoos,ud oesgcs io snook.  ret aupplios occlude anima  f-adj, seeds                      reae(eie) - P l  labor force.   pecntgIf rotu1 lebor forc..
qust~ritte  need is food P-oceaaidg,_ood loners On dlottibuioo Itqie                         ruorforo)- i.bur force in fstmtg. forestry, horning esd
meie noeorId        dbyrObndo  phyololodiia  coeds fu  normal eCt-                           finhing as per-etas  o If total labor force; 1900, 1970 cod 1979 data,
nnYanhelh.vede.          c   Ircaeoa  rapsotro, body rIghts, eg                           ndsr  fnoet   Itho  foror isseig  conroio, rfertorieg
sod s.o di.rtloioro  pouaio,cd ulr    10 peronr for rusts  t                                 and electricIty, coercd  Ru  a .porceoeg  of total lebor fero-; 1900,
bhneehold ls-nl  1901-HI, 1970, and 1977 dsro.                                                197  sod 1979 dato.
Pro curios supply oIfpoti  (nem  our day) -Protsio cIrntet of Per. topta                     Prticirutio    aefrre     -ttl  maIn, and femle - Pernripecisao
ca  epply of food per day.  Net  upply of food it dofl-nd as ahon.  it-                    unninity rtera  t             Itpoeda  tonl, mae,er  fet  lbrfoce
qorerte for allc.. retoten ent hlibd by csSu prode fo  siin                                eceae    f rotl  Sale and fes1l  poploc   f  l   gsr...p.cti_ey;
alloweIcc  o f 00 gru-  of rIIeP" prcir Per dup Id 20 grm If animal end                      1960, 1970  ad 1979 dsts.  Three are be..nd us tLO'n p-ticiptosae
pulse protein, of oblc  10 foams should be aImo  Prs... S_hout stand-            reflecting eg.-a.. .turntre of the pupu1etion, and tong timeted-
erde are loser than cAnoe of 75 grant of cocc  protin ed 27 goame of                         ferre lient.  err from eetine... no...
onie  prti.     u   rvoaIfo   h ..r...prposd b  AO i  heTird                               tooicDopeod-noy Ratio  - Rteia of population  rder 10 tnd 65 Ined over
Worldi food Sorvep; 190'1-0.'1970 cod 1977 d_o1oth   oa  labor forc..
Per carinsa  roet  tpelo 0 ran aIelsdpse-Protein spply of food do
tie    rcesiml  and p        ngoeprdy  190 1-As, 1970 and  977 dare.                 IrCOrot pITcnBUpcot
ihild fe... 1-4)MOctallty Rare fpernktosd(  - Ancoal deahsper   .....ed itn                     ecoao.fPiooIcr   bt  ntn   n   id      orvdb   nbs
age group 1-4 ynere. to children in ohIs ago groay; far soo. de-nnicyng coo-                                                                                  ..ero.rccc2   ere,pors   0pret   n   ore  40prcn
tries dora derived tone lite tables; 1900, 1970 nod 1979 dora.                                 ofpbousebtlde. -I  ~r-,- t  0p.r    .p                                       I
er bntl  190,  970and1979 dTh.no fhal.e11                                                                   onreo-c1   oco-loeshl  ru Ior,               .ty1-
rftagendot rhoIneod hoc hitiki.
Arcane         t on ...f d Wate   biorothc.c aio. -uu,ubn   udrrl-tra                           Absolete p-vety itcueo leve  ie that iso        _lve  below rbth a mcnieel
A).L,Z t!!'                              ,d .... 1                        _t~~~~~~~~~~~corintinl1y adequate diet Plus aneoi   o-fond  -eqir-met  is non
her of people  tnl  ube   o  turd   rink runoebl  sr.noefffardeble,
nee   uply jirtude l   and    es cor  otters It oct-eted but .....ntuminted             Ertinied HeletivePoer   O         eLvlfi)terpr)- orbe  mad rurl1
sae  eaha   htfc   ntrc    oeoe,errg,adortv    tl)u                                            ua   eeiep-not  income loonin ..o-trd oftave.Rag  per repine
feoer  reudpoct braced so   ern than 200  -e-r  fror  hous.        y be                peenlirveo   brutoy.  pebu  level is derivd ft.. tic e rnrs
f .. I.i.d                                                             I.-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lee  with edjoetmas  fer big her cost of living in urbee aras
Pecoonsl oucoso n-d _coyl  tuo  hr ho...r-ifo bonnh-  o  the ho...eho1d                  end rua  - Prcent If populotton forbes and Iror1) uho urn  sal
do  -c hove to opnv    dnvcoroc     crIf Ott day it f_hio .r                                   yu"
faily' none   Prd
Number of peaplo  (nco,    -rbr        ..drael)te..   by  --tre   diaPos.l.so
th  cllcioc snd dlepoaal, conh i   l u  t          -teev, of huma  osrt cooi   o  ndlln  Otisi
aod   eteues  by  cr-borsoaor choos o.   f cit princes and aisto                                                             EtoIo..w.ur Asloeed  toetonTpruo
Oar t..a...iva                                                                                                                                     ry 19(1
Pooeunpr Phoeon     Pplro  dlvidod by -orber of practlisig phyai-
moo q..i.    e  fcameilschool et a-i-scty level
tvalctcprifrsn  trd       c  Poaeid    Oc-ddd by ouhr  fprriot
sae  r  fPsl  grdautnrse,-         tnci  aae   o   eesatus



- 22 -                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1/               (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)           FY1973-79      FY1979
GNP at Market Prices                  3810                    11           -4
GDP at Market Prices                  2800                     8            9
Gross Domestic Investments             900                    19           10
Gross National Savings                 524                    13          -40
Exports of GNFS                         56                    -3          -23
Imports of GNFS                       1441                   21            24
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
Value Added    Resident Labor Force 2/  V.A. Per Worker
USt Mln       %    Tbousand         %       US$         %
Agriculture             1000      38        1450        76          690       50
Industry                350       14         150         8         2330      170
Services               1250       48         300        16         4170      300
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2600      100        1900       100         1370      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRIs Mln)
% of GNP
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1978/79
Current Receipts                1293      1985      2161     2692          13
Current Expenditure              841      1250      1847      2430         11
Current Deficit/Surplus          452       735       314       262          2
Capital Expenditure              603      1167      2618     2426          15
External Assistance, Net         606       691      1904       976         11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRIs Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    3516      5081      6273      7382
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -939        -990      -609      1199
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        1474      1555      2199     2830
------Percentages or Index Numbers----
Money Supply at % of GNP          30        33        37       n.a.
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                  73        45        23       18
Consumer Price Index          26        17        22       11
1/  Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accounts
series has recently been revised by the Government, and will be
reported on in a forthcoming CEM.
2/  Includes part-time female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Us$ Mln)
1973/74  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob              14       12        19         7          3
Imports of Goods, cif           -194      -382      -730      -906    -1,405
Trade Balance                   -180      -370      -711      -899    -1,402
Non Factor Services, net           14       21       -10       -21         19
Factor Income, net               117       479       896      1160       1007
Workers' Remittances, net   (112)    (457)    (842)   (1090)           (898)
Investment Income, net          (5)      (22)      (54)      (70)     (109)
Balance on Current Account       -49       130       175       240      -376
M & LT Capital, net               62       153       146       165        435
Official Grants                 33       114       104       103       312
Official Loans, net 1/          29        39        42        62       123
Disbursements                (32)      (42)      (46)     (68)      (133)
Repayments                   (-3)      (-3)      (-4)     (-6)      (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   10         -11       133      -32        144
Increase in Reserves (-)         -23      -272      -454     -373       -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 2/       150       520       974      1347       1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, 1979                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
Total Outstanding            1,603          Cotton and Cotton Products        31
of which disbursed             727          Coffee                            13
Hides and Skins                  14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1980 3/                  Biscuits and Confectionary         9
All Other Commodities            33
x                                               100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                    1
1/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/  Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
3/  Includes workers' remittances and transfers.
EMIDB
January 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of September 30, 1981 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number Year      -Borrower               Purpose                    IDA    Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed 2/                       55.2
465   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                   2.3         0.4
545   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                  10.0         0.8
559   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage           8.1         0.1
611   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Education II                        8.0         1.0
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2             1.6
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0             1.0
670   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage          10.0         3.4
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                    6.0         1.6
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                       11.5        6.3
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II              10.5        6.6
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                 10.0         5.3
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III             15.0        14.9
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                      10.0         8.2
950   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage          12.0        12.0
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV               5.5         5.5
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development              17.0       16.7
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                  17.0       17.0
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Elect.                    12.0       12.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Dev.                    12.0       12.0
Total                                                242.3 1/   126.4
of which has been repaid
Total now beld by IDA                                242.3
Total undisbursed                                                126.4
1/  Excluding $7 million credit for textile rebabilitation project which was
cancelled on October 31, 1979.
2/ Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products         2.4      -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4               2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                  -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4               2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of Marcb 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates
in Taiz and Hodeidah are underway and the Government is seeking further
assistance in this area from the World Bank.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation has been
encouraging. Project implementation bas been delayed by managerial, staff-
ing, and financial problems, some of which still remain. Nevertheless,
these problems are somewhat mitigated by the momentum and scope of the
agricultural extension and credit programs, and the progress in well drill-
ing, and completing the village water supply components. Problems of cost
escalation have been met by an increase in the contributions of the Govern-
ment and beneficiaries, a reduction in the number of loans that can be made
to farmers, and to the extent of the feeder roads component.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the water supply and sewerage works is underway,
and the sewage treatment plant is complete. Transfer of the existing water
system assets from the Port Authority has been effected. The Government is
currently sbortlisting consultants for the completion of the tariff study.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and equipping of project institutions is com-
plete. All twelve institutions are operational. Technical assistance and
staffing needs have been met by the appointment of expatriates from Arab
countries and some progress is now being made in the utilization of the
Basic Training Scheme.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of all project components has been completed; the
grain silo at Hodeidah and the bakeries at Sana'a and Taiz are in opera-
tion. Cost overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for
Development and the Government. The training program is underway.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without chang-
ing the project concept. One dairy farm has been completed, but the live-
stock fattening farm is facing some problems in the supply of irrigation
water. The other physical works, altbough progressing reasonably well at
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouse and animal
health components, in particular, are achieving their aims, and the live-
stock fattening, dairy production, and village development components will
provide valuable research information and development experience for the
livestock sector in YAR. The administrative and technical problems encoun-
tered last year are on the way to being resolved, and project implementa-
tion is making progress.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been awarded. The draft report of the
tariff study has been reviewed by the Authority and is being revised by the
consultant.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Contracts for civil works have now been awarded and construction
is expected to be substantially completed in October 1981, about nine
months behind appraisal schedule. The chief engineer and the electrical
engineer have been appointed. Otber technical staff provided for under the
credit are still to be appointed. The Government is continuing its efforts
to recruit qualified staff in order to strengthen the technical services
department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance
to the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance
practices. Other objectives of the project include the implementation of
vehicle loading controls, planning future highway development and the in-
ception of an overlay program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project
implementation is underway and substantial progress is being made on all
project components.



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for the agricultural development of Wadi Rima
by providing technical assistance in agricultural extension and research,
agricultural credit facilities, access roads, village water supply schemes,
and includes the construction of the Tihama Development Authority Head-
quarters at Hodeidah. The project also provides for gabion test struc-
tures, and funds for UNDP's institutional support to MOA and the central
Agricultural Research Service. Project implementation has been slow but
now shows signs of improvement. The agricultural extension service is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
January 1, 1983
Implementation is underway, and major contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials have been awarded. The rural electrification in-
terim study has been completed. Problems facing YGEC are managerial and
financial. YGEC has secured sufficient funds, from external sources, to
meet the foreign exchange requirements of its current development program.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project includes the construction of irrigation works in Wadi
Mawr; equipping and operating Surdud Agricultural Research and Production
Farm; establishing extension, plant protection and animal bealth services,
and agricultural credit facilities; and provision of technical assistance in
managerial, engineering and aricultural fields. After a delay in declaring
the credit effective, implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
The project aims at constructing and equipping an agricultural
secondary school, a livestock secondary school and two regional banches of
the National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA). In addition, pre-
investment studies will be undertaken of regional basic health care services



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 7
and related training, and of post secondary educational development. Insti-
tutional support to the Ministry of Education and the scbool building unit as
well as related technical assistance have also been included under the pro-
ject. Construction of the agricultural secondary school is completed.
Construction of the livestock secondary school and the two NIPA branches is
underway. Fellowship programs have been drawn up and progressing
satisfactorily. The pre-investment studies relating to post secondary
education bave been completed.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project assists in the construction of water supply and waste-
water systems for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar. It would also provide tech-
nical assistance and training to NWSA staff. Co-financing arrangements have
been finalized. Final designs have been prepared by the consultants, and
hydrogeological studies for Ibb are completed.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation is underway. Contract documents for the construction
of the diversion weirs and canals have finalized. The forestry expert and
the sand stabilization expert have been appointed, and about 800 ha of dunes
have been selected for afforestation.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
After a delay in declaring the credit effective, progress on project
impelmentation is underway. Soil investigations at Hodeidah and Khawbah have
been completed. Contract documents have been prepared for construction of
fisheries facilities at Khawbah, Hodeidah, Mokha, and Kokha.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is an expansion of the successful experience of the
first rural development project in YAR (Credit No. 545-YAR). It aims at
improving farm incomes and the quality of rural like in the rural highlands
of Ibb and Taiz Governorates, and at establishing the regional services of



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 7 of 7
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Credit Bank in the project
area. Co-financing arrangements have been finalized. Project implementa-
tion is underway.
Cr. No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway.
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrificaton Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December-15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is underway.



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sbeet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:    Sixteen months
(October 1979-March 1981)
(b)  The Agencies whicb prepared the project:        Ministry of Education
(MOE) and University of
Sana'a with the assis-
tance of consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:              October 1979
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:         October 21, 1980
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations              December 7, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  May 1982
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
A. Effectiveness Conditions:
Government would issue and publish the decree for the establisbment of
the Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC) (para. 41);
B. The Government would undertake the following measures;
(1) Appoint an advisor by January 1982 to assist the Yemeni Director of
the ERDC in his technical and organizational tasks (para. 41);
(2) Take steps to (a) monitor the effectiveness of the provisions of the
student boarding facilities for the Primary Teacher Training Insti-
tutes (PTTIs) and Vocational Training Centers, and (b) provide IDA
annually with agreed data, commencing from December 1983 (para. 44);



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(3) With respect to the Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplement Fund (TTSSF)
(a) provide information on recruitment and selection procedures to
hire Yemeni teacher trainers for the PTTIs and a list of eligible
trainers to receive salary supplements prior to the initial payment of
$50,000 into the TTSSF, (b) conduct a mid-term evaluation during
academic year 1984/85 to assess the effectiveness of TTSSF in
attracting teacher trainers, and (c) take steps beginning June 1984 to
incorporate progressively the TTSSF expenditures into the fiscal year
1985 recurrent budget of the MOE leading to full budgetary provisions
of such expenditures in fiscal year 1987 (paras. 45-46);
(4) With respect to the Faculty of Engineering, (a) ensure that funds will
be available for the completion of the remaining departments at the
Faculty of Engineering; (b) give appropriate representation on its
Board of Studies from the technical ministries and employer
organizations; and (c) provide to IDA an interim assessment report not
later than June 1984 (para. 49 and 52); and
(5) Establish in the Central Planning Organization by December 1982 a
system to monitor and evaluate annually the out-of-country training of
government-supported Yemeni engineering degree students (para. 49).



IBRD 16013
99*0                   60~~~' 4o4I4                                                                                                                                                     SEPTEMBEE 9901
S A U D I  A R A B I A
DHAHRAN                                                                               YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
50 -              UN i    tihijr5eArte,s; *16 il                        -                    mFOURTH  EDUCATION  PROJECT
56,0                                        D             -u                    'ON>tSi w ./ NAJRAN
_  ' 9' z-  .,   1 .', 9   (.  t,/                                                        *      Student Boording Facility
'I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~  ~~~~ FOC.iny 6t Eng-9ineeg-
Er6,Orfl      ,.     ,              r                                                                                                              \ * CIYil Engineering Department
/r I                                                                                                                  *lHlOP1A  \_SOMAIIA !   '  Js   1  |  Educrationl Research and Developnent Centers
E   404   t Sk   6P         iE                  I ~~~SAMARA                                                                      Po.ed P,..o,y Roads
JIZAN __________________                                     A    o _                                                                 Primary Roads Under Consiruction
JIZAN/4\                                                                                                                   ___\SAADAH  /_Other Roads
<\   \   _ \   ol   SAADAH \                                                            Airports
VBANI                                              0     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CitiesT,oeins and Villages
BERAT 7   1   \   4\   V\VYEAIR   r ~s   Noaionol Capitals
Main ftdis
pl                                                 \                                                    I _Provincial Boundaries
CQ   \   /    ,HARAD          \                  ,nE//1                                   -   -     International Boundaries
'!6                M ,,A1       -                          SHIHAROA        \rI
I) 1 ~~~~HAJJ A                                                                               ,                                                    O- -o .,s'/|  04o 8?0lo
,6               4 1                         ~~~~~         ~~AL    )   HAMER   |KI IIS                                                                     vLOMETERSs
MAID     ABSJ°         \ I°MAIIS- 
o         20   40  0           0          00
MILES
r  , LUMWYAI .            A                              \ZZOHRAN  P                               t ...P..AN                               ,,,,...........
A$ KHUSHM                             LlOOR a                                            MSANA A  3  X.  erAL 
, ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ A B'l    AW                                   --                        ARIB
.'j  z   A    $3d'       t        '            d                    |                        } <                                  /~~~~~~~~~~~O. I
!(~   IF          ZAIDIA          MA      WAA                               OSI
SORDu                                                 HAZYAZP 
r0  (BEIT   ALHAYHy }DAMAR   DAMAR   /RADAA   i                                                        I i  /
X   t                        J}'fi9H B AKHA\  
IJIlAZoALD<                                                                                          HAR ZBI C  B   M T   
BI    JOAH
" LHOD>/' EID;   4
IIABID         U     AB )H                                       '           H
6                         /H
. ~  ~    ~    THI O7                                                                  6  uB  .M&I
ETHIO A                 N S
E~ ~ ~~~~~~~q                                                                                         D EH                      I     CO  P            U A     L I C 
/ \,,,,/
X /                                   X                                                   G UL f  OF  AEN
Z /    D J I B O UTM rAI
/                              N~~~~~~~~~~~~BI
r.






IREARlj:_ G   E AO >   L4EM REP CLF                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'4                                                                      465
llZN\ \   R A N    C
niRRAri Rt,v4@,YEMEN   ARAB  REPUBLIC
ZONSee <    8^8LAIsptxjawt                                                                     IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY  SECTOR
RSA UI ARABIA                                                                                                                                     PROJECTSI
-.3.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.l,t  .
V5R                                                                        +,                                                                       0 R Demonstrtion Forms
..f . X '  - -- Hl                                                                                                                                      ghw y Groin Stoa.ge
, '                      _ toow                                                            E         Z    i     j      i i                         4e      FehrensmsnLe
C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~fAU  12F,sh Morkein
A       Edoo-ti-r
-- -     Highway Mo-te-onc
*       Pnn  Stotio-3
*       Woter Sopply
t,     Port Deo-lopmet
EXISTING FEATURES
G--oernrt, Capitols
®   Nationa Capitals
Secodar Roads
_   .-- 7 J - M   X      _                   <                             tlHAZAAGttLfLT9ER Z              97=3----- Wadi
A i                                                                                     -       Er7oi- ATHLt7 Endar
International B oo-dorie-
A . H I O P I A   \  s7b GR  dx                               v    -ADEN                        ELEVATION  LMeTQr-
Sn                /                                                                                                                POWEH 5L7EjUE11Ti0               l8Xl00
i 4wA SFaCtODElDAFtRss TwNirR tLoR 7fw*                                                                                                                          e /GV lkSR NUF LAEAdRIJFALUEV atPlf tT an  7Fa'  50liw7
A dAn
/                  t          SAt4pL¢; W/a5:e**UEOA R170/1wrPEOPLE'                            OTMOCPATIG bR                   b OF  Y ETA  i'
_Ir                  '                        A-                                                                                   AIS                        _  j'a r
SOaOTHnr naos ANoRURA DEtEoaraTan I  ;tt
-     RolAsnao a                        nr
8.b  I                                                               -ArENnnrrsaana.nr                                         er
E T H. I 0 P I A  M.d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeoR                                                                                            rt
ANiAAWATnSrUoaon SI    rAats9
~~W~~~i  ADFN                                      160~~~~~~~sroant tAoEntRS tyS.tHEEs
D  J I B 0D iJ   I= 1VImagof  Lm-f                                                                                                                                 1
Z=oaaeaor.reAerrrra  m  roa,annras                                           aisOUORIAL DeVRoLaRrN            ea-C



