Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE  COPY
Report No. 3591-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
December 28, 1981
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit                        Yemeni Rials (YRls)
US$1.0                               YRls 4.5
YRls 1.0                             US$0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (in 1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
SCHOOL YEAR
September to June
MEASURES
1m2                                  3.28ft
lm                                   10.76 sq.ft.
1 hectare                            2.47 acres
GLOSSARY
ASS         -        Agricultural Secondary School
CPO         -        Central Planning Organization
DTC         -        District Training Center
ERDC        -        Educational Research and Development Center
FRG         -        Federal Republic of Germany
LDA         -        Local Developmaent Association
MOA          -       Ministry of Agriculture                                             L
MOE         -        Ministry of Education
PIU         -        Project Implementation Unit
PRC         -        People's Republic of China
PTTI        -        Primary Teacher Training Institute
SBU         -        School Building Unit
TSS         -        Technical Secondary School
TTSSF       -        Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplement Fund
UNDP        -        United Nations Development Program
Unesco      -        United Nation's Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
Unicef      -        United Nation's International Children Emergency Fund
USAID       -        United State's Agency for International Development
VTC         -        Vocational Training Center
WHO         -        World Health Organization
YAR         -        Yemen Arab Republic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-economic Background .........................-...... 
Recent Developments in the Education and Training System.             2
Issues Affecting Educational Development and Science-based
Professional Training         ..............   .                    3
Education Finance ...............,                                    7
IDA Lending Strategy for Education and Training.                      8
II.   THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Scope                                    10
B. Project Components                      . . .                     11
Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC).    11
Organization and Administration    .          .11
Work Programs .......................          .             12
Staffing                 . ..13
Training    ...13
Specialist Services             . . .13
Boarding Facilities for the PTTIs and VTCs  ...               14
Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplement Fund (TTSSF)...    14
Faculty of Engineering             . . .15
Enrollments and Outputs ........................".15
4                           Teaching Programs    ..16
Staff Recruitment ...........................                17-
Staff Training   .                   .17
Specialists' Services    .               .17
Monitoring  ..17
Note:     The report is based on the findings of the missions to YAR, during
October/November 1980 and March 1981, composed of Messrs. V. DeSa
(technical educator and mission leader), H. Go (architect), R.
Durstine (education planner), J. Issa (education specialist), S.
Futagami (media specialist) and M. Abdel--Mawgood (general educator).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents  (Continued)
Page No.
III.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.      Projects  Costs  ..........................................                                          19
Summary of Project Cost ..............................                                             19
Base  Cost  .............................................                                          21
Area  Allocations  and  Costs  per  Student  ....                            ............          21
Contingency  Allowances  ................................                                          21
Foreign Exchange Component .............................                                           22
Financing Plan ............. .................... .......                                          22
Recurrent Expenditures .......................                                             .   24
Recurrent  Cost  Implications  ...........................                                         24
Local  Budget  Requirements   .............................                                        24
B.    Project  Implementation  ..................................                                            24
Implementation  Period  .................................                                          24
Administration ..............                                                                       24
Architectural  Services  ................................                                          25
Equipment  Specialist  Services  .........................                                         25
Site  Selection  ........................................                                          26
C.    Procurement  .................                    I    ............................                    26
Local Competitive Bidding ............................                                         26
Civil Works .......................................                                        26
Furniture,  Equipment  and  Consumable  Materials .....                                    26
International  Competitive  Bidding ....................                                        26
Civil Works, Furniture, Equipment .................                                       26
Direct  Purchase  ...................................                                      27
IDA Review and Approval of Procurement
Decisions ............. ...........................                                                27
D. Disbursements ............................                                                                27
Disbursements  .......................................                                          27
Documentation  of  Expenditures  .......................                                        28
Accounts and Audits ..................................                                          28
IV.    BENEFITS, RISKS AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES
A.    Benefits   ...........................................                                         29
B.    Risks  ..............................................                                          29
C. Critical Activities and Key Implementation
Dates  .............................................                                         30
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................                                               32



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Comparative Education Indicators
Annex 2: YAR Education Pyramid 1979/80
Annex 3: Educational Development and Issues
Annex 4: Priority Work Programs of the Educational Research and Development
Center
Annex 5: Table 1:  Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Costs
Table 2:  Unit Capital Costs and Areas per student place.
Table 3:  Technical Assistance Requirements
Table 4:  Contingency Allowances
Annex 6: Table 1:  Summary of Cost of Faculty of Engineering by Components
Table 2:  Financing Plan for the Faculty of Engineering
Annex 7: Chart 1:  Implementation Schedule--ERDC
Chart 2:  Implementation Schedule--Boarding Facilities and TTSSF
Chart 3:  Implementation Schedule--Faculty of Engineering
Annex 8: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. General Report and Studies Relating to Education
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C. Selected Working Papers of the Project
MAP
a~~~~~






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Basic Data (1980)
Population
Estimated Total (mid-1980)                                 6.8 million 1/
Current Rate of Population Growth                          2.9% p.a.
Literacy Rate                                              21%
Enrollments (1979/80)
Total
male and female
Total  Male   Female                    as % of
('OOOs)('OOOs) (OOOs)   % Female        Age Group
Primary (Grades 1-6)       332.1  290.6    41.5        12.5         33.6 (6-11)
Preparatory (Grades 7-9)   21.3   18.2        3.1      14.6          4.9 (12-14)
Secondary (Grades 10-12)   10.4    9.0        1.4      13.3          2.7 (15-17)
Higher Education
(Grades 13-16)              4.2    3.8      0.4       10.3          1.1 (18-21)
Education Expenditure (1979/80)
As percentage of total Government Expenditure                  12%
As percentage of GDP                                            5%
Education
Recurrent
Expenditure    Cost per Student
YRls million        YRls    US$
Primary (1979/80)                       423           1,263        281
Preparatory (1979/80)                    49           2,266        504
General Secondary (1979/80)               31          3,050        678
Higher Education (1978/79)               33.5         9,700      2,155
1/ Estimate projected from 1975 census figures (tanpowet\Development
in the Yemen Arab Republic, IBRD Report No. 3181a-YAR (,March 1981)).



C                                                                                                                                                                                   I 



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01     Since the 1962 revolution, the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has made
significant advances in the planning of its economy. Among the more signifi-
cant are: the establishment of central government institutions; the housing
and population census of 1975 that laid the basis for improved economic and
social planning; the preparation of two national development plans with a
third under preparation; and the increasing recourse to local development
associations (LDAs) to foster self-help in the provision of rural infrastruc-
ture and social service facilities.  However, national planning and develop-
ment institutional infrastructure is still being built up. In particular, the
development of Yemen's operational/applied research capability to look into
key development issues needs urgent strengthening. This need is particularly
acute in education and manpower development.
1.02     The labor force in YAR is predominantly male as in most neighboring
countries; among the resident labor force, one worker in eight is a woman.
Employment in 1980 was estimated at 1.33 million with the largest proportion
(66%) in the traditional agriculture sector. In 1975, about 420,000 males-
were registered as having migrated for short-term work mostly as unskilled
labor in neighboring Arab countries; two-thirds of these were between 15-29
years of age. This number has remained comparatively stable since then. This
large scale migration has had profound socio-economic effects. Inflows of
workers' remittances have raised the GNP per capita significantly. This
development, together with fast growing government expenditures for both
investment projects and public services, has greatly alleviated YAR's tradi-
tional problems of poverty and rural underemployment. However, it is not cer-
tain that remittances will remain a stable source of national wealth in the
future. Recent studiesl/ suggest that there will be fewer opportunities for
unskilled labor to migrate given the progressive upgrading of skill require-
ments in the major labor importing countries. Parental apathy towards modern
education in YAR, in general, continues to act as a restraint on the full uti-
lization of available educational opportunities. The presence of a very
large, annually changing, non-Yemeni teaching force, which, consequently,
lacks an appreciation of local conditions and customs and standards of
behaviour, has not helped overcome this apathy. Hence, consideration is being
given by the Government to initiating a conterted policy of educational incen-
tives, Yemenizing the teaching force, and of creating opportunities for
employment of Yemenis in YAR.
1.03     Manpower limitations have been a major bottleneck to YAR's overall
economic development. This is not surprising since the move to establish a
modern education and training system began less than two decades ago. The
Government has taken steps to establish training institutions at the lower
1/ Manpower and International Labor Migration in the Middle East and North
Africa, IBRD Report, Technical Assistance and Special Studies Division,
June 1981.



2-
end of the skill spectrum. However, at the higher level, the most tenacious
problem is meeting the country's requirements for professionals with a
science-based education or training. According to a 1975 manpower survey,
there were only 741 Yemenis in the professional occupational categories with a
science/mathematics-based university degree. A more recent YAR manpower
mission 1/ estimated the demand, expected supply and shortfall for these
categories of professional manpower for the periods 1975-80 and 1980-85 to be:
Table 1: PROFESSIONAI, OCCUPATIONS-REQUIREMENTS
(Science/Mathematics-Based Degree)
Supply from                        Cumulative
Demand       Educ. and Trg. System   Shortfall   Shortfall
1975-80           1,700                 400                1,300
1980-85           1,900                 800                1,100        2,400
Recent Developments in the Education and Training System
1.04     The need for an educated workforce with the necessary skills to
respond to the demands of a changing economy is seen by the Government as
fundamental to its overall development strategy. The first Five-Year
Development Plan (1976-80) reflects this imperative. Accordingly, educa-
tional development has been directed towards expanding basic schooling,
while training programs have been oriented towards meeting skilled manpower
needs.
1.05     In the education sector, enrollment targets were prescribed for
each level of the system to be reached by the 1980/81 school year.
Progress against these goals has been mixed. The expansion of primary
education has been rapid with 1979/80 enrollments reaching 78% of the
1980/81 target at an average annual increase of 15% during 1976/77-1979/80,
but still only reaching a coverage of 33.6% of the 6-11 age group
(Annex 2). The low participation of girls remains a concern (12.5% of the
6-11 age group).  The expansion of preparatory and secondary (general and
teacher training) school enrollments has also been slow. Only 4.9% of
12-14 and 2.7% of 15-17 age groups were in school. The average annual
increase for the period was about 4%. Transition rates of school graduates
who go to the next level of schooling in 1978/79 were satisfactory; these
were 85% for primary to preparatory (excluding vocational training centers
(VTCs)), 100% for preparatory to secondary and 78% for secondary to
university. Less satisfactory, however, has been the low completion rate
of only 12% in primary schooling (namely, the percentage of students
enrolled in grade 1, who completed grade 6).
1.06     In secondary technical education (industrial, commercial and
agricultural), the total enrollment in 1979/80 reached only 30% of the
1/  Manpower Development in YAR, IBRD Report 3181a-YAR, March 1981.



-3-
appropriate 1980/81 target.  At the Ministry of Education's (MOE's) VTCs,
the 1980 enrollments were just one-third of their total enrollment capa-
city. The main barrier to the development of middle-level education and
skill training is the low "throughput" or output from the primary education
level which feeds the upper levels of the education system (in 1979/80
there were as many as 143,400 students enrolled in grade 1, but only 16,500
in grade 6).
1.07     The University of Sana'a is the only institution of higher educa-
tion in YAR offering four-year degree courses of studies in the faculties
of arts, law, commerce and education. The enrollments in higher education
had increased by 1979/80 to 52% of the 1980/81 target, constituting some
1.1% of the 18-21 age group.
1.08     Out-of-country training to meet the specific needs of major
investment projects figured prominently in the Five-Year Development Plan
document. Nearly 2,800 Yemenis were to be sent abroad during this Plan
period. Some 150 graduates in agriculture and veterinary sciences have
been predicted to return during 1976-80, with the expectation of meeting
the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA's) needs for that period. However, less
successful has been the out-of-country training program for engineers and
doctors. Out-of-country training has met with limited successl/ because
many sent abroad either dropped out or did not return or did not enter the
posts for which they had been trained. The costs have also been expen-
sive. Finding Yemenis with required levels of language proficiency has
proven difficult. Given the low foreign language proficiency of the candi-
dates, planned programs often have had to be modified to provide practical
non-academic training and field visits of limited usefulness.
Issues Affecting Educational Development and Science-Based Professional
Training
1.09     The MOE had in the earlier two national development plans put much
emphasis on the construction of schools at all levels. With the completion
of the 1980/81 construction program, the total available enrollment capa-
city at the three levels is expected to be ahead of the anticipated total
student enrollments until 1983. However,the educational gains have not
been commensurate with the investments in construction. The issues affect-
ing educational development (elaborated in Annex 3) are essentially of a
qualitative nature. They are: (a) low internal efficiency of primary edu-
cation; (b) the undesirable effects of a large expatriate teaching force
and an inadequately trained Yemeni one; and (c) inequity of opportunity for
schooling.
1.10     Contributing to the low internal efficiency of primary education
are factors such as: (a) high dropout rates in grades 1, 2 and 3 of
primary schooling which in 1977/78 were respectively 28.2%, 31.3% and 33.5%
for boys and 36.1%, 32.6% and 20.5% for girls; (b) low completion rates of
1/ Manpower Development in the Yemen Arab Republic, IBRD Report No.
3181a-YAR, March 1981.



-4-
only 12% in primary schooling in 1978/79--the average number of grades a
student completed in primary school in 1976/77 was only 3.14 years, partly,
because of the high dropout rates and, partly, because of the limited number
of primary schools with full six grades of schooling; (c) low pass rates in
the final examinations of primary schools that were 62% in 1978/79; and
(d) shortcomings in instruction which include poor teaching methods, indif-
ferent attitudes of teachers towards students, lack of continuity in the
teachers assigned to a given school, lack of instructional materials adapted
to the Yemeni situation and a weak system of inspection.
1.11      The teaching force is largely non-Yemeni at all education levels.  In
1979/80, some 60% of the primary school teachers were non-Yemeni.; in 1980,
this percentage reached 85%, partly because the Government had begun to acce-
lerate the replacement of poorly qualified Yemeni teachers with expatriate
teachers on contracts payable from Arab development aid funds and, partly,
because of the departure of Yemeni teachers due to low salary levels. Satis-
factory steps have been taken by the Faculty of Education (University of
Sana'a) to increase admissions to the training programs of the preparatory and
secondary school teachers to 450 in 1980/81. However, at the 25 primary
teacher training institutes (PTTIs), in 1980 the total number of admissions
was only 618 and the enrollment about 1,640, which is nearly one-third of the
student places available. Urgent efforts are, therefore, needed to revitalize
the programs of the 25 PTTIs through. (a) recruitment and retention of quali-
fied Yemeni teacher trainers in the PTTIs; (b) increasing the numbers of PTTI
entrants by offering boarding facilities; and (c) an analysis of the curricula
and methodology to improve relevance to the Yemeni situation. An important
initiative in the training of some 175 PTTI teacher trainers under an Eastern
Michigan University (EMU) program (para. 15 of Annex 3) may fail if the
teacher trainers on completion of their studies are not attracted to or
retained in their profession in YAR.
1.12      Despite the extensive school construction program (para. 1.09), the
primary and preparatory schooling opportunities remain poorly matched with
locational needs of children. For instance, in 1980, only 49.2% of all
primary schools had all six grades of schooling.   In 1977, nearly a third of
the 1,600 primary schools were unoccupied due to inadequate analysis of loca-
tional needs. Only a thorough and complete survey of schools, together with a
school mapping study which has not been done so far, could lead to a realistic
school location program with potential for reducing these inequalities of
opportunity.
1.13      If enrollments in the diversified secondary school and vocational
training systems (para. 1.06) are to be increased, appropriate incentives such
as student stipends, provision of boarding facilities and transportation must
be provided.
1.14      The institutional capability for exploring and recommending steps to
resolve critical issues that beset education and training development remains
to be built up. The problems affecting educational development are numerous
an.d intertwined. Unfortunately, there are few mechanisms for resolving these
problems. Responsibility for educational administration and planning rests
with the MOE, which is young (20 years old) and wholly absorbed by admini-
strative tasks such as the annual preparation of the budget, the processing



-5-
and recruiting large numbers of foreign teachers and ensuring everyday contact
with the regional governorates and the LDAs, particularly with regard to the
construction and operation of the schools. The MOE is cognizant of the situ-
ation and of its inadequate staffing, attributable largely to conditions of
employment in the civil service. A UNDP institutional team established since
1974 in the MOE to assist it in planning became burdened with MOE's admini-
strative tasks. Because of these reasons, the Minister of Education has
reasonably decided to create an institution to address these problems.  The
Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC) will be separate from the
MOE as its functions will cut across a variety of government activities, but
it will have a broad mandate for providing guidance, advice and specific
operational proposals for planned change to the decision makers of the MOE.
The separation will allow financial autonomy and will enable the ERDC to
recruit qualified and experienced Yemeni staff whilst maintaining linkages to
the MOE through the provision of secondments of MOE and university specialists
as necessary.
1.15     Another key issue is that higher education is characterized by the
absence of applied science/technology programs. Steps have been taken to
establish a faculty of health sciences at the University of Sana'a.
Financing for this faculty is being obtained from the Kuwait government
which earlier financed the construction of two large hospitals in Sana'a
and Hodeidah.
1.16     The First Five-Year Plan estimates the demand for degree engineers
during 1975-80 and the expected supply from overseas training programs.
Projected estimates of demands during the periods 1980-85 and 1985-90 are
shown in Table 2; their basis is projecting on the basis of continuing
investment trends and workers' remittances from abroad. The demand for
degree civil engineers is both large and pressing.
Table 2: DEGREE ENGINEERS--REQUIREMENTS /a
Demand due          Expected Supply         Cumulative
to Growth       from overseas training    shortfall
1975-80             885                     345                   540
1980-85             900                     500                   940
(1,200)/b
1985-90             950                     600                 1,290
(1,550)/b
/a Appraisal mission estimates. Includes civil, mechanical, electrical,
electronic, textile, mining, chemical engineers and architects.
/b Yemeni estimates (University of Sana'a).



-6-
1.17     The government of YAR sought to meet the demand for engineers in
the past decade through: (a) recruitment of expatriates; and (b) out-of-
country training. The annual salaries of expatriates in YAR in 1980 ranged
from US$30,000 to US$55,000, exclusive of housing and benefits. In compar-
ison, the annual salaries of Yemeni engineers were in the range from
US$13,000 to US$18,000. The internal rate of return for the project of a
Faculty of Engineering in YAR, computed over a 15-year life of the project
and based on a differential of YRls 10,000 (US$2,220) in monthly salaries
of expatriate and Yemeni engineers, was estimated to be an advantageous
29%1/.
1.18      In 1976/77, Central Planning Organization (CPO) statistics show
that some 540 Yemeini students were abroad studying engineering at degree
level. Unfortunately, there has been inadequate monitoring of their pro-
gress. In non-Arab countries many Yemeni students are handicapped by their
poor foreign language proficiency. The Government has sought hard to place
candidates in neighboring countries but has met serious difficulties
because of the demand for admissions within the countries and, on occasion,
because of quotas imposed on foreign students. Of the 540 Yemeni engineer-
ing students abroad in 1976/77, some 320 students were on four to five-year
fellowships, with 54% of these in Arab countries on five-year programs and
the remainder in industrialized countries on four-year programs. The rate
of successful graduates returning cannot have been high. The Yemen General
Electric Corporation, which expects to recruit 76 engineers during 1979-83,
has only been able to recruit on an average of 2 university graduates per
year during recent years. A MOA proposal for an overseas post-graduate
program to train 38 civil engineers during 1976-80 did not materialize
because no suitable Yemeni candidates were available. Only 80-100 Yemeni
engineering graduates returned to YAR during 1976-80 with the remaining
Yemeni fellows either not having completed their course of studies or not
returning to YAR. The typical total average cost of fellowships in Arab
countries (1980 prices) was about US$8,000 per year and about US$13,000 per
year in industriaiized countries. On the basis of expenditures incurred on
320 Yemeni fellows (1976) over the duration 1976-80 and the numbers of
graduates returning to YAR, the cost of each Yerneni engineering graduate
returning home is about a high US$132,000 to US$165,000 (in 1980 prices);
the fellows completing the course on their own beyond five years of studies
after 1980 have been excluded.
1.19     The costs of overseas training in industrialized countries have
soared with inflation and elimination of subsidies; the total cost of
placing a Yemeni civil engineer in a nine-month diploma course in the UK
was US$19,600 in 1980/81. Students sent to neighboring countries receive
monthly stipends of about US$500 (average cost of fellowship is US$8,000
per year). In 1979/80, some 160 Yemeni students were admitted into engi-
neering degree programs in Syria, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Pakistan. If all
future fellowship programs were only in the neighboring countries and with
the optimistic assumption that 60% of the Yemeni graduates would return to
YAR (the remaining 40% accounts for dropouts and those not returning to
YAR), then the cost per Yemeni graduate returnee would be about US$67,000
in 1980 prices. However, in the latter case, the government of YAR is con-
cerned by the unpredictability of the results and difficulties in over-
seeing the studies.
1/ Economic Feasibility Study for the Faculty of Engineering Project,
Faculty of Economics, University of Sana'a, March 1980.



-7-
1.20     In view of the outcomes and unpredictability of the out-of-country
training programs, the favorable internal rate of return on the investment
on a Faculty of Engineering (para. 1.17), as well as the secondary benefits
of a nationally based Faculty of Engineering, the Government has reasonably
decided to meet the demand for engineers via an internal training program
by establishing a Faculty of Engineering as part of the University of
Sana'a.  Some 3,720 students, amounting to 70% of the total enrollment in
grades 11 and 12 of the secondary schools in 1979/80, were in the science
streams compared to only 850 students in 1975/76. Between 1981 and 1983,
the numbers of students graduating from the secondary school science
streams are expected to increase from 1,100 to 1,600 and those graduating
from technical secondary schools (TSSs) from 70 to 200. Thus, the Faculty
of Engineering would have an assured pool from which to select some 150
qualified entrants.
Education Finance
1.21     Education and training have an obvious priority.  Accordingly,
this sector received considerable foreign financial assistance for support
of national budget, salaries of non-Yemeni teachers, fellowships and insti-
tutional assistance. Funds from Arab states were also available for finan-
cing construction of primary, preparatory, secondary schools and university
buildings. UNDP estimates the total commitment for 1980 to be about US$43
million representing some 28% of government expenditures on education.
About 12% of the Government's total expenditures in 1979/80 is estimated to
have gone to education; this suggests that government spending amounted to
about 5.0% of GDP,.which is satisfactory. This excludes unofficial finan-
cial contributions from LDAs, individuals and neighboring Arab states made
directly to the educational institutions, as these data are unavailable,
but are regarded as being considerable. About 30% of the Government's
total expenditure has been for capital expenditures. Of the capital
expenditures, a large proportion (73%) was spent on general education with
emphasis on primary education, some 10% on vocational and technical educa-
tion, and 17% was spent on higher education which is reasonable.
1.22     In the area of general education 1/, the total recurrent expendi-
tures (including foreign aid support for non-Yemeni teacher salaries)
amounted in 1979/80 to about YRls 504 million apportioned into YRls 423
million (US$94 million) at primary level, YRls 49 million (US$11 million)
at the preparatory level and YRls 31 million (US$7 million) at the second-
ary level. The annual recurrent expenditures per student (in monetary
terms) have risen between 1975/76 and 1979/80: from YRIs 188 to YRls 1,263
per primary school student; from YRls 1,084 to YRls 2,266 per preparatory
school student; and from YRls 1,438 to YRls 3,050 per general secondary
student. These recurrent unit costs are high in comparison with similar
countries such as PDRY and Sudan, and particularly high at the primary edu-
cation level, The recurrent unit costs of primary education in PDRY and
Sudan were, respectively, about 45% and 47% that in YAR.  The high costs
1/ This excludes vocational and technical education.



-8-
arise principally from the large expenditures on expatriate teachers who
nevertheless have low teaching loads compared with Yemenis. The Government
is conscious of the need to control these recurrent costs.  It has begun
taking reasonable steps which should result in a lowering of unit costs.
These include: (a) ensuring contractual obligations of minimum acceptable
class contact hours for non-Yemeni teachers; and (b) encouraging the
recruitment of Yemeni teachers by announcing in March 1981 upward revised
pay scales for all Yemeni teachers and, furthermore, instituting with
assistance from Unicef, an inservice training project with targets of 15
educational supervisors, 150 school headmasters, 2,000 unqualified teachers
and refresher courses for some 1,200 qualified teachers.  An additional
incentive for recruiting qualified Yemeni teacher trainers for the PTTIs
(para. 1.11) is the provision of a salary supplement in the salary
supplement fund being included in the proposed fourth education project.
IDA Lending Strategy for Education and Training
1.23     The formal education system was new in the 1970's.  IDA educa-
tional lending strategy 1/ has been aimed at the development of high prior-
ity teacher training, vocational training and secondary technical educa-
tion. These priorities were reflected in the first two IDA-assisted educa-
tion projects which provided for: (a) expanding teacher training (one new
secondary teacher training college (STTC), five new PTTIs and equipping
seven existing PTTIs); (b) establishing programs for training skilled
workers and middle-level technicians (four VTCs), one technical, one multi-
lateral and one agricultural secondary school (ASS)); and (c) introducing
and expanding a training scheme to provide opportunities in rural areas for
adults to acquire a basic education and elementary skills (seven district
training centers (DTCs) and a fund for village training activities). The
second IDA Credit also supported the local production of educational
materials.
1.24     The first education project was, given the nascent state of the
construction industry, implemented satisfactorily although some three years
beyond the original Closing Date. The first credit was disbursed by
December 31, 1980. The experience gained led to a significant improvement
in the physical implementation of the second education project; construc-
tion and equipping of most project institutions were completed on schedule
as appraised except for a few institutions where construction was delayed
by nine months. Disbursements under the second credit amounted to 90% by
June 1981.
1.25     There was an initial delay in the first and second projects in
securing technical assistance to operate all the schools. Originally,
technical assistance was to be supplied under a UNDP/Unesco project but did
not materialize due to the UNDP financial crisis of 1976. Accordingly, the
Government sought technical assistance from bilateral sources. The Federal
Republic of Germany (FRG) provided assistance to the VTC at Sana'a, USAID
to-the ASS at Ibb, and Peoples' Republic of China (PRC) to the TSS/VTC at
1/ First IDA Education credit of US$11.0 million was approved in July 1973
and the second IDA credit of US$8.0 million in February 1976.



-9-
Taiz. In compliance with the condition of credit effectiveness for the
third education IDA credit, the Government carried out a vigorous recruit-
ment drive and secured the remaining technical assistance needs from Arab
countries. By October 1980, 19 out of the 21 project schools under the
first and second IDA Credits were in operation, though not all had reached
the targeted numbers of admissions. Outreach village level training acti-
vities of the DTCs had also commenced.
1.26     A completion mission on the first education project took place in
March 1981. The perceived lessons were; (a) implementation delays arose
out of reliance for the major supply of technical assistance funds upon
external agencies; (b) provision of student boarding in the VTCs and PTTIs
is necessary if their enrollments are to reach planned capacity; and (c) in
the case of civil works expected to be performed by local contractors,
building materials such as structural timber trusses and asbestos cement
roofing with which their workers are unfamiliar should be avoided.
1.27     In June 1979, an agreement was signed for a US$10.0 million credit
for a third education project. The project is designed to assist in meet-
ing the need for middle-level agricultural technicians (one new livestock
and one agricultural school), improving the School Building Unit (SBU)
within the MOE and extending public administration training at the middle-
level to two regional centers.  The implementation of the physical aspects
of the project has been excellent. The construction of the ASS was comr
pleted 6 months ahead of schedule and that of the remaining three institu-
tions is expected to be on schedule. Although preinvestment studies
relating to post-secondary education were included, because of the delay in
declaring the Credit effective (December 1979), the University of Sana'a
financed from its own funds the feasibility academic programming studies
relating to post-secondary education in the health sciences by WHO
consultants and in engineering by Unesco consultants.
1.28     The proposed project continues IDA's lending strategy in the
development of the educational system by addressing the qualitative issues
of the low internal efficiency, an inadequate Yemeni teaching force,
inequity of opportunity for schooling and other operational problems
(para. 1.09). The project will specifically reinforce the institutional
capacity of the Government through the establishment of an ERDC (para.
1.14) which will conduct work programs and studies that fit into the MOE's
operational priorities and plans for future development. The project will
also help increase enrollments in primary teacher and vocational training
institutions through the provision of student boarding. The proposed proj-
ect will also provide support for establishing a Faculty of Engineering,
based upon the feasibility studies relating to post-secondary engineering
education, that were included in the third education project and which have
identified a serious deficit in higher level Yemeni engineering personnel
(para. 1.16) and poor outcomes of out-of-country training (para. 1.18).



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
2.01     The proposed project principal components were prepared by the
Government with the assistance of consultants and an IDA preparation assis-
tance mission of May 1980. The project estimated to cost US$18.2 million,
for which an IDA credit of US$12 million is proposed, was appraised in
October/November 1980 with post-appraisal in March 1981.
A. Project Objectives and Scope
2.02     The main objectives of the project are:  (a) creation of an insti-
tutional capability to assist the MOE and other training bodies to resolve
the system's important priority qualitative operational and programming
problems and to provide guidance for planned change of the system;
(b) increasing the Yemenization of the teaching force, particularly in the
PTTIs and primary schools; (c) increasing the outputs from existing VTCs;
and (d) meeting the serious deficit of Yemeni engineers through a control-
lable and lower-cost in-country training program. The project would com-
prise:
(a) Establishing an Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC)
by:
(i) Helping develop a program of studies and specifically the
provision of the technical assistance to implement in early
1982 four urgently needed work programs, (paras 1.09-1.12 and
1.14), namely:
(a)  identification of key factors contributing to the low
educational efficiency of primary education in each of
the governorates;
(b)  identify measures to accelerate the training, recruit-
ment and retention of Yemeni teachers at all levels of
the educational system;
(c)  review and revision of the curricula of all teacher
training and vocational training institutions; and
(d)  conducting an inventory and evaluation of existing
school facilities to reduce the number of incomplete and
under-utilized primary schools with a view to intiating
a medium-term school location plan.
(ii) Constructing and equipping the ERDC for completion by 1985.
(b) Increasing enrollments in:
(i) VTCs through the provision of 216 boarding places at Taiz and
Hodeidah (para. 1.13);
(ii) PTTIs:
(a) through the provision of 216 boarding places at Ibb and
Dhammar (para. 1.11); and



- 11 -
(b) by attracting qualified Yemeni teacher trainers through
the creation of a salary supplement fund of about
US$500,000 (paras. 1.11 and 1.22).
(c) Establishing a Faculty of Engineering (grades 13-17) (para. 1.20)
at the University of Sana'a through:
(i)  designing the physical facilities for the Faculty (750
student places);
(ii)  constructing and equipping the Department of Civil
Engineering by 1984; and
(iii)  financing teaching staff to enable commencement of classes in
the Department of Civil Engineering in late 1982 and
associated fellowships for training Yemeni teachers.
The project would continue financing the staff and equipment costs of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established in the MOE under the first
and second IDA credits, to design and supervise the construction of the
ERDC and student boarding facilities.
B.   Project Components
Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC)
2.03     The establishment of this Center that would comprise a critical
mass of local and other specialists to work on urgent education and train-
ing issues and problems is of high priority. The design of the proposed
institution was initiated by a Unesco consultant and elaborated by a Work-
ing Committee appointed by the Minister of Education with members from the
MOE and the University of Sana'a, assisted by Bank staff. The principal
determinants of the design were; (a) the implementation of urgent action
programs, which promise prompt impact on key problems confronting the
educational system; (b) the parallel development of the technical and
administrative capabilities to carry out these activities in large part
through on-the-job training; (c) early recruitment and training of Yemeni
staff for the ERDC, and (d) creating institutional arrangements which would
ensure the ERDC's objectivity and, at the same time, avoid burdening it
with MOE's administrative tasks. Advice was sought from a wide-range of
research and development agencies (e.g., International Institute of Educa-
tional Planning, Unesco; Institute of International Education, Stockholm)
many of whom have indicated their technical support. Significant progress
on the development of an appropriate institutional strategy has been made.
Some operational related studies (e.g., the collection of data of inventory
of classrooms in schools) are already underway.
2.04     Organization and Administration.  The ERDC, which is expected to
be fully established by 1986, would form the institutional base for dealing
with a comprehensive range of issues of educational research and develop-
ment, as well as providing practical assistance to the operational services
of the MOE and other training bodies. It was recognized early that there



- 12 -
are two major risks that have to be avoided by such an institution, namely,
that of getting enmeshed in the administrative functions of the MOE and
that of becoming an ivory tower. Lessons have been drawn from ERDC models
that are not foreign to the region as in Egypt and Lebanon.  Typically, a
large measure of autonomy from a parent ministry permits rapidity in pro-
grarmming work, independence in judgment on critical issues, and maintenance
of links with all appropriate institutions. Moreover, this autonomy also
allows for attracting and using "special purpose" external funds quickly
and speedier recruitment of qualified staff at competitively attractive
salaries.  The autonomy from the university, on the other hand, helps
ensure ERDC's ability to maintain an essential operational, applied work
orientation and focus, rather than on pure research which might otherwise
be the case.
2.05     The ERDC will be managed by a Governing Body, chaired by the
Minister of Education, with strong representation of the MOE and with
representatives of the University of Sana'a, training ministries/agencies
and specially appointed independent members. Financial independence per-
mits compensation and personnel policies sufficiently attractive to hire
Yemeni staff, to the extent possible, of adequate quality and at competi-
tive salaries with those of the University of Sana'a. The ERDC would be
organized into 10 operational units, each representing a specific field of
activity.  The day to day administration of the ERDC would be the responsi-
bility of a Director. January 1982 has been set as the date for the estab-
lishment of the ERDC and the initial appointment of key staff. It is clear
to both the MOE's Working Committee and the appraisal mission that the
staffing of all the 10 operational units will not be feasible during the
initial period of operation. Accordingly, the sequence of introduction of
these units will be roughly at the rate of two per year over five years in
line with the priorities of the ERDC's work programs (para. 2.06). Mean-
while, the ERDC will be structured so that it can deal with these urgent
tasks. In monitoring the project, close attention will be paid to matters
of inter-institutional coordination. The draft decree prepared by the
Government for establishing the ERDC granting it quasi-autonomous status
setting staff salaries and determining the scope of its operations, was
reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory.
2.06     Work Programs.  The MOE Working Committee's report has identified
areas for the ERDC's intervention, indicating their priorities, four of
which are to be undertaken by the ERDC as soon as possible. These include:
(a) establishment of a system for measurement of the productivity and effi-
ciency of the primary schools; (b) study of the supply and retention of
Yemeni teachers; (c) review and revision of curricula for teacher training
and vocational/technical education; and (d) educational facilities inven-
tory and school location planning to deal primarily with the inequity of
opportunity for schooling. These programs are further described in Annex
4. These programs of 6 to 18 months' duration are proposed for IDA assis-
tance. This assistance will comprise the principal operating costs
(US$373,000) associated with these four programs. Assurance was provided
by the Government that it would provide the Association with the results of
these four work programs, upon their completion for review and comment,



- 13 -
2.07     Staffing.  A total of 39 professional staff members would be in
regular employment with the ERDC by the end of 1986, to be brought into
service on a schedule in line with the Center's proposed program of activi-
ties. In addition, there will be 25 technical, support and housekeeping
personnel. The key appointments will be the Director, Assistant Director
and heads of the 10 technical units. In addition to the regular staff of
the ERDC, it is expected that personnel to serve on specific research and
development projects will be drawn from the University of Sana'a in the
form of local specialists and research assistants, and from the MOE in the
form of fellows seconded from their regular duties there. The benefits
from this arrangement are the development of MOE staff as well as positive
feedbacks from these institutions.
2.08     Training.  The training element of IDA support to the ERDC will be
of great importance. The long-term emphasis on Yemeni staff, even at some
cost in terms of some delays in implementation and reduced operational
efficiency, will enhance the eventual effectiveness of the Center. A total
of 466 man-months of fellowships are provided under the proposed IDA
credit. The training will be mainly in the form of fellowships at the
Masters and Ph.D. levels. Most, if not all, trainees will return to YAR
because of the combination of attractive salaries and the scope of
interesting professional work in their own country; the University of
Sana'a has in the past three years been successful in attracting qualified
Yemenis to return from abroad to take up teaching appointments. A limited
number of 10 internships of 6-12 months' duration to educational develop-
ment institutions are also called for. Informal training efforts will be
through study visits to institutions where successful education research
and development is being carried and with whom effective operational link-
ages can be established. Such relationships would provide needed technical
support and continuity, but must, of course be initiated and established by
the Yemenis themselves. A preliminary visit by a Yemeni team to such
Centers was sponsored in June 1981, under the technical assistance provi-
sions in the third IDA education credit. The urgency of staffing and staff
development requires prompt identification of rec:ruits for training and for
subsequent appointments in the ERDC.
2.09     Specialist Services.  The consultancies would be primarily short-
term, for duration of one to two months each, with continuity maintained to
the extent possible by means of repeat visits of the same consultant and by
arrangements with more mature educational development institutions which
share the same technical interests. A total of 47 man-months of short-term
consultancies have been provided under the proposed credit. The schedule
of consulting assignments is included in Annex 5, Table 3.
2.10     As there is a possibililty that the Yemeni Director may not have
sufficient experience in administering similar institutions or be in acting
appointment (para. 2.07), there is a need for the appointment of an advisor
to assist the Director in his early technical and organizational tasks.
The inclusion of the advisor was discussed with the Yemeni ERDC director
during the negotiations of the Credit. The Government has agreed to the
inclusion of one advisor in the technical assistance provisions for the
ERDC, amounting to an additional 24 man-months.



- 14 -
Boarding Facilities for the PTTIs and VTCs
2.11     Although there is considerable shortage of Yemeni primary school
teachiers, the enrollments in the PTTIs are much less than the capacity of
these institutions (para. 1.11). This is in part due to the unattractive-
ness of the profession on account of the low salaries of Yemeni school
teachers (this has since been resolved by the government decree of March
1981 raising the salaries of Yemeni teachers) and in part due to the diffi-
culties that trainees have in obtaining lodging with local families who may
be often from a different tribal group. Consequently, the MOE is providing
boarding facilities for PTTI entrants (para. 1.11). The project will
support the construction of boarding facilities for 108 PTTI students at
Ibb and another 108 students at Dhammar. The 1980 enrollments at Ibb and
Dhammar were only 132 and 91, respectively, as against available 210 and
150 student places. The MOE has furniture in stock which will be distri-
buted to these student hostels.
2.12     The need to provide residential accommodation for trainees at the
VTCs is also pressing for the reasons of: (a) difficulties that trainees
have in obtaining lodging with non-relative families; and (b) lack of cheap
and reliable public transportation system for trainees living at long
distances from the VTCs, although the MOE authorities have instituted their
own transport arrangements. Construction of boarding for the VTC at Sana'a
will commence soon with the Government's own resources. Under the project,
boarding facilities for 108 trainees at the VTC, Hodeidah, and for an addi-
tional 108 trainees at the VTC/TSS complex at Taiz will be constructed.
These two VTCs commenced their operations in October 1980, with first year
enrollments of 40 at Hodeidah and 80 at Taiz, although the planned first
year enrollments were 140 at Hodeidah and 160 at Taiz.
2.13     The Government has provided assurance that it would make available
to the Association annually the data of total enrollments, number of annual
admissions, examination passing rates and numbers of students residing in
the hostels for each of the PTTIs and VTCs. Beginning in December 1983,
this annual review will enable the Government and IDA to monitor the effec-
tiveness of the provision of boarding facilities.
Teacher Trainers' Salary Supplement Fund (TTSSF)
2.14     In 1980, all the 102 teacher trainers at the PTTIs were non-
Yemeni. The MOE has taken steps to build by 1986 a force of 175 Yemeni
teacher trainers at the PTTIs principally through a Masters Degree in the
Education Program that was initiated in 1979 under the USAID/EMU program
(para. 1.11). Despite the recent salary increases announced for all levels
of teachers in the MOE system, it is likely that graduates of this program
will be attracted by higher salaries at Sana'a University or at universi-
ties and schools at neighboring countries, as well as by the private sector
in YAR or abroad. The TTSSF would allow the MOE to grant to each qualified
teacher trainer posted to a PTTI a monthly salary supplement amDunting to
20% of the basic salary that would make the salary competitive. The total
target number of PTTI teacher trainers to benefit from the TTSSF will be
all the qualified teacher trainers in the country, estimated to be 175 by
1986 beginning with 35 in 1982.



- 15 -
2.15     The TTSSF would be established at an existing bank, acceptable to
the Association, which has branch offices where the PTTIs are located. The
amounts to be allocated to the TTSSF under the proposed credit would amount
to US$0.5 million to be paid into the TTSSF on a phased basis over five
years. An initial payment of US$50,000 into the TTSSF would be made on
receipt from the Government by the Association for comment of: (a) recruit-
ment and selection procedures to hire Yemeni teacher trainers for all the
PTTIs satisfactory to IDA; and (b) a list of eligible trainers and their
qualifications. Subsequent payments into the TTSSF would be made on appli-
cation from the Government normally to be made semi-annually in the form of
reimbursement for expenditures already made from the TTSSF, supported by
appropriate receipts and service contracts.
2.16     Assurance was provided by the Government that it will take
necessary steps to incorporate progressively the salary supplement expendi-
tures into the fiscal year 1985 recurrent expenditure budget of the MOE
leading to full budgetary provisions of such expenditures for fiscal years
1987 and thereafter. Further, a mid-term evaluation will be conducted not
later than June 30, 1985 to assess the effect of the TTSSF in attracting
Yemeni teacher trainers into the PTTIs and the resulting improvement in the
education efficiency of the PTTIs.
Faculty of Engineering
2.17     The proposal for establishing a Faculty of Engineering in YAR was
prepared by a three-man Unesco team in early 1980, containing details of
disciplines of study, course structure, enrollments with preliminary esti-
mates of accommodation, technical assistance and costs. The proposal was
elaborated by a Working Committee with members from the University of
Sana'a and senior Yemeni engineers from the technical ministries, assisted
by a University of Assiut (Egypt) team and by Bank staff. The new Faculty
of Engineering will be located on a 12 hectare site within the new campus
of the University of Sana'a. The Faculty would offer a five-year engineer-
ing degree course to selected students who have successfully completed
their general secondary schooling (grade 12) in the science stream or their
technical secondary schooling. The entire Faculty of Engineering is esti-
mated to cost about YRls 174.5 million or US$38.8 million equivalent with a
foreign exchange component of US$25.6 million (Annex 6, Table 1). The IDA
project would assist in the creation of the new faculty by constructing and
equipping the Department of Civil Engineering due to a priority need for
degree civil engineers (para. 1.16) and by providing specialist teachers
for the Department of Civil Engineering and fellowships and institutional
services (design and equipment procurement) for the Faculty in the initial
period (1982-84). The external financing requirements beyond 1984 for
completing the Faculty are indicated in para. 3.08.
2.18     Enrollments and Output.  The Faculty of Engineering has been
designed for a total of 750 student places in departments of civil,
mechanical, and electrical/electronic engineering. Annual admission to the
five-year degree program would be 150 students, which could be increased to
210 by adjustment of class scheduling.



- 16 -
2.19     The establishment of the engineering degree programs would be
achieved gradually. Because of the Government's concern to commence train-
ing programs as early as possible, the University of Sana'a would admit
between 30-60 students in the fall of 1982 to the civil engineering degree
program. The first two years of studies would be in the Faculties of Arts
and Sciences since the subjects in the first two years of studies relate to
English language training and the physical and mathematical sciences. For
workshop practice, arrangements will be made with the TSS and the VTCs in
Sana'a. The civil works program is phased so that the civil engineering
department buildings will be constructed and equipped by the end of 1984,
to allow the third year civil engineering students to proceed with the
technical engineering degree component of their courses. The general
science building and shops will be completed in 1985/86 and the remaining
engineering departments by 1986/87, at which time admissions would be
increased to a stable state of 210 per annum.
2.20     The initial output of civil engineering graduates from the Faculty
of Engineering is expected in 1987. The output is projected to increase so
that from the academic session 1989/90, the output of civil, mechanical and
electrical engineering graduates (120) would meet 63% of the annual demand
due to growth for the period 1985-90 (para. 1.16) and from the 1990/91
session some 74% of this demand. Based on the cumulative shortages and
projected requirements, these graduates are not expected to have difficulty
in finding employment. They would fill new positions or would replace
expatriate engineers. The cost per Yemeni engineering graduate in 1990 has
been estimated to be about US$44,300 in 1980 prices. This calculation is
based on: (a) annual recurrent costs (para. 3.10); (b) depreciation of
costs of buildings, furniture, equipment and teacher fellowships over a
20-year period; and (c) dropout rate of 20% over the entire five-year
course of studies. With the reasonable expectation that 80% of these
graduates will take up employment in YAR, the cost per Yemeni graduate
amounts to US$55,400, which is much lower than the present out-of-country
training costs of US$132,000 to US$165,000 per Yemeni graduate returnee
(para. 1.18) and also lower than the projected cost of US$67,000 per Yemeni
graduate returnee if all out-of-country training took place in neighboring
countries (para. 1.19). There are good grounds for the expectation that
the Yemeni graduates will remain in YAR, for social and cultural reasons,
and employment opportunities for young engineering graduates in YAR are
considerable.
2.21     Teaching Programs.  The details of curricula, laboratories and
academic spaces and staffing were prepared by the University of Assiut team
and modified, as found necessary, by the University of Sana'a Working
Committee assisted by Bank staff. The training course would comprise 10
semesters of 16 weeks each with 26 hours per week. In the first 8 weeks of
the first semester, all students will undergo an "immersion" program of 20
hours per week of English language training, based on the successful
experience gained in the Faculty of Science. The curricula proposed is
satisfactory and there is a judicious combination of courses in the
engineering sciences and technology subjects, social and natural sciences,
as well as of design and laboratory classes, lectures and tutorials. The



- 17 -
curricula reflects the developmental needs of YAR through a selective
emphasis on special subjects such as hydrology, irrigation structures,
water and sewerage treatment, renewable energy resources, development
economics and industrial and rural sociology, and a flexibility of options
of group electives in the fifth year, namely: structural, hydraulic and
transportation engineering in the civil engineering department; plant engi-
neering and production engineering in the mechanical engineering depart-
ment; and, power engineering and telecommunications in the electrical engi-
neering department. The curricula will be integrated, particularly in the
social sciences and natural sciences, with courses offered in the Faculties
of Arts, Economics and Sciences, thereby encouraging an early interdisci-
plinary approach in the training of engineers.  In order to ensu;e that the
courses of studies and curricula will continue to reflect Yemen's develop-
ment needs, the Government has agreed that the Board of Studies of the
Faculty shall include representatives of at least two of the technical
ministries (Ministry of Public Works, CPO) and employer organizations
(Yemen General Electric Corporation, Tihama Development Authority).
2.22     Staff Recruitment.  The Faculty of Engineering, when in operation
with enrollment of about 750 students in 1988, would require a combined
teaching staff of 63, 45 of whom will be in the engineering disciplines, 12
in the natural sciences and 6 in the social sciences, with a support staff
of 50 laboratory and shop technicians. The recruitment target would
achieve a satisfactory student/teacher ratio of 12:1.
2.23     Staff Training.  The University of Sana'a has, in the past, had no
difficulty in recruiting qualified Yemeni and non-Yemeni teaching staff
because of the attractive pay scales and housing accommodations. The
initial recruitment of senior teaching staff in the engineering disciplines
will mostly be non-Yemeni while Yemenis are being trained abroad to take up
senior teaching positions. For the junior positions of demonstrators,
recruitment will be from Yemeni engineering graduates returning back from
their studies abroad and attracted by employment conditions in the
University. The University has already begun a roster of potential candi-
dates for the teaching positions, including that of applications received
from abroad. Provision has been made in the proposed fourth education
project for 10 fellowships of 30 months' duration commencing September 1982
to train senior staff before taking up teaching duties. Agreement has been
reached with the Government on the criteria for selection of staff for
training, the duration and scope of training and the phasing of the fellow-
ship program to ensure that adequate teaching staff would be available for
the replacement of expatriate specialists.
2.24     Specialists' Services.  The project would finance in the period
1982-84 about 10 man-years of the services of expatriate faculty require-
ments including that of the Department of Civil Engineering (corresponding
to 8 teaching staff) to fill key teaching posts during the training of the
Yemeni teachers and to develop curricula details and syllabi. Prior to
negotiations, the Government should be requested to submit to IDA the names
of institutions from whom expacriate teacher specialist services will be
sought under institutional support contracts. Agreement has been reached
with the Government on the terms of reference and qualifications of all
specialists.



- 18 -
2.25     Monitoring.  Assurance has been given by the Government that it
will establish by December 1982 at the CPO a system to monitor each year
the number of government-supported Yemeni engineering degree students
abroad by discipline and name of country and expected date of return, the
number of engineering graduates returning that year and posting of employ-
ment and the number of new students proceeding outside the country for
engineering studies. In addition, the Government has given assurance that,
not later than June 1984, it would prepare and send to the Association an
interim project report providing the enrollments in the Faculty by depart-
ment, class and governorate, the staffing numbers and turnover, assessment
of fellowship and specialist services program and the future needs of
foreign exchange resources to complete the Faculty of Engineering.



- 19 -
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTArION AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
3.01     Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is esti-
mated at YRls 81.8 million or US$18.2 million equivalent witth a foreign
exchange component of US$11.1 million.  The estimated total cost and
foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized below:
Table 3.1:  SUMAARY OF COSTS BY PROJECT ItEMl
X of
YRIs Millions              US$ Millions      Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction, furniture
and equipment for:
Educational Research and
Development center (ERDC)  6.08        7.20  13.28   1.35    1.60    2.95    21.5
Student boarding
facilities                   4.91      3.88   8.79   1.09    0.86    1.95    14.2
Civil Engineering Department 1/
(Faculty of
Engineering)               4.41    11.34  15.75   0.98    2.52    3.50    25.5
Teacher Trainers' Salary
Supplement Fund                 1.64       -      1.64   0.36      -       0.36      2.6
Technical Assistance for:
(a) ERDC: Fellowships,
Specialists, and
Special Studies            2.51      5.98   8.49   0.56    1.33    1.89    13.8
(b) Faculty of Engineering:
Fellowships, architec-
tural and specialists
services                    1.54      9.28  10.82   0.35    2.06    2.41    17.5
(c) Institutional Support of
PIU                         0.58      2.43   3.01   0.13    0.54    0.67        4.9
Baseline Cost                   21.67    40.11  61.78   4.82    8.91   13.73   100.0
Contingencies
Physical unforeseen              1.86      3.13   4.99   0.41    0.70    1.11
Price Increase                   8.34      6.65  14.99   1.85    1.48    3.33
Subtotal                         10.20     9.78  19.98   2.26    2.18    4.44
Total Project Cost               31.87    49.89  81.76   7.08   11.09   18.17
1/ See para. 3.08 for overall financing of the Faculty of Engineering.



- 20 -
3.02     Estimated project costs (local and foreign) by category of
expenditure are summarized below:
Table 3.2:  SUMMARY OF COSTS BY CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE          -
% of.
YRls Millions          US$ Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost_
Construction;
Academic and communal
facilities              14.48   14.11   28.59   3.22    3.13    6.35    46.3
Furniture                  0.18    1.62    1.80   0.04    0.36    0.40         2.9
Equipment                  0.74    6.68    7.42   0.16    1.49    1.65    12.0
Subtotal                0.92    8.30    9.22   0.20    1.85    2.05    14.9
Teacher Trainers'
Salary Supplement
Support                   1.64             1.64   0.36      -       0.36      2.6
Technical Assistance:
Professional Services
(design/supervision)       -      3.15    3.15    -        0.70    0.70       5.1
Fellowships                1.53    6.11    7.64   0.34    1.36    1.70    12.4
Experts/Consultants        1.50    6.01    7.51   0.34    1.33    1.67    12.1
Special ERDC Studies       1.02     -       1.02   0.23      -       0.23      1.7
PIU Institutional
Support                   0.58    2.43    3.01   0.13    0.54    0.67         4.9
Subtotal                4.63   17.70   22.33   1.04    3.93    4.97    36.2
Baseline costs            21.67   40.11   61.78   4.82    8.91   13.73   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical unforeseen        1.86    3.13    4.99   0.41    0.70    1.11          -
Price increase            .8.34    6.65   14.99   1.85    1.48    3.33          -
Subtotal                10.20    9.78   19.98   2.26    2.18    4.44          -
Total project cost        31.87   49.89   81.76   7.08   11.09   18.17          -



- 21 -
3.03     Base Cost.  Estimates excluding contingencies have been adjusted
to reflect the prices at negotiations (November 1981) and were calculated
on the following basis:
(a)  Construction costs--on unit prices derived from current contracts-
and cost analyses of similar institutions being constructed under
the second and third education projects;
(b)  Equipment and furniture--on master lists prepared by ERDC and for
Faculty of Engineering with current CIF prices adjusted to include
local transportation and installation;
(c)  Architectural design and supervision services--on acceptable
international practice, about 7% of construction costs of Faculty
of Engineering;
(d)  Specialist services--on recent Bank experience of average cost per
month of about US$8,600 (consisting of fees and per diem allow-
ances) of which 80% would be foreign costs, and average travel
costs to and from home office abroad of about US$1,200 per indivi-
dual;
(e)  Fellowships--on past Bank experience of average cost per man-month
of US$2,240 and average travel costs to and from study base abroad
of about US$1,200 per individual; and
(f)  Salary supplements--on 20% of MOE pay scales for teacher trainers
of PTTIs.
Costs do not include taxes and import duties as project institutions are
exempt.
3.04     Area Allocations and Costs per Student.  Unit areas and costs of
new facilities (net of contingencies, operating costs and costs for pro-
fessional services) are shown in Annex 5, Table 2. Gross area per student
place for academic and communal facilities of the Faculty of Engineering
averages an acceptable 22.9m2 1/ and the total capital costs (civil works,
furniture and equipment) per student place for academic and communal faci-
lities average about US$24,200 in 1981 prices. 2/ Gross area allocations
for student boarding facilities are in conformity with present standards.
Local materials and building techniques would be used to the maximum extent
possible.
3.05     Contingency Allowances.  The estimated project cost includes con-
tingency allowances for unforeseen physical additions equal to 10% of the
estimated base cost of civil works, furniture and equipment, and 5% of the
estimated cost of technical assistance. The project cost also includes
price escalation contingencies calculated for the implementation period
beginning in November 1981 and in accordance with an agreed schedule of
1/ The range of similar recent Bank-financed projects in Algeria (1978-80)
was 21 to 23m2.
2/ The range of similar Bank-financed projects in Algeria (1978-80) was
US$28,400 to 32,600 (1980 prices).



- 22 -
implementation (Annex 7). Annual rates of price increase for various cate-
gories of expenditure are indicated in Annex 5, Table 4.  Prices are
expected to increase during the project implementation period by a total of
24.0% for civil works, 27% for furniture and equipment, 18.6% for technical
assistance specialists and 17.8% for fellowships. Accordingly, aggregated
price increases are estimated at about 22.4% of baseline cost plus physical
contingencies.  Total contingencies are estimated to be about 32.3% of the
baseline cost.
3.06     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is US$ll.l million equivalent or about 61.0% of the total project
cost. The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based (otn
detailed analysis of expenditures in similar projects in YAR) on the expec-
tation that: (a) all of the civil works contracts except for the ERDC and
the Civil Engineering Departments (Faculty of Engineering) will be awarded
to local firms, and (b) all furniture and equipment will be directly impor-
ted.  The resulting foreign exchange content of each category of expendi-
ture is as follows: (a) civil works--ERDC and boarding, 44% and for the
Civil Engineering Department, 60%; (b) furniture and equipment, 90%;
(c) technical assistance--experts and fellowships, 80%; (d) architect's
services for the Faculty of Engineering 100%; and (e) PIU institutional
support, 80%.
3.07     Financing Plan. The total project cost of US$18.2 million equiva-
lent would be financed as follows;
(a)  The proposed IDA credit of US$12 million (amaounting to 66.0% of
total project costs) would cover:
(i)  100% of the foreign exchange requirements of the MOE com-
ponents;
(ii) 100% of the foreign exchange requirements of the Civil Engi-
neering Department including specialist services and fellow-
ships in the time slice 1982-84 and the architectural design
fees for the entire Faculty of Engineering; and
(iii)  principal local costs (salaries, office costs and travel) of
the priority work programs to be undertaken by the ERDC and
disbursed local costs of the phased TTSSF.
(b) The Government would finance all the remaining net local costs of
US$6.2 million (34.0% of the total project costs).



- 23 -
3.08     The financing plan and IDA credit allocations by category of
expenditures are presented in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Government                 IDA
% of                   % of         Total
US$      Financ-       US$      Financ-        US$
Million     ing        Million       ing       Million
Civil Works             3.22        50.7        3.13       49.3           6.35
Furniture &
Equipment              0.21        10.2        1.84       89.8           2.05
Special ERDC Studies/
Teacher Trainers'
Salary Support          -           0.0        0.59      100.0           0.59
Technical Assistance:
Professional Services
(design/supervision)   -            0.0        0.70      100.0           0.70
Experts                 0.33        19.8         1.34      80.2           1.67
Fellowships             0.34        20.0         1.36      80.0           1.70
PIU Institutional
Support                0.13        19.4        0.54       80.6           0.67
Baseline Cost           4.23        30.8        9.50       69.2          13.73
Contingencies:
Physical                0.38        34.2        0.73       65.8           1.11
Price Increase          1.56        46.8         1.77      53.2           3.33
Subtotal                1.94        43.7        2.50       56.3           4.44
Total Project           6.17        34.0        12.00      66.0          18.17
The external financing requirements beyond 1984 for completing remaining
departments of the Faculty of Engineering are estimated to amount to about
US$20.0 million (Annex 6, Table 2). The Government has accorded high
priority for the Faculty of Engineering because of its importance in YAR's
development and is contacting the governments of UAE and Saudi Arabia as
well as the Islamic Bank for cofinancing. "Time-slice" financing by IDA of
all foreign exchange needs between 1982-84 should be an encouragement to
possible cofinancing and would allow the Government sufficient time to
establish cofinancing. The Government has given assurance thac it shall,
before June 30, 1982, enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association
to ensure the foreign exchange and local components of the financing of the
completion of the departments at the Faculty of Engineering available
starting January 1, 1984.  If by June 30, 1983, part or all of the



- 24 -
aforesaid funds of such financing shall not have been ensured, the Govern-
ment has agreed to include all funds needed for the completion of the
departments at the Faculty of Engineering in its budgetary allocation
starting January 1, 1984.
3.09     Recurrent Expenditures.  During the period of the project, IDA
would finance the following recurrent expenditures:  (a) ERDC professional
level staff and local specialists designated to undertake the priority work
programs and office and travel costs (para. 2.06 and Annex 4); (b) staff
of the PIU and equipment/office costs (para. 3.13); and (c) salary supple-
ment support for the teacher trainers appointed to the PTTIs (para. 2.15).
3.10     Recurrent Cost Implications.  The recurrent costs (mainly salaries
and consumable materials) generated by this project when fully operational
would amount to; (a) YRls 4.34 million per annum for the ERDC in 1980
prices, which is equivalent to about 0.8% of MOE's budgeted total recurrent
expenditures in 1980 which is manageable; and (b) YRls 17.5 million per
annum by 1987/88 for the Faculty of Engineering in 1980 prices, which is
equivalent to US$5,200 per student enrolled that is reasonable; the recur-
rent expenditures per student will decline as Yemeni teachers begin replac-
ing expatriate teachers and as enrollments increase to about 1,000 students.
3.11     Local Budget Requirements.  Budget allocations would be available
to the project on an annual basis. In addition, funds required for
expenditures not eligible for IDA financing, such as taxes, land acquisi-
tion, local transportation and cost of utilities, would also be provided.
During negotiations, the Government should give assurance that it would:
(a) furnish to the Association by December 1, of each year of imple-
mentation, a revised project schedule, an estimate of project
funds requested for the following fiscal year; and
(b) make the necessary funds available to ensure prompt project imple-
mentation during the life of the project.
B. Project Implementation
3.12     Implementation Period.  The project would be implemented over a
period of 5-1/2 years. A detailed implementation schedule to serve as a
monitoring tool has been prepared which the Government should be asked to
review and agree to at the time of negotiations (Annex 7, Charts 1, 2
and 3).
3.13     Administration.  The Government has agreed that the MOE and the
University of Sana'a would have overall responsibility of their respective
project components, who have each designated a coordinator. The Coordi-
nator would be responsible for: (a) timely recruitment of staff, nomina-
tions of counterparts and fellowship training for the project institution;
(b) appropriate provisions of investment and current budgets for the proj-
ect component; (c) liaison with PIU and the consultant architects and
specialists in the development of architectural designs and procurement of
equipment and furniture; and (d) financial records, with advice and



- 25 -
assistance of the PIU accountant, and submission of withdrawal applications
for disbursement of allocated IDA funds. This arrangement is similar to
that in the third IDA education project which has functioned satisfac-
torily.  The Government has agreed to the following;
(a)  MOE--a senior official of the MOE would be the Coordinator for the
project components of the ERDC, the student boarding facilities
and for the institutional support to the PIU, and also the
administrator of the TTSSF.
(b)  University of Sana'a--a senior official of the University would be
the Coordinator with overall responsibility for establishing the
Faculty of Engineering, assisted by the Technical Department.
(c)  PIU--the PIU, established in the MOE under the first and second
IDA education projects, would under the proposed project, have
responsibilities for the physical aspects of the ERDC and student
boarding facilities. These implementation activities will include
inter alia architectural design, preparation of cost estimates,
and supervision of construction. The PIU will continue its
association with the SBU of the MOE as envisaged under the third
IDA education project. The PIU will also assist the Sana'a
University's Technical Department in providing supervision of the
construction of the Civil Engineering Department of the Faculty of
Engineering.
3.14     The PIU and the Technical Department of the University of Sana'a
would be responsible under the overall supervision of each respective
Coordinator, for international and local bidding for civil works, furni-
ture, and equipment and the preparation of associated withdrawal applica-
tions for disbursement of credit funds.
3.15     Architectural Services.  The PIU, as stated above, would have the
reponsibility for the architectural services for the ERDC and student
boarding. Preliminary designs for the student boarding facilities have
been reviewed and approved by IDA. The designs for the ERDC were also
reviewed and, following revisions, have been approved by IDA.
3.16     The architectural design and construction supervision for the
Faculty of Engineering would be undertaken by an architectural consultant
firm. IDA has reviewed the terms of reference and the draft contract
agreement for the consultant architectural services. The selection of
consultant architects has been completed, and it is expected that a
contract with the consultant architects would be signed in December 1981
and preliminary studies of the Civil Engineering Department completed by
February 1982.
3.17     Equipment Specialist Services.  Master lists of equipment and
furniture for the ERDC and for the Department of Civil Engineering, Faculty
of Engineering were reviewed by IDA. The preparation of the detailed
equipment lists and specifications, and bid documents for ICB for the
Faculty of Engineering including the Civil Engineering Department would be
undertaken by short-term specialists. One man-year of equipment specialist
services would be financed under the technical assistance provisions in the



- 26 -
proposed IDA credit. The contracts for major equipment bid packages for
the Department of Civil Engineering will include installation and commis-
sioning of equipment/machinery.
3.18     Site Selection.  A suitable site  for the ERDC Within the Sanata
city limits has been selected, and that formal transfer of property owner-
ship of the site from the Sana'a city government to the MOE has been
arranged.  The student boarding facilities will be built adjacent to exist-
ing PTTIs and VTCs, which have adequate space on their sites to accommodate
the proposed student housing. An existing general master plan for the
University of Sana'a has delineated areas for the various faculties on the
outskirts of Sana'a. An adequate site within the limits of this campus has
been allocated for.the Faculty of Engineering. A comprehensive master site
plan for the Faculty of Engineering would be prepared by the consultant
architects in due course.
3.19     The cost of land acquisition would be borne by the Government and
is not included in the project cost.
C. Procurement
Local Competitive Bidding
3.20     Civil Works (US$2.7 million).  Past experience has shown that
small civil works, with relatively simple building concepts, as is the case
with the boarding facilities, do not attract foreign bidders. Therefore,
contracts for boarding facilities would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding following procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association and do not exclude foreign bidders.
3.21     Furniture, Equipment and Consumable Materials.  Furniture and
equipment contracts that cannot be grouped into packages for bulk procure-
ment of at least US$50,000, or items of a specialized nature for which ICB
would not be practical or items which must be compatible with other equip-
ment procured under ICB, would be procured under normal government proce-
dures which are satisfactory to IDA and would include, to the extent possi-
ble, quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. These
items would not exceed an aggregate total of US$0.35 million or about 12%
of estimated costs including contingencies. Similar procedures would be
applicable to consumable materials for laboratories and offices not exceed-
ing in the aggregate US$0.15 million.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
3.22     Civil Works (US$6.0 million), and Furniture and Equipment (US$2.9
million). Contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for equipment and
furniture and US$1.0 million for civil works would be awarded on the basis
of ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.  Due to the complexity and
phased execution of construction of the Faculty of Engineering and the
possible introduction of advanced building techniques, it is anticipated
that the contract for the Department of Civil Engineering (estimated at
US$2.8 million) would be awarded to a foreign contractor. Civil works for
the ERDC is estimated to cost about US$3.2 million. Equipment would be



- 27 -
grouped to the extent possible in large packages to permit bulk procure-
ment. In ICB comparisons, local manufacturers of furniture and equipment
would receive a margin of preference on bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing imports or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
Direct Purchase (US$0.05 million)
3.23     Books and printed instructional materials would be purchased
directly from publishers or authorized distributors at the lowest negoti-
ated prices.
IDA Review and Approval of Procurement Decisions
3.24     To ensure that agreed design standards are met and to coordinate
procurement of all project elements, the Government has provided assurances
in accordance with agreed implementation schedules (Annex 7, Charts 1, 2
and 3) that: (a) design development drawings, including laboratory equip-
ment and furniture lists, as well as arrangements for construction and pro-
curement would be acceptable to IDA; and (b) terms of reference for all
consultants/specialists and fellowship programs would be acceptable to
IDA. Detailed lists and specification of equipment/furniture, to be finan-
ced under the Credit, would be presented to IDA, for review and approval
prior to procurement. Draft tender and contract documents and cost esti-
mates would on completion be forwarded for IDA review and approval. In
this respect, the Borrower would forward bid evaluation and recommendations
for contract awards, allowing sufficient time (at least one month) for
IDA's review and approval. In addition, bid validity dates should be
established to allow sufficient time to process bids received, prepare an
evaluation and reach agreement on award recommendations.
D. Disbursements
Disbursements
3.25     The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed as
follows:
(a) For furniture, equipment and books--100% of the foreign expendi-
tures; 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured items; and 85% of local expenditures for items procured
locally (off-shelf);
(b) For technical and engineering services, professional fees, fellox-
ships and expatriate staff of PIU--100% of foreign expenditures;
(c)  For civil works--50% of total expenditures; and
(d) 100% of the local expenditures of ERDC priority work programs and
phased PTTI TTSSF against statements of expenditures (paras. 3.09
and 3.28);



- 28 -
3.26     Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1987
amounting to a period of six years. The estimated disbursement profile has
a higher profile and is of a shorter duration by one year than the IDA
country-wide disbursement profile for YAR. This is reasonable because;
(a) the actual disbursement profile of the second IDA education Credit is
both higher and of shorter duration (six years) than the country profile;
(b) PIU's performance in implementation has progressively improved with
each succeeding IDA education project; (c) advanced state of the proposed
fourth education project with the completion of designs of civil works of
two groups of project items (student boarding and the ERDC), such that
bidding of student boarding is scheduled for January 1982; (d) time-slice
financing (1982-84) for the Faculty of Engineering; and (e) disbursements
for the TTSSF and ERDC priority work programs scheduled as soon as the
credit is declared effective.
Documentation of Expenditures
3.27     Withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation,
except for local expenditures on the TTSSF which would be reimbursed
against statements of expenditures signed by the MOE Project Coordinator.
Documentation for these statements would be retained by the Project Coordi-
nator and will be available for review by the Association during project
supervision missions.  To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications
would be aggregated in the amounts of US$5,000 or more, prior to submission
to the Association for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the proposed
credit. An estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 8.
Accounts and Audits
3.28     The MOE and the University of Sana'a will maintain separate
accounts. The PIU had considerable experience in keeping accounts for the
first, second and third IDA education projects and an experienced accoun-
tant in the PIU will coordinate the financial affairs of the project com-
ponents in the fourth IDA education project. Pre-auditing is carried out
by an accounts unit of the Ministry of Finance located in the MOE. Under
an existing Credit Agreement (Credit 915-YAR), the Borrower shall have
project accounts for each year to be audited by independent auditors accep-
table to the Association. The Government has given assurance that: (a)
the accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles; and (b) it will furnish
to IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year (i) certified
copies of the project accounts, and (ii) an audit report of such scope and
detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursements against certified statements of expenses. Six
man-months of auditor specialist services are financed by the project.



- 29 -
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. benefits
4.01     The main benefits expected to accrue from impleinentation of the
proposed project are as follows:
(a) improved institutional capability in the short term, for the
resolution of the education systems priority development problems
through the implementation of ERDC's priority work programs and,
in the long term, in educational planning and programming through
inservice and fellowship training of some 40 professioftal staff of
the ERDC by 1986;
(b) accelerated growth of a qualified Yemeni teaching force at the
PTTIs to 175 teacher trainers by 1986 with impacts on the cultural
adaptation of the education system and on an increase in numbers
of Yemeni primary school teachers;
(c) increased output of skilled workers from two existing MOE VTCs
working at their full enrollment capacity of about 600 through the
provision of incentives of boarding facilities for the trainees;
and
(d) meeting nearly 75% of YAR's annual demand for engineers by 1991
through a controllable and a relatively low-cost in-country train-
ing at the Faculty of Engineering.
A spill-over benefit of establishing a Faculty of Engineering in YAR would
be the availability for the first time in the country of laboratory facili-
ties that address problems of special relevance to YAR such as hydrology,
irrigation structure models, materials testing and performance testing of
water pumping and electrical machinery.
B. Risks
4.02     As with a country with a young administrative system, there are
always risks associated in the creation of new institutions. However,
these risks are minimized to some extent by the commitment the Government
has already made to the creation of the new institutions.
4.03      The risk of delay in legislative action granting the ERDC the
autonomy necessary for its operations must be recognized. As condition of
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement shall be the issuance and publica-
tion of the legislation for establishing the ERDC, granting it financial
autonomy (para. 2.05). Another risk is a delay in the Government obtaining
the remaining external financing requirements beyond 1984 for completing
the Faculty of Engineering. The Government has provided assurance that it
will complete the Faculty of Engineering either through co-financing or
from its own resources (para. 3.08).



- 30 -
C. Critical Activities and Key implementation Dates
4.04     The critical activities in the implementation of the project and
the expected dates of completion indicated in the following table have been
confirmed by the Government to provide a basis for monitoring Project
Implementation.
Civil
Engineering
Educational Research    Department         Boarding
and            (Faculty of   Facilities for
Development Center   Engineering)   PTTIs & VTCs
Civil Works
Appointment of consultant
architects                                        completed
Completion of site
acquisition                 in possession        in possession  in possession
Completion of construction
drawings
and bid documents                 05/82             09/82            06/82
Commencement of
construction                      09/82             01/83            10/82
Completion of
construction                      09/84             12/84            03/84
Furniture and Equipment
Appointment of equipment
specialist                        03/82             09/82
Completion of final
equipment lists
specifications                   09/82              03/83
Completion of furniture
lists and specifications         09/82             03/83
Commencement of bidding
of furniture and equipment        10/82             07/83



- 31 -
Educational Research       Civil          Boarding
and            Engineering   Facilities for
Development Center   Department       PTTIs & VTCs
Completion of bidding for
equipment and furniture           06/83            03/84
Completion of installation of
major equipment                   12/84            03/85
Appointment of Yemeni
director/coordinator              appointed        appointed
Recruitment of Yemeni staff        01/82            03/82
Selection of fellows
for training                      01/82            8 fellows
already selected
Recruitment of
consultants/
expert teachers                   01/82            03/82
Commencement of
fellowship training               06/82            09/82
Appointment of
staff                             01/82            05/82
Commencement of
Priority Work Programs:
(a) enrollment dynamics            02/82
(b) supply and retention
of Yemeni teachers           08/82
(c) review and revision of
PTTI and VTC curricula        10/82
(d) educational facilities
inventory                    06/82
Availability of
premises, support
staff and office
facilities to:
(i) commence priority
work program                 01/82
(ii) commence program of
the Civil Engineer-
ing Department                                06/82
Opening bank account
for salary supplement
fund                                                               03/82



- 32 -
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  information on recruitment and selection procedures to hire Yemeni
teacher trainers for the PTTIs and a list of eligible trainers to
receive salary s,.pplements would be furnished to the Association
for the initial payment of US$50,000 into the TTSSF (para. 2.15);
(b)  steps would be taken to incorporate progressively the TTSSF
expenditures into the fiscal year 1985 recurrent budget of the MOE
leading to full budgetary provisions of such expenditures for
-    fiscal years 1987 and thereafter (para. 2.16);
(c)  the Board of Studies of the Faculty of Engineering shall include
representatives of at least two of the technical ministries and
employer organizations (para. 2.21);
(d)  satisfactory agreements will be entered into, before June 30,
1983, to ensure the foreign exchange and local components of the
financing of the completion of the departments at Faculty of
Engineering starting January 1, 1984; if by June 30, 1983, part or
all of the aforesaid funds of such financing shall not have been
ensured, then the Government will include all funds needed for the
completion of these departments in its budgetary allocation start-
ing January 1, 1984;
(e)  interim assessment report on the Faculty of Engineering should be
provided to the Association not later than June 1984 (para. 2.25);-
(f)  the accounts will be audited by independent auditors and that
certified copies of project accounts and audit report will be
furnished to IDA within four months of each fiscal year
(para. 3.28);
(g)  steps would be taken to monitor (i) the effectiveness of the
provisions of the boarding facilities for the PTTIs and VTCs and
provide IDA with agreed data annually commencing from December
1983 (para. 2.13), (ii) the agreed key implementation dates of
critical activities, particularly the submission of all design
development drawings and detailed specifications of equipment and
furniture to be financed under the Credit, as well as terms of
reference of all consultants and fellowship programs (paras. 4.04,
3.12, 2.24 and 3.24) and the submission to che Association the
results of ERDC four priority work program upon thieir completion
for review and comment (para. 2.06), and (iii) the annual prepara-
tion of a-.revised project schedule and the financial requirements,
and the availability of the necessary funds to ensure prompt proj-
ect implementation (para. 3.11); and



- 33 -
(h) steps would be taken to monitor and evaluate (i) the effectiveness
of the TTSSF not later than June 30, 1985 in attracting teacher
trainers into the PTTIs (para. 2.16); and (ii) the out-of-country
training of government-supported Yemeni engineering degree stud-
ents annually by CPO (para. 2.25).
5.02     Condition of Effectiveness.  Arrangements will be made by the
Government for issuing and publishing the legislation for the establishment
of the ERDC, granting it financial autonomy.
5.03     Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a credit of US$12.0 million equivalent to the Yemen Arab Republic.



*-34-
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION  INDICAtORS                          ~ANNEX 1
I       !ICAPITAL          1000t.      EDUCATION    ILITER-    P TNI. ICOHPEE-  O!tU- IUNIT COST:                            ECE.- EC   14)  INIGHERI
t    AT   I           EXP.ON I RECCURRENT    lACY        IENROt.LITION       IDENTSIPRIM. ED-L ON RATE IC.NROLLiIENTTKLOL
IMARRETI S GNIP  :TO. 8551EX9  ALLOCATEDI.  RATE 'RATIO IRATE FORIPER   :AS Z CNFK/IFROM PRI.IRAIIU  l'RE  RkATIO
I POP. :PRICES: DEVOTEWIFII.EXPI            TO'       1(Z 0F  1 NET   IPRI.;C14.ITEAIHI  CAP'ITA   ITO SEC.   I AET  ITFACH- OROSi:
YRIRILLS.: luss11  TO EGU.ION EDU.IFRI'. SEC. H4I.IADULTSI: (.)  ICYCLE(tIIER    I                                     (Z1  -IE    I(5
1(1 1(211   (3)    1(4)  I            (5)       1(6)   1<7)   1(8)    1(9)1   (10)    1(111    I(12)I:(17.)I(14>
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA         74   7.5SH 7:S20H4  5.30                 24?  51Y  15Y   99          98       93C       26       to.7C       99C      5 15     LYC    1685
CANADA          7 2,5860               81      2.        25    39   23      99      100      100        21       17.6       100       92       10     22.00
GERMANY F. REP.78  61.5310,300         4.00     4.60.0          .997    .,.                  100                            100       94       721'   12.00)'
JAPAN           7T; 114.9H4 7.700      4.30W  I'0.7j   40UY 37UY 1111Y  ;9           990      PyB       25       ...998               950?    200    2469YY
NETHERLANDS    78 - 13992              83      9,         0    35   24       99      96       93        <9       178          9       812      1       2
NEW ZEALAND   711 324510                .W     ..        39   24   29       99       99       99        26       19.4        99       67       19     74.00
NORWAY          76   4,04 9.560        7.2     14.       14    24    Ls     99       99       99        16       15.8        99K      62       11     t1.I 00
SW  EN          78   8.3D10,40         8.8FW  682         7    11   10      99       99      100        lAP      227        100        79      13K     0.0
U.K             785.         ,90       16      12.       26    39   22      99       99        100      24      -123        100        5       17     21.6
U. S.AC.        la8218.S  9,770        7.1     14.3      -.  07s* to        99       98       99        220      ...         '9       9        19     411o0
CRRECE          76   9.414 4,35014   2.6W    100.0    37   26   2y   866            99X      82C       31        6. 2?    700        80       77     1100
IKELANI'        74   3.2 H3.8104    5.1W    . ..D   43K  41K   14K    98             DeOKY    99A       35       ..        956A       65K?    19      1'A. 47 Y
PORTUZA11L      57  29,81  1,9404    3.6W    100         4 1    21.   15    710      82X      60*       19)       7.5'     75*        35       12      c.0
ROMAR IA        7     I 59HI 16104    4.0      ...      .36    19   13      98      101        ..       21       ...       918        49       2       (0.00
SPAIN           74  37.1 H3,9609      246       .         9     2     5      0       1K ...             316      ....y    ...         7988Y   30      (7,0
AFRICA
ALCLRIA         79 18.5   1,410H4   7.1W    1D0.0    34K  2 6K  218    358    945K            41K?      37K      11.9      52K?       33,1'    37K     SOUPS
SKEIN      ~~~ ~~74   3.314  2204  7.28W    94.0C  470  230  100    110    44XY           700t      53Y    40. 26      431$       11??    3980  . 74K
PODIW4KA        '9 0.8    750          7.0     100.0    46   27    .. 35            94        74        32       22.0      33         20       2 2      (56S
SlIUNURDI       79   4.0    18         2OL    120.31   44L  37L  22L    25          25       34        35       11.0      17          -2.11   17       9.8
CAmEROON        74    8.314  45314     3b.7   100.0    33    43   20         ..    s          41        52       11.3      23          90)    24       0. ?001
C.A.N.          74    1.4   27014      3.00W   100.0    568   190     .....    79XY           2          9        1.6      1            K      28        .1
CAD            75   4.314  1014    3.0W        91.66   78   22             15    2-940?      30        658?    ..                     2KBY  30        0.2<07
Co090805        80    3.4   2-60K      6.5               40   28    14      20       991      61        45       16.0      59         21       30      1.4
50080(8)        74   1.14  1801        6.0W              40   32     21     50'?   133K       63        63      13.36      48         33X      22      3.40
EGYPT        -79  31.0   130           2.2W     90.2K         .    .        15       39       90        30'      to.3      B2         49       17?    15.00
ET14TOPRH       79  31.0     130       2.2W     90.59.        .    .     .15;        38       9,        59      200KF        .         9       4
GAPION          74   0H.43.37014   1.00W  100.0    250D   90  110                   100o      2C -6     46C    -  .7        18A       31?~ ' 220    02/'
GAMEBIA         76   0.614  1801       3.5'_W  ..        46   .5      ,     .0      '27       90        335      44.7      92         13       :        .
GHANA           74  11.01   38014                        43Y  22?Y  20YG             60A?     628       30?      ..          48       ASK?      6c ta t   109?
GUINEA          76   5.114  '26014    4:.340             30    71   30               30K       64       45        11       86,         13X     26      4.00)
IVON? COAST   76   7. 14  95014        o.8W   100.0    33   46    13         96     50        86        43      19.7       47         17/Y   2 6       1. 41Y
KENYA           79  12.3   380         5.98    680.0    7<    t5   1 4      45       92       74        40       15.8      41         1.9      28      1.3
LEONO           79    1.3     340      4.1     61        41   29   20       52       69       32        49        8.0      6 5        15       23      SAC
LIBERIA         77   1.714   46014   3.1W                23    13   26      30       51x       ...      54      27.9'      74f        24X      16       ..
MADAGASCARK   77   8314   25014   4.0W  100.0            53    Z8    1 9    50       90        33       44        ...       38        14       23       1.70
MALAWI          7    5.9      201      2.24W  99.00    40   23   23         25?      59        1714     6214     10.00     501         6K      21
MALI            75   6.314   13014   4.2MW 100.08    45E  375   18E    tOE           22XE      ..       4)4K      ...      50           6K     21
MAU'iRITANIA    71    1.014   27014   4.IYW...           ..... .            106LO    17XY      ..       226%      ...        ..        5K      246
hAiR81510,      76   091       ?2014   4.7W  100.0       10   26      6     80B      94       99        24       19.5?       90       4        32      1.0
MOROCCO         7 9  184       68014   6.3W       .,     36   44   20       28       68      35        39       19.        O         20K      20I      .00
mISER           77   2.01    24014   2.0a         .      52   43      S      8       17       5 0       39      38.7       315         2       2 4
.IGERIA         74  8064 604           4Y5                3     6   42               493       ..       34CY      ..         ..- 10V           ZB      0,?
RUANA           73   4.5H   19014   3.26 ..                       .     . .3         52        ..        1        ..          ..        .      13      0.238?
SENEGAL         77 5.1    36014   5.                     4     3    20      10       32        ..       49       21.6A     20"        10       21     i<.2
SIEA LEONE  73   3.31    230,4  3.48   100.0             31   36   30       15?      343      45        32       13.75     68         13K      21I     0.53AY
SOMALA         78    .7       151    2.0    100.0       55    10   21      5o       44       ..        32       20.4      40             5    15       1.00'
SUDAN           76  17.414 34014'  4.1W    64.0?9  48   36   15             20       34       74        33      46.78      33         14       24      1.24
SWAZILAD        70 0.1    550          6.20W 100.0       3 7   33   23      61       923      4 9       37       4l' 66               323      20      2 .oOX)
TANZANiA    74~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  17.  :30  0.8WW 100.0  43    19I  10  66F  945      87        58      11.1K       94 0F03
TOO4            77   2.414H   320M    5.5W  100.0        30   28   21       i8       74       40        58      13.38      52          -      44       2.30
TUNISIA         7?   6.4  1.120        9.8    100.0      41    36   20      32     100        so        39      12.8       30         30       30      6.00
UGANDIA         75  12,414   28014'  3.40?               340Y 400? 220?  256         538?      ...      340?      ...       146         6KBY  216      0.5;6?
UPPER VOLTA    77   5.614   16014   3.48                 31    16   32      I1C      13x      23        51      52.1?       19         2       25      1.
ZAIRE  76  26.814   24014?  6.0W          ~~~ ~~~ ~~~        ~~~~~~~49   26   25  15  86K  44 4OA00          41         13      27       1.0
2680E11         s0  5.7        540     1.6    100.0      48   23   22       44       95       ao        48      12.9       19         16       22      1 .5f'0
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BANANAS         797  0.  2.:780M   o.SN  100.0           36   36    11      93     L99"       97        24                  97        75       9
BARBADOS        76   0.2  2,080D    8.1W  100.0          43   31    16      99     106        99        21      19.99       99        94K      j7
COSTA RICA      78   21 1610           6.6       ..      370  279  30       900      93       77        32      11.8?        77       39*      19     13.00X
CUBA            78   9.7  1,3000    8.0...               .....       ... 96.         98       98        212       ..         90       65       15i    11.20
00141Nt1AN REP~ 72   5.114   90014   3.0         ..      42   24   22       51       80       17        54        4.18       63       1.4      24      7.00
EL SALVADO0R   77   4 .3ti  64014   4.0           .      64     8   27      62       85K      32        39        ...        41       23       21      7 .00
GUATENALA       73   6.6H4  ?3014   1.9          ...    55   2!3   14       47       64       26        35        ...-       69        8       25      4.09Y
HAITI           76   4.814   24014   1.0    100.0        61    21    11     230      259      13        560       8.6        62         4      ...     0.7
NONDURAS        79   3.4 I  480l    4:29                 62F  15F  199    60F5    78          30        35      12.899?    68a        11       17      4.00
JAMAUICA        80   2.    1,240K    6.5    100.0        37   43   20       90      98        98        40)      2.         95        81      22       8.00
MEXICO          80   67.4 1.810        5.0     76.6      46   39   15s    92         98       53        44        9.5        86       56       17     10.30
NICARAGUA       78   2. S      660     3.0W   100.0      610  <30  1.30    90L       61  -    24        44        7.30       930E       AL     37      7.0001
PANAMA          78   1,8  1. 260       5.4               420  130  13       786      97       8120      320      11.6        8150     49       346    20.O0
TRINIDAD 8 T. 77 1.114   3,10114   4 5    100.0          48   32    20      95       98       91        30      10.5?        49-      62       24
SOUTH AMERICA
ARGENTINA   '8~~7  267.7  1,9101    :4.4             430  31F  188      93      8         52r       17        ...       87        31        a     23.00
BOLIVIA         7     .14     511950 .              ..                     4L       8900      29q      24       4..B ...4 1C
BRAZIL          7519514 S.101    2.0                     420 -2D  220    64A         889F               278?      ...        ...      26        5?     6.006
CHILE            75t 10714 1,47014    3.8RY  S1.0?lA  23?  1OY  S0Y    ...    1909            ..       35?       Q.896A    ...       48K?    ...    16.55Y
COLOIMPIA       74  25.6H4  9001    3.3C?         .      44C? 225Y 11Y   78C    1055?         20        33?      11.06       90       361Y    146      6.679
ECUADOR         80 8.4  <.3699    6.0          96.       45    31    16     8       05       48        36       12.6        86       47       16      28.70
GUYANA          74   0.84       6014   I.81N  100.0      47    35   14      836      935      39        33       19.80       19       62X      24      1 .00
PARAIGUAY       79   3.0,   92014   1.4   100.0          42    1?   20      84       82       32        28        3.1k       75       22       12      7.00
PERU            75  16,814   68014   4.2CY    ...        40?   229  15?    72       11159      18       39CY    11.06        70       485?    235?   14.41?
URIUGUAY        75   2.914 1,790H   2.5    100.0         46   34   210      94       930        .       24       12.3E       33        ...     10       ..
VENEZUELA       73  14.014 2.85GH   4.6W    72.OT6   300  280  350   776    831                ...      33        ...       ...       33      -...    12.630Y



-35--
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION I~NDICATORS (CONTLI)                              ANNEX I  FAIiE 2
I GNP/                 !E7JTRAL:X  OF PURLIC                       I          :PR4I. :RECURkENt:                      !SEC
:CAPITA:           :GOVT.     EDUCATION    :LITER- I FRI. ICOMPLE- :STU- IUNET COST'IPROGRESS-: SEC. :;~Tu- :HI:6Rr.:
* IAT                :EXP.ON    RECUIRRENT    lACY       :iLNRDLLITION      :11ENIS:)-RIM. ED'. ImJ  RATE IENRO)LLITENSIT;NROLLI
*   :MARKLET: I' GNP   :ED. AS/.:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE !RATIO :RATE FORFPE:R  :A    GNklFkfpRo  F'RI. :RATIO :FFP  IRA) TI
I'POP  :PRICES: D[VOTCII:PUE.EXPI         TI):      :1?  OF      NET   :1-RI.SCH. ITFACH: CAPITA   :TO SEC.      NET   :TEACH- OR<IJV(:
Yk:MILLS.:  US$): TO EL1U.108 EDU.:PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (%)  :CYCLE(.):Ek                                (Z)      I (1)  :lEA    I 
(I)  1(2)        (3)    I(4)             (5)       I(6)        (7)      (8)       (41)    (10)         (11)      (12) Id(13) 1(14)
ASIA ANDI OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    77  14.6H  16014    1,8         100.D   47   19    is        12     29K        69        37      13.8       62          ox     17       1.0(1
EANGLAIIESH     79  92.9H   91,        1 .I LP    .      51    17   20      226    715        ...       53       6. 2P     ...        14X    23       (.43
CHIN4A          791 971.0   2516       3.3      69,      34   36   30       66     93         64        2 7      8.0       83        SiX      I)      2.00
INDIA           75 643.91H  lSOO       2.)Y                    .97B   6SKY                    ..        43A     ..           .       25YY   2369Y   2 . A4Ey
INDONES,IA      78 136.O14  340        2.4W              2 60   3 20 O  1 5(3B  62  921       48       32       ...        70         19      17l     2.00
IRAN            73  35. (1H  ...       3.3W    ..       508   188  128   50        77     -740         32       ...       80A        24       32      4.32CY
IRAG            71  12.214 1,050M4  6.7CA   ...          ...... 26C   93KT                    ...      22       ..  ...              31 ,IKY    26C   8~.47Y
JOEliAR         79   2.2  1,18014   6.8         1 4.3    19   44   18       70     97X        85       32        7.2      94         65       2_ 1   (4.004
KOREA           78  36.6  1,310        2. 8W    89.OC  35   29   36         93     102K       94        49       9.6C      91         60      45     18.00
LEBANON         7:!  3.014 ...*        3,50     .        39   40    10      68     86         65        19      23.2B      63        26W      23     23.00
MALAYSTA        76  1:4,i. 31  1.15014   6.70   70.00  42   34   1 1        60B   9!;         93       32        6. 60     78        48       78      3.00
NEFPAL          7.4  13.6N  12014      I 1.1             2 j .. 9   20   41  19    19         28       31        .         64        14       24       ).8a
OMAN            721   .814 2,79014    1.7NW  ..         96   -       -      20    241         99       217F    25.0?       . ..      0.4X    9       ..
PAKISTAN        79  78.0   270         2.0     ...      39   26   27        24     56Kl       50E      48        6.5       ...       20K      (7      6. OOE
PAF'UA N.0.     75,  2.914  62014      5. 4LtW  100.0   38    16   24       32     57?        73P      31       28 01?    90          12X?   24       0.9?0?
PHILIF'PINES   79  46.B   600          2.8U     14,0   64   36***           7!1     84        613      31        7.0       89 .      55       36.  21.00)
SINGAPORIE      74   2.314 3,2o0H   2. 7YW  100.0   39Y  39Y  179    72A   109XY              72A      31Y       7.4A     99A        44XY   24        7.68Y
SYRIA           78   7.9   96014    4 .4        ..       39   25   26       se      89Kx      80       35        7.7E      68        '41K     21     (2.60
THArLAND        77   44.15  530        4.DVW   .        55   30   15 814F   53                30       35       ID.0oc     70        20       25      3.00
TURKEY          73  43.114 1,250H4  !...CYLJ.            ...... ...859                        ...      34Y       7.2A      ...       24Y    27DY   5.83Y
YEhEN           73   5.614  41014    0.50    100.0   45F  21P  233P   10           15K        18       36       19.2      71          2K      IV      0.0189
YEMEN P.D.R.  76   1.814  45014    6.631    ..,         57   28       8     40K   89K         48       30       18.6      94         218      74      0.10
SLIMMARY FOR DEVELOP'ING CNOUNTRIES:
NEUMBER OF CnOUNTRTES:                1021    54       89   90   90        94     101       81        101      71        813       100      0       87
RANGE:                              (6.5-  (14.3-   (20  (8-  (3-    (5-    113-          (13-       (16-    (1.1       '63-       (.4-      -       0-
9.9 I 100.01    964 73)  50)   99)   1 3:1)   99                69    52.5)    991            95    454)  41.0)
QUAPTILES:UPPER I5.6                       90.5      49   35   22       86      98        91        42      9?         91         4 0     25      11.0
MEIIIANI         ~~~~ ~~~4.2  1 00. 0    4 2   26   18  60    8 2        65       34      13         ts        '24      2         .
LOWER 1                3.0      100,0   34   21    13       2 5    56         33    -29         20         41         it      18B      1.0
SYMBOLS51... DATUM1 ONAVAIL.4BLE               A=1971 0R BEFORE             N-CUJRRENT PRICES                         sOURCES:
-  140N17ULF `lL OR NEGLIGIBLE B=1972                          P6trlp----
OWEsriONAbLE                     CxI973                       O-INCLuDING FOREIGN AID                    CfOLUKNS:I ANt' 2 WORLD BAN4K ATLAS
r ICLUDIES PARr-TTPE STUDENTS D=1974                           R-CENTkAL ODVT. ONLY                                           DP (650l HTSSIONS
*8CCK'rNEE' WITH PRIMARY           E=1975                       S=MINISTRY OF' EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 tO 14 11r0 MISSIOINS
**COMBINED .(OTH HIGNER             F=19176                      T-M(E AND' STATE Or(VT. O2NLY                                 4140/OR UNESCO
0=1977                      U=EXCLUE'INT, CENTRAL GO'(T.                                   srATISTIC/AL
H=1976                      V-IHCLUDINS PRIUATE EXFEHI'CTUQE                               YEARBOOK
K=1979                      W=PUJBLIC EXFENEII TORE ONLY
L=1980                      K~INCLUDI NO OVERAGED STUDENTS
8=1981                      Y=UNESCO SUURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL. IN THE EV.JLUAtION IF VARIOUS EDIUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE S-TAGES OF It-UCATTONAL
D4EVELOPMIENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HI(WEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT CDATA,CROSS-q4ATI0NAL Cr(KFARTSON SHOULr' FE AFPPROlACHED 01t14
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PkECENTED IN TNE AB4OVE TABLE HAVE SEIEN COLLE.CZED, LARGEL_Y 89 THE aANK MISSIONS FROM GIOVERNMENT SOURCCSi THE
RETIAIME'ER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR TIATA FROM LUNESCU, ErFkOrTI HAVE BEEN MPIIF Tf) ITANT'AREIZTE DEFINITIONO- AND0 WITHIN LIMITS, TO LHEC.6 THE
ACCURACY OF THiE D-ATA. NEVJERT(IELEIF.,!CCh jATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESP-ECIS -.D THE SIANk Ili wURKNr4 TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASiION OF IT3 OPE.rATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF TH4ESE DATA. TH4E FOLL-OWING U4UALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE 1N
81140:
tI)'Et1JCATI0N' AS DEFINED) IN THE TABLiE rINLLIcES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND 14714-FORMAL)
(2) PRIMAR't ErDUCATIOIN REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECOND'ARYr EDUCATION REFFIS TO ALL EDUCAtION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVJEL REGARDLESS OP TYP'E (E.O. 6ENERAL , 7FECHNICAL. AGRICUJLTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATEST(COL.f/ ARE OFTEN) OBTAINED FROM CIUNTfRY CENSUISES. IN MIANY COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND0 IT IS
DOI(BTF!.L1 THAT ANY UNIFORM DPI-FNITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN TOLLOWEDI CONSISTENTLY;
(4)'PUE'LIC EXPENO1T(TRE IN EDUCAT 1714' (COLE 4 ANDI 5) REFER!` TO ALL CAP'ITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOT0ED To EDucArlON 89Y
PUBLIC AND al00S1-PUBLIC ANENCIES;
(S)'E14R0LLMENT RATIOS'(COLS, 7, 12 ANTI 14) REFER TO SCHOOL TEAR ANT', MEAN THE F'ERCENTAGE OF EL-IGIBLE! CHILDREN ENRODLLEDi FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND FPRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OF'TEN SU1'JECT TO A WlEE MARGIN OB ERROR IN THE EIIUELOP!IHO
COUNTRIES OWIlNG IO VARIATION T1N THE fCr.IRACT OF ZDASIC T'ATA(I.E. AGF-SPECIFIZ POPULATION ANtI ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMEN, PIO-ukES
FkEQUENTL,Y ARE HTLHER' THIAN 'HE SlUMDER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOUL. OVERAi(ED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOnTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOTS.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC IV
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1979/80
Female                                                  Male
Female
Enroll-
ment as %
of Total
As % of        As %           Enroll-
Total           of          nment in
Enroll-         Age           Each
Grade & Level     Total                                                               ment          Group          Level
University
16                                        58  454
15                                        45  554
14                                       118   40
13           4,191                              2,011                             1.2            1.1           10.3
Secondaryp/                               (432)
12                                       339    2,567
11                                       568    3,252                                                                                                                                   u
10          10,406                       480    3,200                             2.8            2.7           13.3
PreparatorYvl                            (1,387
9                                       95     l   5,861
8                                     1,036       4,969
7          21,292                     1ill          7,364                        5.8            4.9           14.6
Primary                                (3.098)
6                                    2,337:    1          147
4                                   4,3101                          28,670,
3                                  5,718           ,,,               43,417
2                                7,867 r                                                     62,215,2 1
1        332,122        18,4151                                                                                                             124,97E1 2 ,93
368,011      (41,547)
50,000                 20,1000                     20,000         40,000          60,000        80,000         100,000         120,000
I      I       I      I       I      I       I      I       I      I     .     I  I       I       I      I       I      I      i
Source: Compiled by the mission from statistics prepared by the Department of Statistics,
Ministry of Education and the University of Sana'a, April 1980.
Notes: a/ including teacher training, industrial, commercial and agricultural enrollments.
t/including teacher training enrollments.                                                                                       World Bank -22130
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



-37-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC IV
EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ISSUES
1.       The development of the education system in YAR and the main
educational isues related to: (a) primary and preparatory education; (b)
diversified secondary education; (c) vocational training and adult
education; (d) teacher training; and (e) higher education are summarized in
the following sections.
(a) Primary and Preparatory Education (Grades 1-6 and 7-9)
2.       Despite the significant progress in expansion of primary education
(332,122 students in 1979/80), inequalities persist by region and by sex.
In general, social traditions do not place a high value on education for
girls. The expansion of preparatory education (21,296 students in 1979/80)
has been moderate. However, this may be supplemented by education received
by migrants' children in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
3.       The number of primary schools nearly doubled between 1975/76 and
1979/80; in the latter year, there were 2,513 schools with 9,556 classes.
During 1979/80, the school construction program included 246 primary and 14
preparatory schools; the 1980/81 construction program includes an
additional 186 primary and 10 preparatory schools. The number of
preparatory schools increased from 134 in 1975/76 to 200 with 656 classes
in 1979/80 (some 14 schools were constructed in 1979/80). The location of
primary schools is initiated largely by the local development associations
(LDAs), who finance part of the construction costs, and also by donor
agencies and the regional education directorates. The School Building Unit
(SBU) of the Ministry of Education (MOE), assisted by the Project
Implementation Unit for IDA education projects, has developed satisfactory
standardized designs of primary school buildings, and these are available
to the regional education directorates and LDAs. lJnit capital costs are
high due to high construction costs associated with the low productivity of
the construction industry and importation of almost all uilding materials.
An inventory of schools although initiated in 1976 still remains
inadequate. No systematic school location planning has been conducted by
the MOE clearly identifying future demands for school places at the
regional and district levels and the extent of population migration either
to cities and towns in YAR or to neighboring Arab countries. Despite the
past program of school construction, in 1979/80 only 49.2% of all primary
schools had all six grades of schooling. Also many new primary schools had
remained closed in 1976/77. Merely increasing the construction program
will not solve this essentially qualitative problem.
4.       The rapid expansion of the primary education system that has taken
place has been at the expense of efficiency and quality. Dropouts remain
the most serious problem. In 1977/78 dropout rates in grade 1 were 28.2%
for boys and 36.1% for girls; in grade 3 the rates were 33.5% for boys and



-38-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
20.5% for girls. A further indicator of education quality is the low pass
rates of 62% and 51% in the 1978/79 final examinations of the primary and
preparatory schools, respectively. In 1978/79, the completion rate in
primary schooling was a low 12%; however, the transition rate from primary
to preparatory schooling was a high 85%.
5.       To meet the rapid pace of increasing student enrollments, the
Government has relied on recruiting teachers from Egypt and Syria. In
1979/80, there were 4,111 non-Yemeni primary school teachers and 942 non-
Yemeni preparatory school teachers. In the past two years, the Government
has also begun to replace poorly qualified Yemeni teachers who had been
utilized in the early days of YAR's educational system. The Government has
had no difficulty in recruiting expatriate teachers on contracts as monthly
salaries of YlRs 2,730 are quite attractive in comparison with salaries in
their own countries. As a result of these actions, in 1980 a mere 15% of
the 10,576 primary school teachers were Yemeni. However, because of the
contractual arrangements with subject area expatriate teachers, the
teacher-student ratio is generous.
(b) Diversified Secondary Education (Grades 10-12)
6.       The diversification of secondary education into arts, commerce and
science streams, technical and agricultural schooling has progressed
remarkably, though not at the rates targetted. The transition rate from
preparatory to secondary schooling in 1978/79 was 100%. The number of
general secondary schools more than doubled between 1975/76 and 1979/80
with enrollment reaching 8,054 in the latter year. Secondary schooling is
now available in 8 governorates where formerly it was available only in 4.
There has also been a favorable shift towards enrolling in the science
streams of the general secondary schools. In 1979/80, 70% of the enroll-
ments in grades 11 and 12 were in the science stream. The school building
program in 1979/80 comprised the construction of 12 general secondary
schools with an enrollment capacity of 3,600 students. The 1980/81
construction program includes an additional 4 secondary schools.
7.       The enrollment in commercial secondary schools and commercial
streams of secondary schools did not increase significantly between 1975/76
and 1979/80. In the latter year, the enrollment stood only at 394.
8.       The MOE technical secondary school (TSS) at Sana'a, established in
1972, and that at Taiz, established in 1980, will be graduating by 1983
initially about 200 middle level technicians in the building construction,
surveying, automotive, mechanical, electrical and electronic technologies.
A telecommunication secondary school, under the Ministry of Communications,
has been in operation since 1968. The MOE agricultural secondary school
(ASS) at Ibb, established in 1979, and that at Surdud, expected to open in
1981, will be graduating by 1985 about 140 middle level agricultural
technicians annually. The MOE livestock secondary school will begin to
train from 1982 some 60 animal health assistants annually.



-39-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
9.       As the expansion in secondary level enrollments was moderate, the
internal efficiency has been comparatively satisfactory. The passing per-
centages in the final examinations (grade 12) held in the 1978/79 session
were: 72% for the science stream; 58% for the arts stream; 86% for the
commercial stream and 99% for the technical stream. The transition rate
from secondary schooling to the university in 1978/79 was a satisfactory
78%. Some weaknesses exist, particularly in science laboratory work, in
the use of science demonstration equipment provided for the schools and in
the preparation of science collections relevant to the YAR situation. A
USAID assisted Science Education Program has been initiated with the
objective of developing a science education program and courses for
preparatory and secondary school teachers in science.
10.      The secondary education system is like the rest of the education
system overwhelmingly dependent on a non-Yemeni teaching force. In
1978/79, there were in the general secondary schools 452 non-Yemeni
teachers and only 28 Yemeni teachers. Most of the graduates from the
Faculty of Education of the University of Sana'a have gone into filling the
administrative positions of principals and vice-principals of the YAR
school system. However, as further trainees graduate from the Faculty of
Education as planned, the numbers of Yemeni secondary school teachers
should increase satisfactorily. A significant majority of the teachers of
specialized subjects in the TSS's and ASS's were non-Yemeni. This
development points to the continued and pressing need to attract qualified
Yemeni candidates into the teaching profession.
(c) Vocational Training and Adult Education
11.      Institutional vocational training programs for skills development,
whether under the MOE or other ministries, have been slow in evolving. The
main reasons for this have been the delays in recruiting expatriate voca-
tional instructors and the failure to attract trainees in sufficient
numbers. A vocational training center (VTC) for hbighway personnel that had
trained only 98 personnel between 1974-77 is being redesigned as part of a
new training facility being financed under the third IDA highway project.
The Yemen General Electricity Corporation, which had a small training
center since 1974, has established a new center which began operation with
84 in-service trainees under an agreement between the YAR Government and
l'Electricite de France; each in-service trainee now receives a stipend of
YR1 850 per month and boarding facilities are also available. At the two
agricultural extension agent training centers with a total of 50 trainee
places, the MOA requires a bond from the trainees to serve it for five
years following the completion of the courses. Because of difficulty in
recruiting preparatory school graduates, the entry qualification was
lowered to between 6 and 9 grades.
12.      The first MOE VTC, established under the first IDA education proj-
ect, with FRG assistance at Sana'a has been more successful. A timely
training program for Yemeni vocational instructors ensured their availa-



-40-
Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
bility with the West German chief instructors at the start of the VTC pro-
grams. A first setback in attracting the required number of admissions to
the VTC courses was overcome by a widely advertised campaign in the
schools; some 144 trainees were admitted in 1979/80, but because of a
change in admissions policy by the MOE in the subsequent year the numbers
of admission fell to 90. A satisfactory admissions policy has been evolved
for the 1981/82 session. Three other MOE VTCs at Taiz, Hodeidah and
Dhammar, also established under the first and second IDA education
projects, came on stream in October 1980. Although some 130 trainees
registered at the VTC, Hodeidah, there was a significant dropout as the
stipends could not cover the transportation expenses of the trainees. A
total of 207 students are in the first year program of the VTC and TSS at
Taiz. The annual output from these 4 MOE VTCs can reach about 800
tradesmen/artisans by 1983; 500 from full time courses and 300 from part
time courses. However, the planned annual rate of admissions to the MOE's
VTC's can be achieved, in face of competition from the VTC's of technical
ministries and secondary schools, only by offering adequate incentives
comprising a combination of (i) higher stipends, (ii) boarding, and (iii)
transportation. There.is also a need to remedy the current lack of
awareness among the employing agencies about the existing or planned
in-country vocational training facilities and to provide a forum for
evaluating all training certificates for employment or further education.
13.      Adult non-formal education is sponsored by a number of ministries
and is characterized by absence of coordination among them. The Ministry
of Health conducts health care classes at its health centers; the Ministry
of Information and Culture provides home-economics training for women at
community development centers; and at the MOA's many extension centers,
instruction to farmers now incorporates elements of rural development and
to women in home economics and social services. The MOE's adult literacy
program, which was initiated in the early.l970's has grown ste4dily over
the years. This adult literacy program aims to provide adults and out-
of-school adults with the equivalent of grade 4 literacy and numeracy
skills. The literacy centers are MOE schools in which literacy classes are
held in the afternoons with school teachers as instructors. With the
establishment by the MOE of district training centers (DTCs) under the
first and second IDA education projects, elementary skill training courses
in industrial and construction trades combined with functional literacy
courses are additional to the adult literacy programs. In 1979/80, some
12,600 were enrolled in 97 literacy centers and seven DTCs. The DTC
elementary skill training courses are conducted wholly by expatriate
vocational instructors; and consequently are comparable in costs to those
of the MOE VTCs. This program can only expand when Yemeni vocational
instructors become available and the current single afternoon shifts are
supplemented with additional morning work shifts.



-41-
Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
(d) Teacher and Instructor Training
14.      Faced with the rapid enrollment growth in primary education, the -
MOE instituted in the 1970's primary teacher training institutes (PTTIs) at
2 levels the preparatory level (grades 7-9) and the secondary level (grades
10-12. Progress in the training of Yemeni primary teachers in the PTTIs
has been desultory. The PTTI enrollments, during the period 1975/76-
1979/80, remained static at the preparatory level but nearly doubled at the
secondary level, as the MOE decided to phase out the preparatory level PTTI
program. Of the total 1979/80 enrollment of about 1,640, nearly 37% was
female but at the secondary level the percentage was higher, namely 42%.
With the MOE's decision to phase out preparatory level PTTIs in order to
upgrade Yemeni primary teachers, the outputs from the PTTIs will meet only
one-third of the expected annual demand for additional primary teachers by
1982/83. On the other hand, the physical capacity of all the 25 PTTIs,
including those recently constructed, has been estimated to be 3 times the
current enrollments and so no new construction is presently necessary.
15.      The scope for increasing the numbers of admissions to the PTTIs is
limited in face of competition for admissions to the general secondary and
technical schools. More attention needs to be given to increasing the flow
through the primary and preparatory education system (para. 4), to
providing incentives for students to attend the PTTIs, as well as to
increasing the quality of training being provided in the PTTIs. At
present, little specific practical training is undertaken in the PTTIs and
less than 10% of the program is devoted to methodology. Increasing the
quality of training in the PTTIs would mean more stringent selection
procedures for the largely non-Yemeni teacher trainers in the PTTIs who
numbered 71 out of 83 staff in 1979;in 1980 all 102 teacher trainers were
non-Yemeni. The training of Yemeni PTTI teacher trainers was initiated in
1979 under the USAID/Eastern Michigan University program whereby annually
some 30 instructors will receive a 12-month inservice training in Sana'a
followed by a 2-year course of studies in the USA leading to a M. Ed degree
and a further 12-month in-service training in YAR. The first batch of
teacher trainers for the PTTIs will become available from 1983; a total of
about 175 teachers.trainers will have been trained under this program. Of
much concern is the retention of these teacher trainers in the MOE system.
16.      The MOE, realizing the education system has large numbers of
uncertified or poorly qualified Yemeni primary teachers, initiated in
August 1980, with assistance from UNICEF, an in-service training project
using a multi-stage approach. First some 10 Yemeni supervisors will be
trained, who in turn will train groups of headmasters for a period of
two-weeks, who then will impart training at each place to groups of primary
teachers. The targets of this project over 1980-85 are 15 educational
supervisors, 150 school headmasters, 2,000 unqualified teachers and
refresher courses for some 1,200 qualified teachers.



-42-
Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
17.      Significant progress has been made under the University of Sana'a
Faculty of Education in expanding the training of Yemeni preparatory and
secondary school teachers since 1973. Although in 1979/80 the total
student enrollment of the Faculty of Education was 758, in the 1980/81
session as many as 450 students were admitted to the Faculty's first-year
class. It has been estimated that by 1984/85 the annual output of
graduates from the Faculty of Education will begin to satisfy the annual
needs for additional preparatory and secondary teachers, although it will
take another 5 years before replacement of all non-Yemeni teachers in
preparatory and secondary schools. The reasons for success have been,
firstly, that all students in the Faculty of Education receive a stipend of
YR 450 per month and, in addition, those who are employees of the MOE
receive 3/4 of their monthly salary. Secondly, all graduates have promise
of their employment in the MOE. Consideration should be given,
nevertheless, to the introduction of a two-year diploma program to train
preparatory teachers, which could inject a greater number of trained Yemeni
teachers in this cycle of education.
18.      Vocational instructors for the VTCs (para. 12) and DTCs (para. 13)
are currently recruited from abroad. A limited out-of-country training
ofYemeni vocational instructors through bi-lateral arrangements has been
initiated by the MOE. The expansion of skill training programs to meet
expected demand for semi-skilled and skilled manpower remains constrained
by the high salaries paid to expatriate vocational instructors. It has
been estimated that for the current ongoing programs of the VTCs, DTCs and
the TSSs alone, some 151 Yemeni vocational instructors will need to be
trained.  Hence, efforts are needed to initiate training of vocational
instructors in YAR. The People's Democratic Republic of China has enhanced
the scope of its current technical assistance program in technical
education to encompass a post-secondary 2 year training program for
vocational instructors at Sana'a.
(e) Higher Education
19.      The University of Sana'a is the only institution of higher educa-
tion in YAR' with Faculties of Literature, Law (Shariat), Science, Commerce
and Education. In 1979/80, the student enrollment of the University was
4,200 students of whom 82% were full-time and the remainder part-time.
Some 10.3% of this enrollment was female. The Faculty of Commerce had the
largest enrollment because of employment prospects in YAR and neighboring
Arab countries, whilst the Faculty of Science had the smallest. Recent
steps taken by the University to increase numbers of admissions to the
Faculties of Education (para. 17) and Science have been successful. In the
1980/81 session, 300 students were admitted to the first-year class of the
Faculty of Science as there was an increase of secondary school graduates
from the science streams (para. 6).



-43-
Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
20.      The University was reasonably well-staffed in 1978/79 with a
satisfactory overall staff student ratio of 1:23, although with dependence
on a large expatriate teaching staff. In the past three years, however,
the University has been successful in attracting qualified Yemenis to
return from abroad to take up teaching appointments.
21.      An analysis of the University examination results for 1978/79
showed that the overall success rate of those appearing at the examinations
was 65% with a variation by faculty and class year (the highest percentage
of success has been for students of the Faculty of Education (para. 17).
The success rate is lower for students in their first two years of studies,
indicative of the low standard of formal secondary schooling for university
degree studies. It was also observed that only 74% of those enrolled in
1978/79 sat for the university examinations.  This was partly due to
students dropping out for financial reasons. Also, students leave the
University when they secure admission abroad, particularly to Faculties of
Applied Sciences (Engineering and Medicine) in Arab countries as these
opportunities do not exist at present in YAR.  No detailed analyses have
been made as to whether the students continue in the disciplines for which
they have obtained admissions, or the rate of their success or how many on
completion of their studies have returned to YAR for employment.
22.      The recurrent expenditure per student at the University of Sana'a
was a comparatively high YR1 9,700 in the 1978/79 session, principally
because of high teacher-student ratio of 1:4 in the faculty of science
having a low student enrollment of 170 in that faculty. However, in
1980/81 session some 300 students were admitted to the first year class of
the faculty of science and, as a consequence, the recurrent unit cost is
expected to decline as the enrollments further increase as larger numbers
graduate from the secondary school science streams and enter into the
faculty (para. 6).
23.      In higher education, there is scope for introducing multiple-level
educational arrangements, adding a first level for training to sub-pro-
fessional qualification. The University authorities initiated
consideration of multiple-level educational arrangements two years ago, as
the civil service grades allow for employment of those successfully
completing two- year post-secondary education programs. The National
Institute of Public Administration (two branches of which are being
assisted under the third IDA education project) has reached agreement with
the University in its plans to introduce a two-year post-secondary training
program for civil service employees in financial, personnel and s,ecretarial
disciplines. The training of vocational instructors (para. 18) will also
comprise a two-year post-secondary program.
24.      Out-of-country training programs in higher education for pro-
fessional occupations have met with limited success. A MOA proposal for
overseas post-graduate program to train 38 civil engineers during 1976-80
did not materialize because no suitable Yemeni candidates were available.
The Yemeni General Electric Corporation, which expects to recruit 76
engineers during 1979-83, has only been able to recruit on an average of 2
university graduates per year during recent years.



-44-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Priority Work Programs of the
Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC)
(a) Enrollment dynamics including measurement of productivity and
efficiency of primary schooling.
1.       Information regarding student input and flow, graduates, drop-outs
and efficiency in the principal parts of the education system, although
available to some degree, requires systematization and regularization to
become an effective element in the planning process to be established
within the ERDC. Under the proposed work program, as a pilot project, the
supply of available data will first be reviewed and a set of quantitative
indicators identified, along with the computational methods needed to
calculate them. A suitable disaggregation of information according to
level and type of schooling, as well as according to region, will also be
introduced. Information not presently feasible will be recommended for
future collection. This pilot study is expected to last six months,
following which the responsibility for the regular computation and use of
information on enrollment dynamics will be transferred to the appropriate
MOE agency. Some 10 consultancy staff weeks and 54 professional level YAR
staff weeks are estimated for completion of this work program.
(b) Study of teacher supply and retention.
2.        The absolute numbers of Yemenis engaged in the teaching
profession, especially at the primary level, have been declining, thus
increasing the country's already heavy dependence on contracted foreign
teachers. Salaries, conditions of service, job security and status, among
other things, probably bear on the situation. The need for salary
increases for teachers was recognized by the Government and salary
increases were announced early in 1981. In the proposed work program, the
objective is to identify ways in which the attractiveness of the teaching
profession can be enhanced in the eyes of the young Yemenis, through an
understanding of the attitudes of Yemeni individuals and Yemeni society
towards the profession. The activities of this work program will comprise
preliminary interviews, a questionnaire-based survey, analysis, follow-up
and recommendations. The activities would also include a plan to alter the
incentive structure for the teaching profession. A duration of nine months
is estimated, timed to take place in conjunction with the school inventory
work program. Some 12 consultant staff weeks and 70 professional level YAR
staff weeks would be required.



-45-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
(c) Review and revision of curricula for teacher training and
vocational/technical education.
3.       As a result of the rapid expansion of teacher training and voca-
tional/technical education in YAR over the past several years, in response
to the pressing needs of national development, the curricula presently used
for these courses are in many instances not wholly appropriate. Having for
the most part been prepared for use in other contexts and in other coun-
tries, they tend not to be entirely suitable to the educational needs and
prior training of Yemeni students with which they are applied. Before
embarking on the massive task of revising or replacing these curricula, a
thorough review of them is called for. The work program includes a review
based on an examination of textbooks and related materials and on sample
interviews of a spectrum of those involved in education, both students and
educators, and in employment. On that foundation, an evaluation of exist-
ing conditions regarding these curricula will be prepared, together with an
action plan for their revision and Yemenisation, taking into account both
educational needs and known resource constraints. Some 19 consultant staff
weeks and 44 professional level YAR staff weeks would be required over a
period of six months.
(d) Educational facilities inventory
4.       There is good reason to believe that one source of low producti-
vity of schools, especially primary schools, is that in some schools avail-
able places are vacant, while in others there may be overcrowding or an
incomplete range of grades (para. 3, Annex 3). An educational facilities
inventory is essential as a precursor to improved school location planning
as well as to determining which schools require urgent upgrading of their
facilities. The proposed work program, which is expected to be of 18
months' duration, comprises the stages of analyses of information available
centrally, interviews at sample schools, a survey of all schools and an
analyses of the resulting returns. To accomplish this, some 20 staff weeks
of consultancy and 165 professional level of YAR staff-weeks would be
required.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



4 66
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTh P00UCAT00N PROJECT
0TAFF APPRAISALO REPORT
summay    nolm~adEatimotod Project Cot
BoildiooE                        itr                      aopo                   ProR. lo-icaaFiowh-                                             Ep-ote                     Coo-lt-sta               RotaryBFll,o                    Bret  Frog-                P-oject to YRIa           Bus
Proj-t Crow                             Lot-E   F-rio    Tota    Local  Focigo  Total   Local   Fo-igo  Toto1   locaI  Forigo   Total   LocaI  F-iee$   Tota o1                            s   Poreigo   Total   taL..        oreigo   Total   Local  Focego   Total   Lo-e   Foric0    Toto1   Loca   F.ito go   Total    TOTAL
CAD oluoiaOpa-aot           3,700   5,670   9,450           00      010       900      540   4,860   5,400                 3,150   3,150        501   0,300    2,903         6 56    3.431    4,189         95       302       4077        --                                                   5,944  00,604  24,560    5,904
--orrocoiRci-S                   378      567       545         9       01       90        54      486       500        -        50      150        09      116       145         43       172      314         5        t9       2A         -                                                        10    1,598   2,116         470
9401           _7_5_0 00                              -     1,        000                                     190       OAR      544       5  4        33      836        34        50        9         -         -         -         -        -         - 034          000      561       1,4
Tota                                 5,409    0.109   00,600        1t4    1,090    1,057        90      ,5       ,224zl %%                               06     %%        2       120         ,3        ,4          3        6         9                                                 2         2      _8622  5.5_13  34,099   1_22
a-d Orrolp-yo                          5,06R    4,564  10,350         90       910      000       203   1,603   0,005            -        -         -      944    3,064   4,730         5 40    2,196   2,745           -         -         --                           -    1,010         0    1,010    8,590   13,107  20,767   4,637
OolocotrooyootioRoooiet       5~~1097     451    1,705         9       01       I          0       10       23          -        -         -       4        100       36       2 27       110       137                                                                  50        0        "t      733    1,019    1,052         309
Price rooticoroctot  0,037       756   0,795         6~~~~~~~~~~5 00   060      0147      45        60   -         -                      303      564       6007        95       340      536                   -                                             10 6        0      lOB    2,950    2,31R    5,000    1,171
Tota                                 8,401   5 ,  7   1412          164    1,090    0,250        500  2%582   2,828            2                       1,310    4337    5R954          771   206440    3,416           2a                                                     ,2                1,5    12,276  16,514   18,769    6,398
Teaher Salary
Sopploe-tPoF-                              -                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6         -- ---- --            ,44  0    1,644  -       ,644         0    1,644        365
Baorecoyo-         ortio                              -                                                                                                                                                                                               2         0        62         -82-                        6          0       6021
-  -  -  -  -        -         -        -         -        2        2         2        2         2          2         2        2                   -        -~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~           ~    ~ ~~          ~~~ 1,100  0    1,100  2       1,100  2    1,100  249
Total                                     2        2         2        2                                                                                                                                                                      20,648             2,4-                                 - 2,648            0     204083
Stod-or Oo-dioR
7TI, Ibb                                1,195       943   2,1308                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,9          4       ,3          7
PTTI   ltoa                             1:195       943   2,130          --                          -         --                           -        -         -        --                                                                                                                                  1,095       043    2,136        475
VTC/rHA,0'aOt                           1,399       9634   0,1306        -         -        -         --                          -         -        -         --                                     -         -                            -                                                         -     ,15        943    2,138        475
BTT-dcidag                              4,394    1,040    8,379                                                                                      -         -        -         -          -        -         --                                                                                          1,326    1, 048   2 ,3 76       526
oa_r_d       _iio_i                      4,914   3,006       8 1,90                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4,916    3,606    0,090    1,053
Ootoco-     ocn1ogoc7340                            3604   8,70         4-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                38-79-
Pritetootttgootioa  0,730      044  3J74            2         2        2         -        -         2        2         2        2         2        2         2          2                  2         2                            2         2                                           1,730       644    27          527
Yotai                      ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~7,135    4,900   1 2,040 -2                       -                  -                                                                                      -         -        -         -         -         --                 -                         ,3       ,0B 1,4             ,
ocit                                       -         -        -                                    2    2   00 4     20416                              -                        -      5309   2,236    2.795           -         -         -         -                  ----                                501    2,430    3,011         669
Ott orooctI'l cootoc-ir                                                                              2           19    02 2                              -                                 280      112       140                  -                                                                             0       11       113
Fricecootiooeociea  -  -  -         -        -       16        40       64         -         -        -                  -         -      196        347       546                  -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -       004      396       610       036~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~98  47    z  z1-4~ II6-    L3
cal-t                                                                - -1                         39     20         02622 2O22                                                          852   2,695    3,401          -         -        -                   -- -                         -         -      6~25    2,957    3,702       840
4, FRitz                            04,479   04,111  26,590         160   1,500    0,600         054    6,070    0,641          - 3,150    0,150    1,507    4,006   0,633,   1,9 66    7,663    9,2                  95       300      477    1,644          0    1,044    1,4(17         0    1,010   01,670   eO,100   o1,700
00:306                     316      433          a       340       400        00    1,506    0,9610                          000      339    1,57    166          4 30    1740        1814        01        5       106       365         0      365       226         0      226   4,816    0,913   13,029
ic 761,:                              1,448   1,410    0, 859         16      loT       040       04       500      764         -      156       156       14       365      300         96       393      491         5        19        04       62         0        82       51         0        51    1,055    3,136    4,9911
Ow 00S:                      ~~~~      ~~~~    ~~~300  314  435  4   36        40       02       053      120         -       35        35       07        66       05         22        87      14           1        4         5       00                  10       11                   0      40         0       ,0
Pci cc e oar 0 r gooc Ira~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                        4 51   01                                                           1   1   711
Or TOte                               5,097   2,344   7,440          031      403      533       555   1,710    2,264                    0         0      5 20      910    1,431       6 90    1,000    1,920         34        55I       93    0,100         0    1,122       166         0       166   0,342    6,6440   14,900
Ac us$:                               1,053      521    1,453         09       89       119      123      300       543         -        0         0      116       20'2     316       1 53       2072     427         6        13        21      249         0       249       41         0        41    1.654    1,400    3,330
016A  TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
i00710,:                            21,024   10,8604   30,669        329   2,165    0,513    0 ,3)5   0,04  100,659                  3 3,7308   3,7306    2.124    7,0     9,445    0~,0  40    9,406   10239~       104       460      594    2,640          0   5,646    1,0540   1,054   51,049II   40,09    01,761
to 001:    o,470    3,000    3,640         03      505       559       300    2,340    2,301         -      735       735      600    0,407    0,0992 61 35    04 42,10620,720436 10022132363320 2                                          333209 0300997,0628201,000700,049



I



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC IV
Unit Capital Cost and Areas per Student Place -
at mid-1981 prices
Type of Facility                      Gross area           Buildings &    Furniture    Equipment       Total
per student 2/      site works
m2             ------------------- US$ ------------------------
University of Sanaa
Faculty of Engineering                      22.9               I7,600          1,500          5,100       24,200
Academic and Communal
Student boarding facilities for                                                                                         J
PTTIs & VTCs                                 8.3                4,000           -                          4,000
1/   excluding contingencies
2/   including circulation and walling
F4 M
D X
U, i



-'a.
Anne 5
Table 3
YDEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance Resnirements
Fellowships
Others
Experts                                                                              and
Project Item and Type of                    Total      Beginning  M.Scs.    Total       Beginning  Ph.D.    Total        Beginning  Study      Total      Beginning
Technical Assistance Required        Mos.  Man-Months    Date         Nos.   Man-Months    Date       Nos.   Man-Months    Date        Visits  Man-Months    Date
I. Educational Research and
Development Center (ERDC)
Enrollment dynanics                     1       2.5        02/82
Teacher supply and retention            1       3.0        08/82
Curriculuo development--PTTI            1       2.0        10/82
Curriculum development--VTC/TSS/ASd  1          3.0        10/82
Educational facilities inventory        1       5.0        06/82
Educational planning and
financial research                    1        4.0        03/82       1          :0        06/82      1          30         06/83       1           6         06/83
Educational statistics                  1       4.0        03/82                                                                         1          12         07/82
Curriculum and educational
techniques                            1        6.0        01/83       2         60         06/82      1          30         06183       1           6         06/83
Documentatian and
publicat ions                         1        2.0        01/83                                                                         1          12         07/82
School administration                   1       2.0        01/83       1          30        06/83                                        1           6         06/83
PsychologicalJ
social research                       1        2.0        01/84       1         30         06/82      1          30         06/83       1          12         01/84
Teacher training                        1       2.0        01/84       1          30        06/83      1          30         06/83
Technical education                     1       4.0        01/84       1          30        06/83
Non-formal education                    1       3.0        01/85                                                                         1           6         01/83
Higher education                        1       2.0        01/85       1          30        06/84      1          30         06/84
47 .0
ERDC Xanagement  -                      1      24.0        01/82                                                                         2           4         01/83
Total                               17 1/   71.0                     8        240                    5         150                    10          76
II. Faculty of Engineering
Civil engineering                       1      24.0        03/82       3          90        09/82       1         30         09/82
1      20.0        03/82
2      18.0        06/83
Mechanical engineering                  1      15.0        01/83       3          90         09/82
1       9.0        06/83
81ectrical/electronic
engi-eering                            1      15.0        01/83       3          90        09/82
1      09.0        06/83
8     110.0
Equipnent and equipment
layouts                               1       12.0        07/82
9     122.0                    9         270                    1         30
III. Proect Inplementation
Unit PIU)
Director                                1      30.0        01/83
Architects                              3      36.0        01/83
Engineers                               2      24.0        01/83
Precur-ent                              1      24.0        01/83
Accountant                              1      30.0        01/83
Auditor                                 1       6.0        02/83
Secretary bilisgual                     1      24.0        01/83
IV.  Consultant Architects              -       -          09/82
I/ Some of these will be on repeat assignments.



YEMgN A8A_ REFUBLIC
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
Fourth Education Project
B.liding         Furniture       _ uipennt        Prof.  -ervices      Feiloushipe        goperts         Consultants    Salary Support   Special Studies        Total ProJect Cost
Local  FlLEign   Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign   Local   Forign  Local   Frreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Total
Contingencies (as Z of project coot)
Unforeseen                              10.0      10.0   10.0      10.0   10.0       10.0    5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0    5.0        5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0      0.0      5.0      0.0
Price E.cal.tios                        32.0      15.1   66.0       22.6   66.0      22.6    0.0       0.0    32.5       14.2   33.8       14.8    33.8    14.8       65.0      0.0    17.4       0.0
Project Cost (without conti.gencino)
Millions yr                             14.48     14.11   0.18      1.62   0.76       6.88     -       3.15     1.53      6.11    1.97      7.86     0.09    0.38      1.64     0.0      1.02     0.0     21.67    40.11    61.78
lillions USS                             3.22      3.13   0.04      0.36    0.17      1.53    -        0.70     0.34      1.36    0.44      1.75     0.02    0.08      0.36     0.0      0.23     0.0      4.82     8.91    13.73
: Foreign Exchange                                  49.4             90.0              90.0            100.0                80.0    -        80.0      -       80.0      -        0.0      -       0.0               64.9
Contingenciea (a--oonto)
Unforesees
Milli.on YR                           1.45      1.41    0.02     0.16    0.07      0.69     -       0.16     0.08       0.30   0.10       0.39    0.01    0.02      0.08     0.0      0.05     0.0       1.86     3.13     4.99
Millions USS                          0.32      0.32    0.0       0.04    0.02     0.15     -       0.03     0.02       0.07   0.02       0.09    0.0     0.00      0.02     0.0      0.01     0.0       0.41     0.70     1.11
Price E-calation
'jllions YR                          5.10      2.35   0.13    0440    0.56        1.71     -       0.0      0.52       0.91   0.69       1.22    0.03    0.06      1.12     0.0      0.19     0.0       8.34     6.65    14.99  I
Millions USS                          1.13      0.52    0.03    0.09     0.12      0.38     -       0.0      0.11       0.20   0.16       0.27    0.01    0.02      0.25     0.0      0.04     0.0       1.85     1.48     3.3  4D
Subtotal
Millions YR                           6.55      3.76   0.15      0.56    0.63      2.40    -        0.16     0.60       1.21   0.79 .    1.61    0.04    0.08       1.20     0.0-    0.24      0.0      10.20     9.78    19.98
Millioon US$                          1.45      0 84   0.03     0.13     0.14      0.53     -       0.03     0.13       0.27   0.18       0.36    0.01    0.02      0.27     0.0      0.05     0.0       2.26     2.18     6.44
S Foreign Eschang,                           -        36.5     -      79.2       -       79.2      -     100.0                67.1    -         67.0      -     67.0        -                 - _.0             -      49.0        -
TOML PROJECT COST (WITE CONTINGENCIES):
Millions YR                          21.03     17.87    0.33     2.18     1.39     9.28     -       3.31     2.13       7.32   2.76       9.47    0.13    0.46      2.84     0.0      1.26     0.0      31.87    49.89    81.76
4illions US$                          4.67      3.97    0.07     0.49    0.31      2.06     -       0.73     0.47       1.63   0.62       2.11    0.03    0.10      0.63     0.0      0.28     0.0       7.08    11.09    118.17
S Poreign E.change                            -       45.9      .      86.9      -        86.9     -     100.0       _        77.5              17,4      _     77.4       _                 _.0  -             _       61.0
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                                                      As 7, of project cost without conting.ncies: 32.3
Rate of etchange: 1 US0$  4.500 YR
1/ Price escalation computed on asis of:
(a) aeparate annual increase rates for local and foreign exchange costs;
(b) price n.csiacion for local coscs are based on recent trends in materials and labor costs and nn governuent estimtas of futer*
price incresoes as discunoed with the appraisal mission;
(c) project cunpletion 5.5 year from Credit signing; and
(d) estihted progress of work per year and corresponding price increase rate:
1982     1983-1985    1986-1987
L       F   L        F   L        F
Civil works         '           17.0S  8.5z  15.0  7.5X  12.0X 6.01
F!urniture and equipeem         21.01 10.02   19.0Z 8,0X 15.05 7.0S                                                                               x
Technical Assi.tanc             17.01   8.0X  15,02 7.01 12.0I 6.ax 01



--50-
Annex 6
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC IV
SUMMARY OF FACULTY OF ENGINEERING COST BY COMPONENT
YRJ-Millions                 US$ Millions
Local    F'oreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
Construction, Furniture
and Equipment                25.92     55.66      81.58     5.76      12.37     18.13
Technical Assistance
Fellowships, Architectural
& Specialist Services         5.43     27.12      32.55     1.20       6.03      7.23
Baseline Cost                  31.35     82.78    114.13      6.96      18.40     25.36
Contingencies
Physical unforeseen             2.86      6.92       9.78     0.63       1.54      2.17
Price increase                 25.06     25.55      50.61     5.57       5.68     11.25
Subtotal                       27.92     32.47      60.39     6.20       7.22     13.42
Total Cost of Faculty
of Engineering               59.27    115.25    174.52    13.16       25.62     38.78



-51-
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC IV                     A       6
FACULTY OF ENGINEERING                     Table 2
FINANCING PLAN
Other External
Government            IDA-IV              Financing         TOTAL
% of                 % of                 % of
US$     Financ-      US$     Financ-      US$      Financ-    US$
Million      ing     Million      ing     Million      ing    Million
Civil Works             5.26      40.0       1.26       9.5        6.64      50.5      13.16
Furniture &
Equipment             0.50     10.1        1.26      25.3        3.21      64.6       4.97
Technieal Assistance
Professional Services  -        -          0.70      58.3        0.50k'    41.7       1.20
Experts/Consultants  0.68       20.0       0.85      25.0        1.87      55.0       3.40
Fellowships           0.52      20.1       0.51      19.4        1.60      60.5       2.63
Baseline Cost           6.96      27.5       4.58      18.1       13.82      54.4      25.36
Contingencies
Physical              0.63      29.4       0.36      16.5        1.18      54.1       2.17
Price increase        5.57      49.5       0.73       6.5        4.95      44.0      11.25
Sub-Total             6.20      46.2       1.09       8.1        6.13      45.7      13.42
Total Faculty of
Engineering          13.16      34.0       5.67      14.6       19.95      51.4      38.78
1/  This amount represents amount of costs of architectural services that is
covered under the technical assistance category of the Third Education
Project.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1981              1982               1983               1984               1985               1986              1987
1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
Educational Development Center
Design and Construction
Preliminary Design                          _
Design Development Drawings
Construction Drawings                                 +  _
Bid Documents 
Bidding (IC)T
Construction                                                             -        -        -       
Guarantee Period
Furniture and Equipment
L,
Preliminary List
Final List and Specifications
Bid Documents
Bidding
Manufacturing, Delivery and Installation
Guarantee Period
Technical Assistance
Specialists
Fellowships
Special Programs
Enrollmnent Dynarnicsla)
Teacher Supply and Retention(b)|
Curricula Review and Revision (c)
Educational Facilities Inventory (d)                |
Negotiations                                                                                                  Clqsing Date
* Indicates IDA Review/Approval
02
World Bank-23185            rt



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1981              1982               1983               1984               1985               1986               1987
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                  1                                                                      11
MINSTR  O  EDCATON      1   2   3   4   1   2    3 4    1   23  4               1   23   4         1   2   3   4  1    2  3    4   1   2   3  4
Teacher Salary Supplement Fund           _ T    -                    _ _ _                 -  _  - _                  -    -
Project Implementation Unit                                                - _   _   _   _             -         -
Student Boarding Facilities
Design and Construction:
Design Development Drawings
Construction Drawings
Bid Documents
Bidding (Local)                                                                                           I *
Construction                                   I        -      ~       n     r                              
Guarantee Period
Negotiations                                                                                                   Closing Date        j 
*Indicates IDA Review/Approval                                                                                                                                              r[X
World Bank-23186



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1981               1982               1983               1984                1985                1986               1987
UNIVERSITY OF SNA'A                -- -
1  2 3  4 1  2 13  4  1 2  34 1   2  3  4 1  2 3  4 1  23  4 1   23 4
Faculty of Engineering
Civil Engineering Department
Design and Construction
Consultant Architects Selected
Campus Master Plan
Preliminary Design
Design Development Drawings
Construction DrawingsWA
Bid Documents
Bidding (ICB) 
Construction                                                                   -   -               -    -   -   -         wm d A                                                           4 -
Guarantee Period
Furniture and Equipment
Preliminary List
Final List and SpecificationsNA                                                       WWN    A
Bid Documents                                                                      OA'W
Bidding (ICB)                                                                                           w   Vd             __I
Manufacturing Delivery and Installation                                                                               -PIA               Wr       WA  AVA WA
Guarantee Period
Technical Assistance
Specialists                                             I        - - -              -V    "                        d  -             A~WA WAN AW
Fellowships                                                 -                       i     i        - W  11               j'VWA f=        ~
. Indicates IDA Review/Approval              Negotiations                                                                                                      Closing Date
~Civil Engineering Department
inAor  Faculty of Engineeringfi
World Bank-23187             ft 



-55-                           ANNEX 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EDUCATION IV
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ Millions)
Calendar   Fiscal Year                     Accumulated       Undisbursed
Date     and Semester  Disbursement   Disbursements          Balance
Amount    %     Amount     %      Amount   %
~~~1982
1st
1/1 - 1982 ---
2nd        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        12.0   100.0
1983                                __-___________________----__- 
1st        0.3     2.5      0.3     2.5        11.7    97.5
1/1 - 1983
2nd        1.0     8.3      1.3    10.8        10.7    89.2
1984            --               --___._-- _______________________
1st        2.2    18.3      3.5    29.1         8.5    70.9
1/1 - 1984
2nd        2.7    22.5      6.2    51.6         5.8    48.4
1985
1st        2.4    20.0      8.6    71.6         3.4    28.4
1/1 - 1985
2nd        1.8    15.0     10.4    86.6         1.6    13.4
1986
1st        0.7     5.8     11.1    92.4         0.9     7.6
1/1 - 1986
r
2nd        0.4     3.3     11.5    95.7         0.5     4.3
1987  -- -- - -- - - -- -  -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -
1st        0.3     2.5     11.8    98.2         0.2     1.8
1/1 - 1987
2nd        0.1     0.9     11.9    99.1         0.1     0.9
1988
1st        0.1     0.9     12.0   100.0         0.0     0.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1987



-56-
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC IV
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE EN PROJECT FILE
A.  General Reports and Studies Relating toEducation
1. First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81), YAR, Vole. I-vII,
Central Planning Organization, Sana'a, June 1977.
2. Education Development Plan (1976/77-1980/81), YAR, Ministry of
Education, February 1977.
3. Education in Yemen Arab Repulblic--Problems and Perspectives, Plans
and Projects, Baritsch/Taylor, Unesco3 Sana'a, June 1977.
4. Educational Statistics, 1975/76-1979/80, YAR, Ministry of
Education, June 1980.
5. University of Sana'a Statistics, 1975/76-1979/80, YAR, University
of Sana'a, May 1980.
6. Report of the Vocational Education Council on the Training of
Instructors for Vocational/Technical Education, YAR, Ministry of
Education, October 1980.
7. Project Proposal by the Ministry of Health for an IDA-Assisted
Health Project in YAR and Parts I, II and III, Sana'a, March 1981.
8. Report on Manpower and Training in the Yemen General Electricity
Corporation, British Electricity International, March 1980.
9. Proposals on the Preparation of YAR's Educational Five-Year Plan
(1982-86), Ministry of Education, March 1981.
10. Planning Sana'a University, Baynon/Herman, Unesco, May/June 1977.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Manpower Development in the Yemen Arab Republic, IDA Report No.
3181-YAR, October 1980.
2. Study on the Establishment of' a Center for Educational Research,
Working Paper, Mr. P. Saif, Unesco Consultant, Sana'a, March 1980.
3. Report of the Working Committee for the Establishment of a Center
for Educational Research and Development, YAR, Ministry of
Education, November 1980-March 1981.
4. Project Report for the Inservice Training of Teachers and
Educational Leaders in YAR, Unicef, Sana'a, November 1979.



-57-
6. Proposal for the Establishment of a Faculty of Technology at the
University of Sana'a, Unesco Team Report
(Goodyear/Sawata/Sarofim), December 1979.
7. Economic Feasibility Study for the Faculty of Engineering Project,
Dr. Abdel Aziz Sakhaf, Department of Economics, University of
Sana'a, March 1980.
C. Selected Working Papers of the Project
1. Educational Research and Development Center, Details of Priority
Work Programs, Terms of Reference of Studies and Consultants.
2. Educational Research and Development Center.
3. Boarding Facililties in PTTIs and VTCs, Site Plans and Preliminary
Designs.
4. Salary Supplement Fund for Yemeni Teachers at the Primary Teacher
Training Institutes.
5. Faculty of Engineering--Educational and Architectural Working
Papers.
6. Faculty of Engineering--Site Plan and Preliminary Layouts.
7. Faculty of Engineering--Manpower Justification and Costs.
r



I
I
I



IBRD 16013
in.N2t$  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~SEPTEMBER IN'i
-2D .0 '    .  ,_,,  IRAN    rl  3     S A  U  D  I    A  R A  B  I A
7                           O 5uDA;!H9^'er o'tV'   t,   FHAHUAN                                       YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SD.    S iL  gr/  \__NAJEAN
T.OrnuEciO ! ,-*,,        ;          '        \                 /                                                     Student Boad,ing FocatO
0C          <~sr Ci Ir Dnr;\ vEneerng Department
.iHOPO    t ,Muin              S              I                                                                     Educational Reseorch aid Develop,ent Centers
no        ,.o-       noF      _    8SAMARA                                                                                Pound Pri,miy Rurds
- | -t      \ - bSPimary RoAos Under Consttctiron
JtZAN,\                                               SAADAH___Other Roads
S BAADAH~                                                                          AI,p.,ts
\bS   (\   r  t\UvBANI                 r                     0    Citnes,To,ns aid VIIoges
I-WAiR                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Natronoi Capitan
r                                                     f ,g     r \                                        BERAT |-                            Main Wradis
-Pro,rcial Sa,ndat nn
rv   >   t  f  HARAD   O                                                           -   Intern-,ionl Bcundorioe
,,, N N          MAiD$t                                                                                                                        $ SHdAIDRA  S HI2AOR
'   0   12  HAJJ A   9                             ,  -    t<'<          1           0      20     B0      sO     to     100
,0 WhXA>G; \ j-'_4 NAiA OAV                                                                                                   4 ;            ap  no
LUHAdtSCRYH &AA
HAdJJE7t.............. '
A   HUSH ~ ~   ~      ~    ~     -   BNSSA\ /- 
' L                                             r --                                         MAR  B
NW3  /?4   ALJ     R-0'                                                          
ETHIOPIA '''                                                       )                                                    P
NN ~    ~ ~ N
/                                      Nl                                           GUL   OF  AVE/VWAy                F YE  
/r          DJIBOUTISFRU   ,M2SRADH
HODEIDAH                  utt                                         BAURA RMLI
[      /  \'v/'                    '\A                                             GVZf  Of  ADf/si-A 
/   D  J  I B O  U  T I       >~~L J                                                                          D 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io //                                               INA
|~~~~                                      ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P  E0                                          Ld  E' 



