F-0WCIAL
DOCUMENTS    CREDIT NUMBER 1203 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        5   ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1203 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4"   _*4_D   S   , 1982, between YEMEN
ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Unit" means the project implementation unit
established pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of the Development
Credit Agreement (Education Project) dated July 19, 1973 between
the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   "Salary Supplement Fund" means the fund to be estab-
lished by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement
for the purpose of supplementing the salaries of Yemeni teacher
trainers;
(c) "Training Institutes" means the Primary Teacher Training
Institutes of the Borrower;
(d) "Training Centers" means the Vocational Training Centers
of the Borrower;
(e)  "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
and
(f)   "University" means the University of Sana'a, Sana'a.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lenad to thE Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1992, and ending Jan-
uary 15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOE and the University with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause MOE to designate one of
its senior staff as the Project coordinator for Parts A, C and D
of the Project, and (ii) cause the University to designate one of
its senior staff as the Project coordinator for Part B of the
Project.
(c) Said Project coordinators shall, under the general
supervision of the Minister of Education, be assigned the respon-
sibility for their respective Parts of the Project for: (i)  the
recruitment of staff and the nomination of fellowship candidates,
(ii) the implementation of technical assistance programs, includ-
ing liaison with the Project Unit and consultant architects and
specialists, in the preparation of architectural designs and
procurement documents, (iii) the provision of all administrative
and supervisory assistance required for carrying out the res-
pective Parts of the Project, and (iv) the financial records
and the preparation and submission, with the assistance of the
Project Unit, of all documents required for withdrawing the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of providing salary supplements
to teacher trainers assigned to the Training Institutes, the
Borrower shall cause MOE to: (i) establish in a bank acceptable to
the Association a Salary Supplement Fund in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the operations of said
Fund.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts


﻿whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
in accordance with the principles and procedures described in
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that the selection criteria of
staff for training under the Project, and the duration and scope
of such training, shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and servicev financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 5 -
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Category (5) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retaiA, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors


﻿- 6 -
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested including, without limitation
to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other inform-
ation concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, commencing December 1983,
make available to the Association, annually, the data of total
enrollments, number of annual admissions, examination passing
rates and number of students residing in the hostels for each
of the Training Institutes and the Training Centers.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1982, establish in its Central Planning Organization a system to
monitor annually: (i) the number of government supported Yemeni
engineering degree students abroad by discipline and name of
country, and the expected date of their return; and (ii) the
number of new students proceeding abroad for engineering studies.
Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes that the Board of
Studies to be constituted for the Faculty of Engineering in the
University shall include representatives of at least two of the
following:
(i) Ministry of Public Works;
(ii) Central Planning Organization;
(iii) Yemen General Electricity Corporation; and
(iv) Tihama Development Authority.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1984, furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association,
an interim report in a form satisfactory to the Association, on
the establishment of the Faculty of Engineering referred to in


﻿- 7 -
Part B (i) of the Project, such report to include, inter alia, the
future requirements of foreign exchange resources to complete
all departments of said Faculty.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, before June 30, 1983, enter
into agreements satisfactory to the Association to ensure the
foreign exchange and local components of the financing of the
completion of departments at the Faculty of Engineering available
starting January 1, 1984; if by June 30, 1983, part or all of the
aforesaid funds of such financing shall not have been ensured
to the satisfaction of the Association, the Borrower shall in-
clude all funds needed for the completion of departments at the
Faculty of Engineering in its budgetary allocation starting
January 1, 1984.
Section 4.08. The Borrower undertakes to provide to the
Association, upon completion, the results of work programs refer-
red to in Part A (ii) of the Project, for review and comments by
the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaaing of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that legislation for the establishment of the
Educational Research and Development Center included in Part A of
the Project, granting it financial autonomy, has been issued and
published.
Section 5.02. The date               T          , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 1.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Education of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Education
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Ministry of Education
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-9-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By 1/                        U &  'Ca     .
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Byj/I
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-10-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Furniture, equip-             2,000,000       100% of foreign
ment and books                               expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
and 85% of
other local
expenditures
(2) Civil works                   3,090,000       50%
(3) Technical assistance          3,710,000       100% of foreign
and training                                 expenditures
(4) Work programs under             260,000       100%
Part A (ii) of the
Project
(5) Salary Supplement               520,000       100% of amounts
Fund                                         disbursed
(6) Unallocated                     620,000
TOTAL         10,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 11 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿- 12 -
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve educational planning and
programming, to train Yemeni engineers, to increase output of
Yemeni primary teachers and vocational skilled trainees, and to
retain teacher trainers. The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Educational Research and Development Center
(i) The construction and equipping of an Educational
Research and Development Center in Sana'a.
(ii) Provision of technical assistance to implement
the following work programs:
(A)   identification of the key factors contribu-
ting to the low educational efficiency of primary
education in each of the governorates; (B) iden-
tifying measures for accelerating the training,
recruitment and retention of Yemeni teachers
at all levels of the educational system; (C)
review and revision of the curricula of all teacher
training and vocational training institutions;
and (D) conducting an inventory and evaluation
of existing school facilities to reduce the
number of incomplete schools and under-utilized
schools, with a view to initiating a medium
term school location plan.
(iii) Provision of staff and fellowships for training
of staff of the Educational Research and Develop-
ment Center.
Part B:   Faculty of Engineering
(i) Provision of technical assistance for design-
ing the physical facilities (about 750 student
places) for the Faculty of Engineering at the
University.
(ii) The construction and equipping of the Depart-
ment of Civil Engineering of the Faculty of
Engineering of the University.


﻿- 14 -
(iii) Provision of teaching staff for the Department of
Civil Engineering referred to in Part B (ii) above
and fellowships for training faculty teachers.
Part C:   Boarding Facilities
Construction of about 430 student boarding places
at the Training Institutes at Ibb and Dhamar and at the
Training Centers at Taiz and Hodeidah.
Part D:   Project Unit
Provision of staff and equipment for the Project
Unit to. facilitate design and supervision of construction
of the Educational Research and Development Center under Part
A (i) of the Project and the student boarding facilities
under Part C of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, equipment shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more
each.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland


﻿- 16 -
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yemen Arab Republic if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Yemen Arab Republic
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 17 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Contracts for the construction of the boarding facili-
ties included in Part C of the Project may be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accurdance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Contracts for: (i) furniture and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 each or less, (ii) items which must
be compatible with equipment already in use, and (iii) consumable
materials for laboratories and offices, may be let following
normal procurement procedures of the Borrower which shall include
that the quotations shall be sought from at least three manu-
facturers or suppliers. Total procurement under the provisions of
this paragraph shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
(c) Books and printed instructional materials may be pur-
chased directly from the publishers or authorized distributors on
the basis of negotiated prices.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $50,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably


﻿- 18 -
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first app-..Lcation for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or
price quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or


﻿- 19 -
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Salary Supplement Fund
1.   Withdrawals from the Credit Account under Category (5)
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement shall be made as follows:
(a) The Borrower shall withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Salary Supplement Fund an initial
amount in the currency of the Borrower equivalent
to $50,000 after the Association has received informa-
tion on recruitment and selection procedures to hire
Yemeni teacher trainers for the Training Institutes,
including a list of trainers, eligible to receive salary
supplements amounting to about 20% of their basic
salary.
(b) Subsequent withdrawals shall be made twice a year
on application by the Borrower for reimbursement to
the Salary Supplement Fund of expenditures made up
to June 30 and December 31 each year supported by
certificates of expenditure and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1985, make
a mid-term evaluation to assess the effectiveness of the Salary
Supplement Fund in attracting teacher trainers into the Training
Institutes.
3.   The Borrower shall, by June 1984, take necessary steps
to incorporate progressively the expenditures related to the
Salary Supplement Fund in the recurrent budget of MOE commencing
with fiscal year 1985, leading to full budgeting of said expendi-
tures for fiscal year 1987 and thereafter.
4.   The Borrower shall, at the request of the Association, refund
to the Association any amount outstanding in the Salary Supplement
Fund and not required for the purposes of payment of salary
supplements.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 i.
FOR SECRETARY


