Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7244 - TUN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Information and Communication Technologies 
 Sector Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 2, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7244 - TUN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the “Project”), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“ANSI” means the Borrower’s national agency for electronic security 
(Agence
nationale
de
sécurité
informatique
)
or any successor thereto; 
 
(b) 
“ATI” means the Borrower’s national internet agency (Agence
Tunisienne
de
l’Internet
)
or any successor thereto; 
 
(c) 
“Category” means, individually, a category of items set forth in the table 
in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the term “Categories” means, 
collectively, more than one Category; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia
 (
Banque
Centrale
de
Tunisie
)
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 dated 
September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(e) 
“CNI” means the Borrower’s national computer center (Centre
national
de
l’informatique
)
or
any successor thereto; 
 
(f) 
“Coordinating Committee” means the Coordinating Committee for the 
Project within MCTT, referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Fiscal Year” means, individually, the twelve (12)-month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year, and the term “Fiscal Years” 
means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year; 
 
(i) 
“ICT” means information and communication technologies; 
 
(j) 
“INT” means the Borrower’s national telecommunications agency 
(“Instance
Nationale
des
Télécommunications
”) or any successor thereto;  
 
(k) 
“ISET’Com” means the Borrower’s training institute for higher studies 
in communications (Institut
Supérieur
des
Etudes
Technologiques
et
de
Communication
)
or any successor thereto; 
 
(l) 
“MCTT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Communication 
Technologies and Transport (Ministère
des
Technologies
de
la
Communication
et
du
Transport
)
or any successor thereto; 
 
(m) 
“Ministry of Culture, Youth and Leisure” means the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Culture, Youth and Leisure (Ministère
de
la
Culture,
de
la
Jeunesse
et
des
Loisirs
), or 
any successor thereto; 
 
(n) 
“Ministry of Justice and Human Rights” means the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Justice and Human Rights (Ministère
de
la
Justice
et
des
Droits
de
l’Homme
), or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(o) 
“Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity” means the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity (Ministère
des
Affaires
Sociales
et
de
la
Solidarité
), or any successor thereto; 
 
(p) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established by the 
Borrower within MCTT pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(q) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, included in 
the Project Implementation Plan, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of 
Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(r) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project implementation plan to 
be submitted by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
setting forth the procedures governing the administrative, procurement, disbursement, 
financial management, monitoring and evaluation and reporting arrangements for the 
Project; 
 
(s) 
“SERA” means the Borrower’s State Secretariat for Administrative 
Reform (Secrétariat
d’Etat
à
la
Réforme
Administrative
)
within the Prime Minister’s 
Office, or any successor thereto; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of, 
and Schedule 6 to, this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“SUP’Com” means the Borrower’s technical university for 
communications (Ecole
Supérieure
des
Communications
)
or any successor thereto; 
 
(v) 
“WSIS” means the World Summit on the Information Society; and 
 
(w) 
“WSIS Commission” means the Borrower’s National Commission for 
WSIS, or any successor thereto. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ten million 
eight hundred thousand Euros (EUR10,800,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Page  5
-
4
-
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euros a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one hundred eight thousand Euros (EUR108,000). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. Such fee shall be payable not later than 
60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty-five one hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the 
Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1  to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, economic, financial, and information and communication technology 
practices. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later 
than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure for the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in the preceding Section 4.01 and in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring 
Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower shall have established the PMU with adequate staffing and 
on the basis of experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, including a 
procurement specialist, a project management specialist and an ICT expert; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall have adopted the Project Implementation Plan, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Cable 
Address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MCCIIE  18060 
  216-71-351666 
216-71-799069 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
By 
/s/ Hatem Atallah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Christiaan Poortman 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the   
 
     % of  
 
Loan Allocated  
 
Expenditures 
Category
Expressed in Euros
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
3,900,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 90% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
5,200,000 
87% consultants  
domiciled within the 
territory of the  
Borrower and 79% for  
 
services of other  
 
consultants 
 
(3) Training, 
workshops 
and 
seminars 
700,000  100% 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
108,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
892,000 
 _________ 
TOTAL 10,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding EUR 500,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (1), (2) or (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
May 31, 2004. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) training, 
workshops and seminars, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in promoting the 
development of its ICT sector by: (a) supporting ICT institutional and sector reforms; 
(b) improving its e-security mechanisms; (c) developing e-government applications; and 
(d) promoting the participation of the private sector in the ICT sector.  
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
ICT Sector Strategy, Policy and Regulation
Carrying out a program of studies with a view to promoting competition and 
private sector participation in the ICT sector, through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and goods, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
the development of a long-term (2020) strategic plan for the development of the 
Borrower’s ICT sector; 
 
2. 
assistance in the preparation and award of telecommunication licenses; and 
 
3. 
support to INT in the regulation of the Borrower’s ICT sector: (a) by 
strengthening INT’s internal personnel, budget, procedures and organizational capacity, 
including the identification of training needs; (b) in the area of interconnection, tariff 
policy, cost accounting, numbering plan and analysis of the Borrower’s ICT market; and 
(c) in the preparation of comparative (“benchmarking”) analysis.  
 
Part B
:
E-government Strategy, Services and Applications
Carrying out a program of e-government services and applications, through the 
provision of technical assistance, training and goods, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
formulating an e-government strategy including: (a) the carrying out of a 
comparative (“benchmarking”) analysis for the development of e-government 
applications; (b) the carrying out of an assessment of planning and delivery of e-
government services; (c) the review of procedures and of the regulatory and institutional 
framework governing e-government services; (d) the preparation of an action plan to 
increase the offering, through the Internet, of e-government services; and (e) the 
evaluation of potential efficiency gains through the implementation of inter-departmental 
e-government processes; 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
2. developing 
e-
government applications in the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice and 
Human Rights, with a view to promoting access to justice, including: (a) the development 
of a portal and an intranet; (b) the establishment of a case law database; (c) the 
development of on-line services; (d) the provision of on-line access to said Ministry’s 
libraries; (e) the establishment of data protection mechanisms; and (f) training of said 
Ministry’s staff in the use of said applications; 
 
3. 
developing e-government applications in the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture, 
Youth and Leisure, with a view to promoting the Borrower’s cultural heritage, including: 
(a) the development of a portal; (b) the development of numeric and on-line products; and 
(c) the production and on-line dissemination of publications; 
 
4. 
support to the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity, with a view 
to promoting access by handicapped persons to ICT, including: (a) the establishment of 
specialized equipment in schools and pilot centers to facilitate access by handicapped 
persons to education programs; (b) establishment of specialized equipment in the 
Borrower’s social services agencies to facilitate access to on-line services; and (c) the 
equipment of a laboratory for training trainers in facilitating the use of ICT by 
handicapped persons; 
 
5. 
the establishment of a virtual ICT library within MCTT; 
 
6. 
support to ISET’Com in strengthening its training capacity in the ICT sector; and 
 
7. 
support to ATI in the development of a domain name system (DNS) in the Arabic 
language. 
 
Part C
:
E-security
Strengthening the Borrower’s e-security systems, through the provision of 
technical assistance, training and goods, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
assistance to ANSI in strengthening the Borrower’s computer risk prevention 
capacity, including: (a) the development of a strategy for computer risk prevention; 
(b) the establishment of computer  emergency prevention and response mechanisms; and 
(c) the carrying out of training activities in the area of information systems security; 
 
2. 
the development of an e-security research and training capacity within 
SUP’Com; and 
 
3. 
the carrying out of a risk assessment analysis, the design of an emergency plan 
and the establishment of a data back-up center within CNI to ensure continuity of the 
Borrower’s critical computer applications. 
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Part D
:
Project Management and Support to the Preparation of WSIS 2005 
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity in Project management and support to the 
Borrower in the preparation of WSIS 2005, through the provision of technical assistance, 
training and goods and the organization of workshops and seminars, including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
support to MCTT in developing and implementing a technological, strategic, 
economic and statistical monitoring and evaluation system with a view to measuring 
progress in the reform of the Borrower’s ICT sector; 
 
2. 
strengthening the PMU’s capacity in managing, monitoring and evaluating 
Project activities; 
 
3. 
support to MCTT and the WSIS Commission in the preparation of WSIS 2005, 
through the carrying out of studies, the organization of workshops and seminars related to 
the development of the ICT sector and the promotion of private sector participation in 
said sector; and 
 
4. 
support to the Borrower in the implementation of the Project, including, 
inter 
alia
,
the preparation of studies and the carrying out of training in relation to the 
Borrower’s ICT sector. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
Expressed as a %
July 15, 2009- July 15, 2020 
 
 
 
4.17%   
 
 
 
January 
15, 
2021     4.09% 
  
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
to the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule; 
 
(b) 
any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Limited International Bidding.  
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3. and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines and the following additional provisions:  
 
(i) 
Bids are advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation. 
 
(ii) 
The bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award 
criteria and bidder qualification criteria.
 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
(iii) 
Bidders are given adequate response time to prepare and submit 
bids (four (4) weeks minimum). 
 
(iv) 
Bids may be submitted, at the bidders option, in person or by 
courier service, and the disclosure of their identity on the outer 
envelope is not grounds for bid rejection. 
 
(v) 
Technical and financial bids are publicly and simultaneously 
opened. 
 
(vi) 
Bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed 
in the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms and 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest 
evaluated responsive bid. 
 
(vii) 
No eligible bidder is precluded from participation. 
 
(viii) 
No domestic preference is applicable to domestic bids. 
 
(ix) 
No foreign bidder is forced to submit a bid in association with 
domestic firms as a condition for bidding. 
 
(x) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
procurement must be submitted to, and found acceptable, by the 
Bank. 
 
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract   
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines and the 
Procurement Plan. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines and the Procurement Plan. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines pursuant to the provisions of the Procurement Plan. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines and the Procurement Plan. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines and the Procurement Plan. 
Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such 
contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to 
prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) the first two (2) 
contracts procured on the basis of Shopping and each contract for goods and services 
(other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more; 
and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000
 
or more. In addition, the record of justification referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program
 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this Agreement,  
for the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, the Implementation Program for 
the Project shall consist of the following provisions: 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Plan if, in the opinion of 
the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
Responsibility for general policy guidance and overall coordination of the 
carrying out of the Project shall be vested in the Coordinating Committee, chaired by the 
Minister of Communication Technologies and Transport or his representative, and 
including, 
inter alia
,
representatives of, respectively, the Bor
rower’s Ministries of 
Development and International Cooperation, Finance, Justice and Human Rights, Social 
Affairs and Solidarity, Culture, Youth and Leisure, SERA, ANSI, ATI, INT, ISET’Com, 
SUP’Com, CNI, WSIS Commission and the Project Coordinator. The Borrower shall 
maintain said Committee throughout the duration of the Project with membership and 
terms of reference at all times satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter, shall cause said 
Committee to meet at least on a semiannual basis to review progress in the carrying out 
of the Project. 
 
3. 
Responsibility for coordination, implementation and supervision of the Project 
shall be vested in MCTT. To this end, MCTT shall be assisted by the PMU, to be 
maintained by the Borrower throughout the duration of the Project with qualified staff in 
sufficient number at all times satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU shall be headed by a 
Project Coordinator and shall be responsible for the administrative, procurement, 
disbursement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation and reporting 
arrangements under the Project. To this end, the PMU shall coordinate with the relevant 
participating ministries and entities to the Project and provide, as needed, assistance to 
said ministries and entities.  
 
4. 
The PMU, through the Project Coordinator, shall be responsible for monitoring 
and evaluating progress in implementation of Project activities by each participating 
ministry and entity, on the basis of performance indicators agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank.  
 
5. 
No later than September 30, 2004, the Borrower shall recruit for the PMU a 
procurement specialist to review all procurement-related documentation under the 
Project, on the basis of experience, qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
6. 
No later than December 31 of each year, the Borrower, through the PMU, shall 
submit to the Bank an annual monitoring and evaluation report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the progress achieved in the implementation of 
Project activities and the program of activities for the subsequent 12-month period. 
 
7. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about June 30, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
The term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
EUR1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to EUR1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3), plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for the Project, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of EUR3,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
