Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: 52443 
Project Name 
Information and Communication Technologies Sector 
Development Project 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General information and communications sector (100%) 
Project ID
P088929
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA 
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Communication Technologies and Transport 
3, bis, rue d’Angleterre 
Tunisia 
1000 
Tel: 216-71 795 289 
Fax: 216-71 792 219 
Salem.Miladi@email.ati.tn
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C 
[ ] FI 
[ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 30, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 20, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
July 1, 2004 
1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
Since the late 1990s, the Government of Tunisia (GoT) has designated information and 
communication technologies (ICT) as a priority development sector. A central objective of the 
GoT’s 10
th
 Development Plan (2002-2006) is fostering the emergence of a knowledge-based 
economy. In support of this objective, the Plan gives priority to further developing the ICT 
sector and aims at increasing ICT revenues from 3.5 percent of GDP in 2001 to 7 percent by 
2006. Introduction of competition in mobile communications in 2002 has already increased ICT 
revenues to over 5 percent of GDP (2003), largely due to meeting pent-up demand. Achieving 
the objective of increasing ICT revenues to 7 percent of GDP is a very ambitious target. The 
Bank has advised the Government that even meeting a less ambitious objective would require 
reform of the ICT sector. The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tunisia also 
clearly identifies modernization of information infrastructure services through opening them to 
private investment a
s
a
priority to be supported by Bank operations. 
For the GoT’s ambitious goals to further develop the ICT sector, Tunisia must implement sector 
reforms and address key constraints. Some of the priority issues to be addressed are as follows: 
(a) introduce competition in major telecommunications market segments; (b) strengthen the 
regulatory framework to ensure fair and effective competition; (c) develop an e-agenda, 
including the effective delivery of e-government applications to citizens and enterprises; and (d) 
promote the diffusion of ICT in Tunisia. The GoT has already taken several key actions along 
these lines, such as awarding a second mobile license and a VSAT license, and has decided to 
issue a second data network and services license by the end of 2004. 
Page  2
The GoT’s interest in developing the ICT sector goes back several years. In 1998, the 
International Telecommunication Union’s plenipotentiary meeting in Minneapolis adopted 
Resolution 73 selecting Tunisia as the host of the second phase of the World Summit on the 
Information Society (WSIS) in November 2005. In 2001, the GoT prepared and issued a 
national ICT strategy, in partnership with the World Bank. In 2003, at the GoT’s request, the 
Bank finalized a study on private participation in infrastructure (PPI) that included a chapter on 
telecommunications and information technologies. 
The GoT has requested an operation from the Bank to support ICT sector reform in 
telecommunications and the e-agenda in preparation for the second phase of WSIS. The 
proposed project approach is consistent with the 2001 ICT Sector Strategy. This strategy calls for 
advancing sector reform by (a) broadening the focus across all ICT components (including the 
postal sector); (b) creating an enabling environment for e-commerce and e-government; (c) 
strengthening policy and regulatory institutions to implement sector reform; (d) promoting 
growth, efficiency, quality, and innovation through competition and private sector participation; 
and (e) promoting access to information infrastructure with a special focus on rural communities. 
The Bank has several comparative advantages to assist the GoT in this sector: 
·
The Bank brings the right mix of technical assistance and advice to help focus the GoT 
on priority issues and make the case for sector reform. The Bank has maintained an 
extensive ICT policy dialogue with the GoT for several years and is fully aware of the 
sector issues and main players. It also maintains a dialogue on telecommunications sector 
reform, e-government, and ICT development in about eighty countries all over the 
developing world, including the MENA region (Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, 
Morocco, Saudi Arabia, and Tunisia). The Bank is thus well equipped to inform the GoT 
about sector best practices and discuss the benefits of different approaches to sector 
reform in the Tunisian context. 
·
The Bank has implemented scores of telecommunications projects and has proven 
expertise as well as a large pool of specialized skills in designing effective policies for 
helping countries make the transition to an information-based economy. 
·
The Bank can identify international global best practices relevant to the developing world 
in new areas such as e-applications and e-government. 
·
The Bank is well placed to play a leadership role among donor agencies in this broad and 
complex area, helping to prevent overlaps and conflicts. 
2. Objectives 
The project development objective is to assist the Borrower in promoting the development of its 
ICT sector by (a) supporting ICT institutional and sector reforms; (b) improving its e-security 
mechanisms; (c) developing e-government applications; and (d) promoting the participation of 
the private sector in ICT development. 
The project is expected to (a) develop a long-term strategic plan for ICT sector development, 
with increased private sector participation and competition; (b) strengthen the capacity of sector 
institutions; (c) develop the government’s e-agenda as well as simplify procedures and achieve 
Page  3
efficiency gains in the delivery of selected government services to private businesses and the 
population at large; (d) develop competencies and expertise for e-security, and improve 
preparedness in case of cyber-attacks or disaster; and (e) assist the GoT in the monitoring and 
implementation of key sector improvements before the World Summit on the Information 
Society in Tunis in November 2005. 
3. Project Description 
The project includes the following four components, addressing each of the project objectives set 
forth above:
 
1)  Information and Communications Strategy, Policy, and Regulation
.
This 
component will assist the GoT on further opening of the ICT sector to private 
participation and competition. In particular, the project will support (a) elaboration 
of a strategic long-term plan for developing the ICT sector, including a strategy for 
promotion of universal access; (b) assistance for the award of additional licenses; and 
(c) assistance to the Instance Nationale de Télécommunications, the 
telecommunications regulatory authority. 
2)  E-government Strategy, Services, and Applications.
 The project will support (a) 
formulating an e-government benchmarking and strategy, which is being coordinated 
by the State Secretariat for Administrative Reform (
Secrétariat d’Etat à la Réforme 
Administrative
 
–
SERA); (b) developing e-government applications and online 
services in GoT ministries and agencies, such as the Ministry of Justice and Human 
Rights (portal and on-line services), the Ministry of Culture, Youth, and Leisure 
(portal and on-line promotion), and the Ministry of Communication Technologies and 
Transport (virtual ICT library); (c) providing solutions to equip selected schools and 
social service centers with specialized IT solutions for the disabled, under the 
direction of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity; (d) assisting the Tunisian 
Internet Agency in the development of an Arabic Domain Name System (DNS) 
registry; and (e) increasing the ICT training capacity of ISET'Com (the Institute for 
Higher Studies in Communications Technologies of Tunis) by providing a distance- 
learning platform and content for building ICT capacity in Tunisia. 
3) E-Security
:
The project will (a) develop and implement a computer risk-prevention 
strategy based on the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) model; (b) 
strengthen e-security research and training capacity; and (c) establish a data backup 
center to ensure continuity of government’s critical computer applications. 
4)  Project Management and Support to the Preparation of WSIS 2005. 
This 
component will provide technical assistance to the GoT to implement a complex and 
fast-paced project, with emphasis on results by WSIS in 2005. It will include (a) 
Technical Assistance to strengthen the Project Management Unit (PMU); (b) 
supporting an ICT statistical and economic analysis unit within the Ministry of 
Communication Technologies and Transport (MCTT) to develop and implement 
monitoring and evaluation activities, measure progress in the sector, publish a regular 
Page  4
monitoring and evaluation report, and provide input to policy-makers; and (c) 
preparatory activities for the World Summit on the Information Society in 2005. 
The project activities will include (a) technical assistance; (b) procurement of goods, IT 
equipment, and services; and (c) training. 
Given that the main implementing agency, the Ministry of Communication Technologies and 
Transport, already has considerable experience in implementing World Bank projects, all project 
activities will be managed from the existing Project Management Unit for the ongoing Transport 
Sector II Project, duly reinforced to manage this project. This will enable the Information and 
Communication Technologies Sector Development Project to capitalize on existing capacity. 
The total cost of the project is US$15.37 million equivalent, of which the Bank loan would 
provide US$13.13 million equivalent. No cofinancing arrangements are anticipated. 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
NA. 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 2.24 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
In June 2009, the Borrower requested a cancellation of 
funds of an amount of EUR 2.7 million. The new amount of 
the loan became US$ 11.8 million 
 
BORROWER 2.24 
IBRD  11.8 
 
Total: 14.04 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Carlo Maria Rossotto 
Title: Regulatory Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-7354 Fax: (202) 
522-3001 
Email: 
Crossotto@worldbank.org
13.13 
Total 15.37 
Page  5
