Page  1
 
 
TUNISIA INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS PROJECT 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB864 
Project Name 
Tunisia Information and Communications Project 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General information and communications sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P088929 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Communication Technologies and Transport 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 20, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 17, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 20, 2004 
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Since the late 1990s, the Government of Tunisia (GoT) has designated information and 
communication technologies (ICT) as a priority development sector.  Most recently, in its 10
th
 
Development Plan (2002-2006) it highlighted as one of its key objectives fostering the 
emergence of a knowledge-based economy.  As one of the main underpinnings of this goal, it has 
given high priority to the further development of the ICT sector, in order to increase ICT 
revenues as a percentage of GDP from 3.5% in 2001 to 7% by 2006.  Introduction of competition 
in mobile communications in 2002 has already increased ICT revenues to over 5% of GDP 
(2003), largely due to meeting pent-up demand.  Achieving the objective of increasing ICT 
revenues to 7% of GDP is a very ambitious target. The Bank has advised the Government that 
even meeting a less ambitious objective would require reform of the ICT sector. The current 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) under preparation also clearly identifies modernization of 
information infrastructure services through opening them to private investment as one of the key 
priorities to be supported by Bank operations. 
 
For the GoT’s ambitious goals to further develop the ICT sector, Tunisia must implement sector 
reforms and address key constraints.  Some of the priority issues to be addressed are as follows:  
(a) introduce competition in major telecommunications market segments; (b) strengthen the 
regulatory framework to ensure fair and effective competition; (c) develop an e-agenda, 
including the effective delivery of e-government applications to citizens and enterprises; and (d) 
promote the diffusion of ICT in Tunisia.  The GoT has already taken several key actions along 
these lines, such as awarding a second mobile license and a VSAT license, and has decided to 
issue a second data network and services license by the end of 2004. 
 
The GoT’s interest in developing the ICT sector goes back several years.  In 1998, the ITU’s 
plenipotentiary meeting in Minneapolis adopted Resolution 73 selecting Tunisia as the host of 
Page  2
 
 
the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in November 2005.  
In 2001, the GoT prepared and issued a national ICT strategy, in partnership with the World 
Bank.  In 2003, at the GoT’s request, the Bank finalized a study on private participation in 
infrastructure (PPI) that included a chapter on telecommunications and information technologies.   
 
The GoT has requested an operation from the Bank to support ICT sector reform in 
telecommunications and the e-agenda in preparation for the second phase of WSIS.   
The Bank can play a unique role steering the GoT’s efforts towards achieving the reform 
objectives : 
 
• 
Sector reforms underway to date are not aggressive enough to meet the GoT’s ambitious 
targets.  Instead, GoT has maintained a gradual approach to policy reform.  The Bank can 
bring the right mix of technical assistance and advice to help focus the Government on 
priority issues and to make the case for accelerating reform. Once the Government commits 
to a reform program, it has good and proven internal mobilization and implementation 
capacity.  
• 
Given the extensive policy dialogue that the Bank has conducted with the GoT over the past 
several years, the Bank is fully aware of the sector issues and knows the context and main 
players in Tunisia. This will help in fast-track processing of the proposed project and 
increase the impact of the operation. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The project’s development objectives would be to: (i) improve the performance of the ICT sector 
through fostering institutional reforms in telecommunications and electronic services (e-agenda), 
and (ii) accelerate the utilization of ICT through development and promotion of applications.  
The project would also contribute to the development of a more open policy and regulatory 
regime which is critical to the evolving multi-operator environment.   
 
On the institutional side, the project is expected to: (i) strengthen GoT’s ability to regulate the 
ICT industry and enable private sector participation, (ii) strengthen the security of critical 
databases and information systems against system failures and preserve them in cases of disaster, 
and (iii) simplify procedures and achieve efficiency gains in the delivery of selected government 
services to citizens.  Realistic targets and performance indicators will be defined during project 
preparation. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The project would include the following four components: 
 
(a) 
Increasing private sector participation and competition in the ICT sector
:  
Studies and pilots supported by the project would guide the GoT on future opening 
of the ICT sector to private participation and competition.  In particular, the project 
would support:  (i) developing an ICT policy implementation plan, including 
analytical tools to assist the Government in the introduction of competition in 
several segments of the telecommunications market, (ii) developing a broadband 
Page  3
 
 
policy, (iii) implementing pilots using new technologies (e.g., broadband over 
power lines) to increase ICT access in rural areas through private participation, (iv) 
diffusing modern wireless access technologies (e.g. WiFi, WiMax, CDMA-450) 
through private sector provision, and (v) identifying and removing main bottlenecks 
to innovation and to marketing of new products for domestic and regional 
consumption.  
(b) 
Strengthening regulatory framework and capacity
:  Assistance to the Tunisian 
ICT regulatory agencies INT, ANF, and ATI through advisory services, training, 
and software tools to strengthen their capacity to address priority regulatory issues. 
These issues include: (i) interconnection, (ii) spectrum management, (iii) 
broadband, (iv) new technologies (especially broadband wireless access to the 
Internet), and (v) ICT development.  This component would also include a review 
of the regulatory framework, with recommendations for streamlining the 
institutional arrangements (to be discussed and agreed with GoT).  
(c) 
Developing an e-agenda
:  Assistance to the GoT to articulate an agenda for the 
development of electronic services in Tunisia. Specifically, the project would 
support: (i) formulating an e-government strategy and developing e-government 
applications in up to five ministries, (ii) developing an e-security program, 
including establishing a data backup center and technical assistance in the area of 
disaster management, and (iii) delivering technical training in the area of e-security. 
(d) 
Strengthening Capacity for Sector Policy and Project Implementation
: This 
component will assure effective implementation of the activities under the project. 
It will include: (i) assistance to the Government on communications activities 
related to the GoT ICT sector strategy, (ii) support to establish an economics and 
statistics unit for ICT within the Ministry of Communication Technologies and 
Transport, (iii) support to develop and track monitoring & evaluation (M&E) 
indicators and an ex-post development impact assessment methodology for the 
project, (iv) a general studies activity, and (v) funding for the Project Management 
Unit. 
 
An alternative project approach originally envisaged but subsequently rejected consisted in 
having a broader scope in the area of private sector development in the ICT sector. This 
approach would have included the financing of substantial civil works for the Al Ghazala 
technopole and the direct support to small and medium enterprises in the ICT sector. However, 
this would have added complexity to the project, reduced project focus, and added substantial 
delays.  
  
Given that the main implementing agency, the Ministry of Communication Technologies and 
Transport, already has considerable experience in implementing World Bank projects, all project 
activities will be managed from the existing Project Management Unit for the ongoing Transport 
Sector II Project, duly reinforced to manage this project. This will enable the Information and 
Communications Project to capitalize on existing capacity. 
 
The total cost of the project is currently estimated at US$25 million, of which the Bank loan 
would provide US$20 million.  No cofinancing arrangements are anticipated. 
 
Page  4
 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
NA. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 5 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
20 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Carlo Maria Rossotto 
Title: Regulatory Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-7354 
Fax: (202) 522-3001 
Email: Crossotto@worldbank.org
 
