                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: ICR00001815



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-72440)



                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 10.8 MILLION
                          (US$ 13.13 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                         FOR A

              INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES

                          SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                      June 14, 2011




Transport, Water and Information and Communication Technologies
Tunisia
Middle East and North Africa




                                          -i-
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective June 8th, 2011)

                    Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar
                         1.00 TND= US$ 0.74
                        US$ 1.00= TND 1.36

                         FISCAL YEAR 2011




                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

   ATCE    Agence Tunisienne de Communication Extérieure
           (Tunisian Agency for External Communication)
   ANSI    Agence Nationale de Sécurité Informatique
           (National Agency for Computer Security)
    ATI    Agence Tunisienne de l’Internet
            (Tunisian Internet Agency)
    CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
   CERT    Computer Emergency Response Team
    CNI    Centre National de l’Informatique
            (National Center of Computer Science)
    DPL    Development Policy Loan
     FDI   Foreign Direct Investment
    GDP    Gross Domestic Product
    GOT    Government of Tunisia
     ICT   Information Communication Technologies
     INS   Institut National de la Statistique
           (National Institute of Statistics)
    INT    Instance National des Télécommunications
            (National Telecommunications Agency)
ISET’Com   Institut Supérieur des Études Technologiques en Communication
            (Higher Institute for Technology Studies in Communications)
    ISP    Internet Service Provider
    IXP    Internet Exchange Point
   MCT     Ministry of Communication Technologies and Transport
  MENA     Middle East & North Africa
 MNAVP     Middle East North Africa Vice Presidency
   MTC     Ministère des Technologies de la Communication
           (Ministry of Communication Technologies)
   M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation
   PAD     Project Appraisal Document
   PDO     Project Development Objective
    PIU    Project Implementing Unit

                                  -i-
   PMU   Project Management Unit
  SERA   Secrétariat d’État à la Réforme administrative
SupCom   École Supérieure des Communications
         (Higher School in Communications)
TND      Tunisian Dinar




                    Vice President:   Shamshad Akhtar
                  Country Director:   Neil Simon Grey
                   Sector Manager:    Philippe Dongier
              Project Team Leader:    Carlo Maria Rossotto
                 ICR Team Leader:     Isabelle Huynh




                                 - ii -
                                                     Tunisia
                                         ICT Sector Development Project



                                                        CONTENTS

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 28
Annex 6. List of supporting documents ........................................................................ 38
Annex 7. Peformance indicators ................................................................................... 13
Annex 8. eApplications supported by the project and CERT ....................................... 13

MAP




                                                              - iii -
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The Government of Tunisia (GOT) has made information communication technologies
(ICT) a priority development sector since the late 1990s. In fact, a central objective of the 10th
Development Plan (2002-2006) was to foster the emergence of a knowledge-based economy in
Tunisia. In 2002, at the GOT’s request, the Bank worked in partnership with the Tunisian
authorities to complete a first ICT Policy Note with emphasis on the contribution of ICT to
growth and employment. The strategy advocated telecom competition and Internet liberalization
as drivers of sector development and broader economic growth. The Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Tunisia adopted in June 2004 identified private sector-led modernization of
information infrastructure services as a priority to be supported by Bank operations.

2.     The GOT had successfully undertaken several measures aimed at enhancing the diffusion
of ICT among enterprises and consumers. It implemented certain measures to reform the
telecommunications sector, including a new law that increased competition in mobile service and
allowed the introduction of satellite services. Telecommunications sector reform, however, was
slower than in comparable developing countries in MENA and in other regions. This has likely
constrained growth of information intensive sectors across the whole economy.

3.     Specific priority issues at the time of appraisal were: (a) developing the ICT potential of
the Tunisian private sector; (b) accelerating Internet and ICT use by firms and consumers; (c)
extending access to ICT in rural areas; (d) increasing competition and private participation in all
segments of the telecommunications market; (e) improving availability and reducing price of
broadband services; and (f) enhancing reliability and security of information and
communications networks.

4.      An additional factor at the time of appraisal was the intention of the GOT to seek Bank
assistance to develop e-government projects in specific areas, to have a demonstrated effect on
the rest of the government administrations, and to strengthen the security of the internet
infrastructure.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5.     The ICT Sector Development Project was designed to assist Tunisia in promoting the
development of its ICT sector by:

     (a)   supporting ICT institutional and sector reforms;
     (b)   improving its e-security mechanisms;
     (c)   developing e-government applications; and
     (d)   promoting the participation of the private sector in the ICT sector.

6.       The project was expected to:
     (a) develop a long-term strategic plan for ICT sector development, with increased private
         sector participation and competition;
                                                   -1-
   (b) strengthen the capacity of sector institutions;
   (c) develop the government’s e-agenda as well as simplify procedures and achieve efficiency
       gains in the delivery of selected government services to private businesses and the
       population at large;
   (d) develop competencies and expertise for e-security, and improve preparedness and
       resilience of the Internet in case of cyber-attacks or disaster; and
   (e) assist the GOT in the monitoring and implementation of key sector improvements before
       the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in Tunis in November 2005.

7.      The PDO and key performance indicators are summarized below; Annex 8 provides
detailed data for every year of project implementation.

     PDO:
    Increase in share of ICT Sector in the GDP from 6% in 2003 to 8.5% in 2008 (CAS
     Indicator)
     KPI:
    Awarding of new licenses in 2004-2005 in the VSAT and data transmission segments
    Number of fixed and mobile phone lines in % of the population reaches 60% in 2008 (up
     from 32% in 2003) (CAS indicator)
    Increase in share of private sector investment in ICT sector from 35.2% of total in 2003
     to 60% of total investment by 2008
    Implementation of 2 new e-government portals in November 2005 and two additional
     new e-government portals by 2008.
    Increase in requests by private sector and citizens submitted over these new e-
     government service sites – Methodology to calculate indicators and base value to be
     provided by Government prior to mid-term review
    Creation of computer emergency response team and organization of 3 trainings or CERT
     workshops before the end of 2005
    Creation of a data backup center for critical applications of the government applications,
     and testing by the end of 2005.
    Publication of economic and statistical analyses of Tunisian “e-agenda? successes
     achieved by WSIS

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

8.      The Ministry of Communication Technologies and Transport (MCT) was responsible for
the overall coordination, implementation and supervision of the project. The other main
beneficiaries and implementing agencies were the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Leisure; the
Ministry of Justice; the Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity; the Instance National des
Télécommunications (INT - National Telecommunications Agency), the Agence Tunisienne de
l’Internet (ATI - Tunisian Internet Agency), Centre National de l’Informatique (CNI - National
Center of Informatics), the Agence Nationale de Sécurité Informatique (ANSI - National Agency

                                             -2-
for Informatics Security), Secrétariat d’État à la Réforme administrative (SERA), the Institut
Supérieur des Études Technologiques en Communication (ISET’Com - Higher Institute for
Technology Studies in Communications), and the École Supérieure des Communications
(SupCom - Higher School in Communications).

9.      In addition to the public entities that benefitted directly from the project support, the
primary target group was the Tunisian population as a whole, comprising of households and
businesses. The population would benefit from the increased availability, affordability, and
quality of traditional and advanced telecommunication services as well as enhanced Internet
services and IT security. A secondary group of beneficiaries included the Tunisian population
with disabilities, in particular students.

1.5 Original Components

1) Information and Communications Strategy, Policy, and Regulation.

This component aimed at assisting the GOT on further opening the ICT sector to private
participation and competition. In particular, the project was to support:
    (a) The elaboration of a strategic long-term plan for developing the ICT sector, including a
        strategy for promotion of universal access;
    (b) The award of additional licenses; and
    (c) Capacity building for the INT.

2) E-government Strategy, Services, and Applications.

The component aimed to support:
   (a) The creation of an e-government strategy, which was to be coordinated by the State
       Secretariat for Administrative Reform (SERA);
   (b) The development of e-government applications and online services in GOT ministries and
       agencies, such as the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (portal and on-line services),
       the Ministry of Culture, Youth, and Leisure (portal and on-line promotion), and the
       Ministry of Communication Technologies and Transport (virtual ICT library).
   (c) The creation of solutions to equip selected schools and social service centers with
       specialized IT solutions for the disabled, under the direction of the Ministry of Social
       Affairs and Solidarity;
   (d) Assistance to the ATI in the development of an Arabic Domain Name System (DNS)
       registry; and
   (e) Improvements in the ICT training capacity of ISET’Com by providing a distance-learning
       platform and content for building ICT capacity in Tunisia.

3) E-Security.

The component aimed to:
   (a) Develop and implement a computer risk-prevention strategy based on the Computer
       Emergency Response Team (CERT) model;
   (b) Strengthen e-security research and training capacity; and


                                                -3-
       (c) Establish a data backup centre to ensure continuity of government’s critical computer
           applications.

4) Project Management and Support to the Preparation of WSIS 2005.

This component provided technical assistance to the GOT to implement a complex and fast-
paced project, with emphasis on results by WSIS in 2005. It included:
   (a) Technical assistance to strengthen the Project Management Unit (PMU);
   (b) Support to an ICT statistical and economic analysis unit within the MCT to develop and
       implement monitoring and evaluation activities, measure progress in the sector, publish a
       regular monitoring and evaluation report, and provide input to policy-makers; and
   (c) Preparatory activities for WSIS 2005.

1.6 Revised Components

10.     The project was restructured in December 2009. The Government’s request for project
restructuring involved: (i) cancellation of three activities replaced by three smaller activities in
line with Government’s priorities, and relying on agencies which had a solid track record with
regard to activity implementation (see 1.6); (ii) cancellation of part of the proceeds of the Loan;
and (iii) reallocation of the reduced amount of the Loan to disbursement categories.

11.     The project components remained unchanged, however Component 2 and 3 had activities
that were cancelled, and Component 1 and 2 had added activities (Table 1). The three canceled
activities, for which procurement and project implementation processes suffered significant
delay at the start, were the virtual library (procurement of equipment for an estimated cost of
$345,0001), the acquisition of a distance-learning platform (estimated cost of $1,150,000), and
the IT Security Lab for Research and Education (estimated cost of $460,000). The first two
canceled activities belonged to Component 2 of the project, and the third canceled activity
belonged to Component 3. As requested by the Borrower, they were replaced by a study on
Women and ICT in Tunisia (estimated cost of $100,000), and a study on outsourcing the ICT
needs of governmental and parastatals to the private sector (estimated cost of $480,000), which
were added to Component 1 of the project; and a pilot project on eDisabled (estimated cost of
$185,000), added to the Component 2.

Table 1: Activities cancelled and new activities
                                            Cancelled activity                New activity
Component 1 – ICT policy                                          Women in ICT in Tunisia
                                                                  ICT outsourcing
Component 2 – eGov                   Virtual library              eDisabled pilot
applications                         Distance learning platform
Component 3 – e-Security             IT security Lab




1
    Otherwise mentioned, $ refers to US dollars.


                                                       -4-
12.    These changes did not impact the PDO as the canceled activities had an indirect
contribution to it, and the new activities partially made up for this indirect contribution.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.     There were two changes made to the project: an extension in 2008, and a cancelation and
reallocation in end 2009.

14.    The project was extended in December 2008 by 18 months, pushing the closing date from
June 2009 to December 2010. This was the result of delays in project implementation, triggered
mainly by delays in procurement processes (specifically due to local procurement clearance
processes) and lengthy validation of the deliverables under the project.

15.     The Borrower requested a cancelation of EUR2.646 million of the loan amount2 and a
reallocation of the loan proceeds. The total cost of the project was brought from EUR10.8
million down to EUR8.1 million. The cancelation request was mostly driven by: a) cost-saving
efforts in project implementation,3 and b) the substitution of the three original activities with new
activities resulted in an approximate new savings exceeding $1 million equivalent. The
reallocation of the funds is shown in Table 2 below.

Table 2: 2009 reallocation (Euros)
    CATEGORY            ORIGINAL              PARTIAL             REQUESTED              2009 PROPOSED
                       ALLOCATION        CANCELLATION           CANCELLATION             REALLOCATION
                                                                             ND
                                         DONE ON JULY           AS OF JUNE 22 ,
                                           2ND, 2004                  2009
GOODS                    3,900,000         3,900,000                1,500,000                2,700,000
CONSULTANTS’             5,200,000         5,200,000                 944,000                 4,856,000
SERVICES
TRAINING,                 700,000             700,000                202,000                  490,000
WORKSHOPS AND
SEMINARS
FRONT-END FEE            108,000               54,000                   -                     54,000
UNALLOCATED              892,000              892,000                   0                        0
         TOTAL          10,800,000           10,746,000             2,646,000                8,100,000


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry



2
    Including a 2005 cancellation of EUR 54,000.

3
  During the life of the project, the cost of software and IT services expressed in US dollars decreased – the loan
being signed in euro, and the euro strengthened against the dollar during the project timeframe, i.e. e-Disabled
equipment was purchased for about USD 0.5 million, instead of the original budget of USD1.3 million


                                                         -5-
16.     The project approach was consistent with the World Bank Group’s strategy for the ICT
sector approved by the Board of Directors in September 2001 and was also well aligned with the
ICT Policy Note recently prepared by the GOT (see 1.1): the project supported directly 2 of the 7
main priority measures identified in the Policy Note (sector liberalization, regulatory framework
improvement) and 1 of the accompanying measure (eGov portals). The Bank had several
comparative advantages to assist the GOT in this sector, which included the Bank’s extensive
policy dialogue on telecommunications with the GOT and several other countries in the region:
the Bank had implemented several telecommunication projects and had proven expertise in
helping countries make the transition to an information-based economy; the Bank could offer
international global best practices; and, therefore, the Bank was well-placed to play a leadership
role among donor agencies.

17.      The background analysis described in Annex 1 to the PAD was comprehensive and sound.
It partly built on an ICT Policy Note that had been recently prepared by the Bank in close
cooperation with the Government. The ICT Policy Note was a major effort, and its preparation
lasted about 18 months; it was completed before the start of the project. The background analysis
pointed at three important aspects: (i) limited liberalization of the sector (including possible
delays in WTO commitments); (ii) Government’s commitment to continue reforming the sector
albeit at a slow pace; and (iii) an important gap between the telecommunication penetration
(fixed and mobile) which was relatively good, and the Internet penetration which was very low.

18.     Working documents and internal memos show that the Bank team and management had a
good understanding of the “freedom of Internet? issue in Tunisia. The team assessed this issue
and listed it as an explicit risk for the operation. The team involved the management and
MNAVP which had direct discussion on this issue with the counterparts.

19.     One of the engines that led to project preparation was the WSIS 2005 event hosted by
Tunisia. The Government needed to be ready to showcase the benefits of Internet to the world, at
a time when it was strictly enforcing a policy of access and content control. The Bank team and
the management assessed this risk adequately, as noted in the PAD (risks from outputs to
objective and from components to objectives were rated high, in particular due to Government’s
concern with security). The Bank team engaged with various segments of the Tunisians society
on a technical level, with a view to increasing Tunisia’s exposure to best international practice,
and building local capacity to encourage ICT entrepreneurship, while at the same time seeking
greater access to the Internet, and emphasizing its benefits in terms of social and economic
impact. The Bank team and the management (at VP level) used the project to deliver clear
messages with regard to the need for more freedom of information in the context of an
“information society? that can strive only with freedom of content and wider access. The Bank
had also gained credibility with the counterparts and with the broader private sector in Tunisia,
by canceling a USD50 million telecommunications tranche in the Tunisia ECAL III operation,
on the grounds that the process to award the license to Tunisiana was not sufficiently transparent.

Assessment of the project design:

20.   The objectives of the project were adequate to capture the effectiveness of the project.
The PDO (increase in share of ICT sector in GDP from 6% in 2003 to 8.5% in 2008) was one of

                                               -6-
the first attempts to quantify systematically the contribution of the ICT sector to the overall
economy. An increase of 2.5 points was ambitious but realistic given that this was a priority
sector for the Government and its commitment to further competition in the sector.

21.    The four components were clearly defined and in line with the PDO and KPI. Component
2 (e-government strategy and applications) represented the largest portion of the loan (42
percent); Components 1 (sector strategy and regulation) and 3 (eSecurity) represented about 20
percent each, and Component 4 (project management and WSIS preparation) represented about
12 percent of the loan. Half of the project dealt with consultant services, 40 percent with the
procurement of goods, and the rest with training.

22.     The implementation arrangements were very complex with ten implementing agencies
involved (1.4), which may be considered a weakness in the project design. This was decided at
the time of project negotiations with the counterparts. The Bank team suggested a leaner, more
focused project, with large turn-key packages for applications development. The Government
insisted on the importance of being inclusive and of spreading the demonstration effect of ICT
on the largest possible number of actors, with the view of disseminating ICT among the Tunisian
public administration. Both points of view had strengths and weaknesses. In spite of the large
number of agencies, the procurement plan did not appear overly complex at the beginning. The
project could be considered realistic at the time of preparation given the commitment shown by
the Government with regard to sector reform, and with the upcoming WSIS event creating
positive incentives for the Government to showcase its ICT sector as state-of-the-art, not only
from a technological standpoint but also in terms of investment and transparency. On balance,
the team and management concluded that it was important to support the forces of change in
Tunisia through sector reform and liberalization.

2.2 Implementation

23.    The loan was signed in July 2004 and the project, subsequently, became effective in
January 2005. The original closing date was June 2009, but was later postponed to December
2010.

24.      The project suffered early on from delays in all components. It took six months for the
project to become effective. The selection of a procurement specialist for the PMU took several
months, and that delayed project effectiveness. Once the PMU was fully-staffed, successive
governmental changes and limited capacity within some implementing agencies, together with
the national procurement processes that had to be followed, contributed to a slow implementation
pace. Very early on (December 2005), the Bank task team warned the Government of these
delays (in particular with Iset’Com and SupCom). These delays translated into low disbursement
rates. The Government shared the Bank team’s view, and ultimately canceled three acitvities,
albeit later in project implementation.

25.     Four main factors affected implementation. First, three different ministers managed the
project in succession over the life of the project. While Government’s commitment to reform
was not shaken, it was necessary to brief the new ministers and delays arose at the time of their
installation as they were getting familiar with their new ministerial portfolio.


                                                -7-
26.     The second factor related to the limited implementation capacity within some of the
implementing agencies. The PMU consisted of a strong team that provided high quality interface
with the Bank (and intense support to the implementing agencies) consistently throughout the
project. However this was not enough to make up for limited capacity in some agencies. In
addition, the procurement plan became more complex as the project progressed: in 2005, there
were a total of 29 technical assistance activities identified in the procurement plan; whereas in
2010, there were a total of 90 contracts that were signed. Some procurement packages were
divided in better identified tasks with a view to improve their implementation.

27.    The third factor affecting project implementation had to do with the technicalities
embedded in the ICT sector. High level of expertise was required from consultants, and contract
negotiations were complex and validation of deliverables by the agencies was a lengthy process.

28.     The fourth and last factor was related to the change management triggered by the rollout
of new applications. The engineers in the implementing agencies had good technical skills;
however, the administrative staff often did not understand or was not capable of managing
information technology dimension embedded in the new e-government applications. This proved
to be a challenge for project implementation.

29.     The factors related to project implementation capacity in ICT projects were not unknown
to the Bank team; however, they have been underestimated. The Tunisian counterparts had
excellent engineering skills, but the change management associated with eGovernment, and with
the implementation of complex IT systems in the public administration, was certainly
underestimated. A posteriori the implementation schedule appears overly optimistic: for instance
the ICT strategic plan, a pillar of the project, was planned in the first 18 months, but it did not
start until May 2009 for a final delivery at the very end of the project. Similarly, the eGov
strategy was originally planned for a delivery in July 2006, but was not completed until
December 2009. The complex data backup center was successfully implemented, but only at the
end of the project, with considerable delay.

30.    All along project implementation, however, the Government has expressed its
commitment to continue moving along the reform agenda. In early 2007 at the time of mid-term
review, the new sector law was finally adopted (after two years of delay). Some of the activities
were starting to have demonstrating effects, and the PDO was at hand’s reach. The teams
discussed in detail a project restructuring which took two years to be finally adopted.

31.    For the Bank team, project implementation went through, alternately, from satisfactory
improvements (the eDisabled program became quickly operational, but the eJustice portal and
the eCulture portal took longer to become effective) to worrisome delays (with the ICT strategy
and the eGov strategy) and drawbacks (with the outsourcing study, that was identified as a
promising new activity, and which eventually was canceled altogether).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.    M&E design: The objective of the project was to assist the Borrower in promoting the
development of its ICT sector by (i) supporting ICT institutional and sector reforms, (ii)
improving its e-security mechanisms, (iii) developing e-government applications, and (iv)
                                               -8-
 promoting the participation of the private sector in the ICT sector. The results framework was
 adequately defined. It covered one PDO objective (contribution of the ICT sector to the GDP)
 and ten outcome indicators were defined to monitor the components implementation (Annex 8).

 33.      The PDO accurately captured the objective of the project. From a statistical standpoint,
 the PDO is a measure that is subject to continuous improvement given that the ICT are by nature
 constantly evolving and penetrating an increased number of sectors and sub-sectors. In fact, in
 the last year of the project, the methodology was updated by the Institut d’Économie
 Quantitative, to come closer to International Standards Industrial Classification (ISIC),
 considered as best practice.4 As a result the baseline was modified downward: 4.3 percent in
 2005 instead of 7 percent for 2005. The original target set for 2008 was 8.5 percent; the actual
 result in 2008 evaluated under the old methodology was 10 percent, while the revised
 methodology’s result was 5.6 percent (Table 2).

 34.    More importantly, the ICT sector contribution to the GDP increased by more than 50
 percent over the project life.

 Table 2: PDO - Increase in share of ICT sector in GDP from 6% in 2003 to 8.5% in 2008
                         2004       2005      2006      2007      2008      2009      2010
Old methodology          5.9%         7%        8%       9%       10%      11%*      12%*
Revised methodology       n/a       4.3%      4.7%       5%      5.6%       6.3%     6.8%*
 *forecast

 35.     The other indicators were collected on a regular basis (Annex 8). Performance indicators
 in ISRs were regularly updated, except for the indicators relating to the number of requests
 submitted in the portals of eJustice and eCulture. This is explained by the fact that the eJustice
 portal became operational only during the last year of project implementation, and the eCulture,
 while technically ready, was not officially cleared for launching until the closing of the project.

 36.     M&E utilization: The utilization of the performance indicators contributed to raising the
 profile of the sector and increasing its visibility throughout the Government. One activity of the
 project was fully dedicated to strengthening data definition, collection and analysis pertained to
 the ICT sector; the revised methodology mentioned above is the direct output of this activity.
 Also, the M&E framework has helped better illustrate the pervasiveness of ICT in the Tunisian
 economy – and by doing so, demonstrated the importance of the ICT sector to the entire national
 economy.

 2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

 37.     There were no specific safeguard- and compliance-related issues.

 2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


 4
  Moving from an input/output parametric methodology based on a classification defined internally by the Institut
 National de la Statistique, to ISIC classification.


                                                        -9-
37.     Between 2009 and the end of 2010, the Government and the Bank team had been in
agreement to start preparing a follow-up project. A working team comprised of various
ministries met a few times and put together a detailed table of proposals, including objective,
scope of activities, timeline, M&E, and financial resources. These took into account the new ICT
strategy prepared under the project; in particular, its final draft that was circulated in the final
trimester of 2010.

38.      Also in December 2010, the Bank team managed to secure the organization of a Korean-
sponsored workshop on mobile applications that was attended by a large audience from the
public and private sector, and was greatly appreciated by the participants as it gave opportunities
to discuss the concrete success stories of the Korean ICT experience in the area of mobile
applications in a competitive environment with full freedom to access the Internet and develop
applications in the digital space. In addition to this event, the Bank team submitted an application
to the telecom and ICT reform-related Korean Trust Fund with a view to having it contribute
towards the preparation of the follow-up operation.

39.      Following the “Jasmine Revolution?, the interim government is mandated to prepare the
next presidential elections, and the sectoral dialogue was suspended for a few weeks. At the time
of this ICR preparation, the prospects of a new ICT project are relatively high, although the
timeline of its implementation remains mostly still undecided. In March, the Bank’s country
team opted for a multisectoral DPL operation which is being actively prepared, with ICT as a
cross-cutting subject. In particular, with the fund available under the Korean Trust Fund, a
collaborative project with the health sector is being designed to strengthen accountability through
the use of ICT applications. As a product of the dialogue with the counterparts, the Tunisia GO
DPL has included two measures related to ICT: i) liberalization of the domain “.tn?, with less
administrative procedures to register and host “.tn? websites, and the extension of the number of
subjects that can be Domain Name registrars; and ii) introduction of technical guidelines to
encourage government websites to include citizen feedback loops using ICT-enabled social
media, such as Facebook.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory
40.
41.     The Tunisia ICT project was aligned with the 10th Development Plan (2002-2006) which
aimed to support the emergence of a knowledge-based economy. At the same time, the CAS for
Tunisia adopted in June 2004 identified modernization of information infrastructure services
through private investment as a priority to be supported by Bank operations. In that context the
project’s relevance was high.

42.     The project was very innovative for its time: in 2002-2003 at the time of its preparation,
there had been very limited engagements – in Tunisia and in the rest of the developing world – in
the area of e-applications, setting up of a national back-up center, strengthening of e-security in

                                               - 10 -
the civil society, or development of tools to improve access to ICTs by the disabled. The Bank
team and the Borrower were overly optimistic about the implementation timeline, in spite of the
overall high level of ICT competencies within the Borrower’s project teams, and of the fact that
numerous applications that were originally considered in the project scope, were finally dropped
to keep the size of the project more manageable. Annex 7 showcases the success of four of the
project outputs: eJustice portal, e-Disabled, the national back-up center, and eCulture (which,
though not yet online, has an incredibly rich content).

43.     Over the project life, the combination of various factors kicking in at different times, has
translated into slow implementation. However, as explained in para. 3.2, the PDO and
intermediary performance indicators were all met or exceeded, except for one relating to the
number of certified auditors in cybersecurity: 178 certified auditors against the target of 220).
Overall, the delays resulted from successive Government changes, time-consuming and
bureaucratic national procurement processes, technicalities of the procurement packages that
triggered a lengthy clearance process, and limited capacity in some implementing agencies. The
non-disbursement of a telecom sector-related DPL tranche contributed to a cooling in the policy
dialogue between the Bank team and the Government, but it also strengthened the credibility and
reputation of the Bank. Finally, there was also a lull in project activities after the 2005 WSIS.
Nevertheless, in the last two years of the project, owing to a dynamic PIU, the implementing
agencies picked up the pace and several activities were completed just before the project ended.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

44.     The PDO, as discussed in para. 2.3, was achieved: in 2008 (original project closing date)
the ICT sector contribution to GDP reached 10 percent, above the original objective. After
project extension and subsequent restructuring, the new target for project end in 2010 was
ambitiously set at 12 percent, and this target was reached (based on the old INS classification
and methodology).

45.       The intermediary indicators were also fully met:
         Contributing to greater sector liberalization, with 3 operators holding now eight licenses5
          (against an initial target of two), one of which was a global license awarded to Orange
          Tunisie, the first of its kind in the region.
         Increased competition translated into increased access: fixed and mobile penetration
          reached 118 percent from 32 percent in 2003; the initial target of 60 percent in 2008 that
          was already exceeded at 95 percent that year; target for 2010 was 109 percent).
         Increased competition was fueled by private sector investment in the ICT sector whose
          share reached 72 percent in 2010 (against a target of 65 percent), from 35.2 percent in
          2003 and the original objective of 60 percent in 2008.




5
    2 fixed licenses, 2 VSAT, 2 GSM, 3 Wimax, and 1 global license


                                                      - 11 -
         Of the two eGov portals that were planned to be operational by project end, only the
          eJustice portal is fully operational (with 25,000 downloading in December 2010), while
          the eCulture portal is at a very advanced stage (only some last detailed content
          clarification were still under review at the time the project ended).
         The eDisabled solution targeting the schools was fully operational early on and
          constitutes a unique feature of the project. The number of disabled students benefiting
          from the project went from 600 in 2006 to 3,201 in 2009, and 8,370 in 2010
         The eAccessibility activity (web accessibility of all the administration applications in line
          with international standards in terms of access by disabled users) was completed in
          December 2010.
         The creation of a Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) with 16 specially-
          trained team members was achieved in a fully satisfactory way, and the Tunisian CERT
          was the first African team to become a member of the FIRST (Forum for Incident
          Response Team) Initiative. FIRST is a global leader in incident response.
         The construction and operationalization of a national back-up center was achieved by
          project closing; it offered the first cybersecurity infrastructure and a large backup
          capacity (4 terabytes) to the Government. In addition, 178 auditors were certified in
          security at ANSI by end of 2010.

46.     Details on project outputs by component are presented in Annex 2. In addition, specific
annexes on eJustice, eCulture, eDisabled and on the back-up center provide in-depth description
of project achievements in these fields.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

47.    The PAD’s economic and financial analysis briefly discusses four areas of economic
impact that were meant to emanate from the project, but which, however, cannot be fully
dissociated from the overall ICT strategy:

      -   increased ICT expenditure derived from further sector liberalization
      -   declining production costs brought about by the more effective competition in all
          telecommunications market segments
      -   lower transaction costs in the private sector (through lower Internet cost and greater
          accessibility, allowing better e-commerce and supply chain management, and overall
          better quality control over production of services), as well as in the public sector (through
          eGov applications)
      -   employment creation generated by new entrants, contractors, suppliers and retailers.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

48.       Based on the above-mentioned factors, the overall outcome rating is satisfactory.


                                                 - 12 -
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

49.     The project’s component on the e-Disabled was a very innovative feature of the project,
and was highly successful in its implementation (Annex 8). They comprised of two activities: (i)
improving access of students in schools to computer labs with adapted equipments and
applications); and (ii) generalizing disabled-adapted applications in the specialized access centers
so that all computers can be used by disabled people). A multi-site videoconference was
organized to showcase the e-Handicapés experience, with South America and Africa countries. A
good practice note was published in an international specialized journal.

50.     The Government also requested a study on Women and ICT in Tunisia that provided a
detailed overview of the access and usage of ICT by Tunisian women and the report suggested a
number of recommendations to increase access. ICT use by women in Tunisia was found to be
not significantly lower than that of men. Rather, usage was affected more by the socio-economic
situation.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

51.     Most of the capacity building activities went to the INT and the CERT. In both areas,
capacity building was greatly needed. In the case of INT, capacity building was organized
through technical assistances with five important studies on interconnection, tariff policy based
on cost models, numbering, local loop unbundling, and broadband access. Those studies were
catalytic in allowing the organization to better negotiate and adopt interconnection catalogs
(every year since 2006). Samewise, INT was able to determine the rules of local loop unbundling
in 2009. INT’s role in implementing the decision on liberalization the “.tn? domain name also
reflects on its ability to be an effective body of regulation enforcement. However, further
capacity building will still be needed to assert the regulator’s autonomy and independence, in
particular in the post-revolution era in which it is critical to bring all the operators, including the
incumbent, on a true level-playing field competition.

52.     The creation of the CERT, supported by the project, is seen from inside and from outside
as a success. Internally, the Government intends to replicate similar organization in the key
sectors of the economy (banking, tourism, education, etc.). Externally the Tunisian CERT is the
first African organization to join FIRST (Forum for Incidence Response and Security Teams).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low


                                                - 13 -
53.     With the Jasmine Revolution which started just a few days after the project closing, it is
difficult to predict how fast the next generation of reforms needed in the sector (full competition
in telecom, broadband and wider access to high speed internet) can be implemented. A year
before the project was to be completed, the Government had expressed its interest to continue the
reform with World Bank support. With the Revolution, short-term priorities are to prepare the
elections, support employment creation and improve governance. The ICT agenda can help those
short-term objectives and in particular this project has supported the first generation of reforms
that provided a key foundation for achieving these objectives.

54.     The new telecom legal framework and increased private sector participation in the sector
– both supported by the project – have taken the telecommunication sector in Tunisia to a new
level of competition and connectivity that is unlikely to be reversed. Thanks to the partial
liberalization in the sector, investments have grown fifteen-fold between 2004 and 2008.
Telecommunications reached 7.4 percent of total gross investment in 2008.6 From a technical
standpoint, the use of ICT in public and private sector is growingly pervasive and, ultimately, the
best suited solutions to business development and quality delivery of services. From an economic
standpoint, international benchmarking suggests that investments in the telecommunications and
ICT sectors yield significant fiscal revenues, and that an adequate legal and regulatory
framework can attract greater Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) – for instance the partial
privatization of Tunisie Telecom in 2006 (35%) generated US$ 2.2 billion of FDI (more than
half of total FDI).

55.     From a social standpoint, access to ICT can significantly improve the quality of life of the
lowest-income group by encouraging job creation. Concrete risks of policy reversals always exist.
In the case of Tunisia however, the most recent decisions taken by the “care-taker? Government
and pertaining to the liberalization of the “.tn? domain name, and the introduction of technical
guidelines to encourage government websites to include citizen feedback loops using ICT-
enabled social media, are a sign that Tunisia is moving concretely towards an information
society.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

56.     The Bank team prepared this project in 2003 within a short amount of time to meet the
urgent request from the Government in view of the upcoming WSIS event. The team was
composed of the same people that had contributed to the preparation of the 2002 ICT Policy


6
 Diop, Ndiame;Vincellette, Gallina A.;Molouche, Mariem;Young Lee, Sun;Dee, Philippa;Walkenhorst,
Peter;Cattaneo, Olivier; Tunisia's global integration : a second generation of reforms to boost growth and
employment, The World Bank, 2008


                                                       - 14 -
Note, so it had a good knowledge of the sector. In spite of a fast track process, the PAD was well
aligned with the Government’s strategy and the CAS. It was also well informed, and in many
areas, proposed innovative activities and bold objectives.

57.      However the assessment of the readiness of the Tunisian counterpart was overly
optimistic and the implementation complexity was under estimated. As mentioned earlier,
institutional arrangements covered 10 implementing agencies, some of them were brought on
board without much prior consultation. As a result, some implementing agencies underperformed
very early on, and eventually had to be dropped (Iset’ Com, Sup’ Com).

58.     The project was innovative in that it covered the launch of nationwide e-applications
related to the eGov program. The paper-based process that had traditionally governed the
administrative organization had to be translated into electronic data and stored accordingly. Such
process requires a whole transformation of the way-of-doing-business in the administration. In
2003, the Bank had not yet mainstreamed such activities. In addition, the project was targeting an
unusual population, the disabled youth, in a component that proved to be very successful. The e-
applications were innovative, but the Bank underestimated the time needed between project/pilot
design, and actual full-speed implementation; in particular the eJustice and eCulture components
were implemented with delays.

59.    The M&E framework was well designed to reflect the project implementation
performance, and the Borrower was able to feed all the indicators (except for two that were
supposed to be defined and collected by mid-term review, and were collected only in the last
months of the project implementation). The targets were reasonably ambitious.

60.    The risk assessment was worked into much detail, and demonstrated that the Bank team
understood the political interference and vested interests that were at stake in the project scope.
The Overall Risk Rating was High. Four out of eight aspects were rated High Risk.7 The
proposed risk mitigation measures were reasonable and realistic.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61.      The strongest pillar of the project dealt with the policy, legal and regulatory framework, a
field in which the Bank team had solid experience. The Bank team challenged the Government
with a plan for rapid sector liberalization, a strategic orientation that the Government first
resisted, and then implemented at a very gradual pace. There always is an opportunity cost in
delaying such liberalization and private sector participation reforms. The way this project was


7
  (i) GOT has an inherent bias toward public provision of services, (ii) the project will be decentralized to too many
agencies with limited project implementation capacity, (iii) technical assistance will be provided to agencies but key
political issues in sector reform may remain unaddressed, and (iv) eGov services will be under-used by citizens due
to restrictive government policies on Internet which hamper development of Internet hosts and provision of Internet
access services.


                                                        - 15 -
implemented helped reforms to happen in a faster pace compared to the likely pace of solely
Government-engineered intervention.

62.     The focus on development impact remained constant throughout the project. The Bank
team delivered high quality policy advice to the Government, which contributed to a trusting
relationship between the Bank and the Government whereby the Bank team was able to share
knowledge and best practices, and contribute to high exposure for the Government. The Bank
team regularly communicated to the Government its concerns pertaining to the causes of delay of
the liberalization process, pointing out that this would seriously slow down the take off of
Internet usage by businesses and households which, in turn, would limit the growth impact on
the GDP. The advice provided by the Bank team was highly valued by the Borrower, and
explains why early on, the Government sought to secure future Bank support for its ICT reform
with a follow-up project.

63.      While overall the supervision proceeded rather well, the delay in processing the
restructuring (in 2009, whereas it was initially discussed in 2007) and the disconnect between the
ISR (Implementation Performance ratings were satisfactory all along project implementation)
call for a “moderately satisfactory? rating. An average of one to two annual supervision missions
comprising of sector specialists and fiduciary experts took place during project implementation.
In 2008 and part of 2009, the task team leader was based in Tunis and this allowed a quasi daily
interaction between the Bank team, the PIU, and the implementing agencies. In the last two years
of the project, the PIU organized monthly conference calls between Tunis and Washington, DC
to take stock of implementation progress withthe relevant agencies whose activities were still
under supervision. As a result, project implementation accelerated. It remains difficult to explain
the delay with which the Bank and the Government proceeded with the restructuring. Part of this
is attributed to the uncertainty around whether or not to restructure the project when three
activities were cancelled and three new were identified. Whenthe need to cancel part of the loan
was determined, the restructuring was allowed to proceed. An overall optimism reigned during
and after supervision missions. Until at least January 2009, shortly after the 18-month extension
was approved, the Bank team was confident that the loan amount would be fully committed and
disbursed by end of 2010.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

64.     The performance of the Bank team was satisfactory in several ways, but there were a
number of shortcomings that impeded a flawless project implementation as envisaged at the
preparation stage. In the Tunisian context, the way leading to liberalization, private sector
participation and increased access to ICT was paved with pitfalls. With its proven technical and
sectoral knowledge and experience, the Bank team was able to build trust and influence the
policy orientations and regulatory changes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance


                                              - 16 -
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

65.     While Government ownership and commitment to achieving the PDO was repeatedly
reaffirmed, and the involvement of the Secretary of State was evident, they were not enough to
avoid a slow implementation pace.

66.     Due to Government restructuring, the Tunisian team that prepared the project was not the
same than the one appointed to implement it. In fact, the team that was in charge of
implementation in the newly-created MCT did not know anything about the project that had been
prepared. Moreover, there was no overlapping transition period, and neither did an organized
takeover materialize. The learning curve was very stiff and that contributed to the slow start of
the project.

67.     The two studies that were planned for the 2005 WSIS were eventually prepared on time
and presented to the public; however, the eCulture portal which had been announced was not
made available on time. At WSIS, the Government announced a new sector law with five themes
and 25 concrete measures; yet, the law was not passed until 2007. It is also worth noting that the
insufficient support and lack of empowerment provided to INT in its mission to enforce the new
telecommunication law, did not allow for wider liberalization, and instead, preserved the current
situation. The INT greatly benefitted from the technical assistance provided through this
operation, but the regulatory independence of INT needs to be strengthened. That said, the
Government took the initiative to organize an internal consultation with stakeholders in order to
shape the scope of a follow-up project with the Bank, replete with ambitious objectives.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

68.     The PIU should be acknowledged for the solid and consistent support it has provided to
project implementation overall. Interestingly though, and unlike other Bank projects, the PIU
members were never appointed formally for this task. They took the responsibility of project
implementation while dealing with their “official? position in the MCT. In spite of this
potentially challenging situation, the PIU members remained focused and motivated. In the last
two years of implementation when supervision involved monthly conference calls, the PIU kept
the underperforming implementing agencies under pressure so that the last activities could be
completed by project closure. The performance of the PIU in fiduciary matters was satisfactory.

69.     Some of the implementing agencies were reliable and efficient, whereas others have
shown weaknesses and unresponsiveness to accumulating delays. These delays can be partly
attributed to the national procurement processes that are lengthy, and that are in addition to the
Bank’s procurement process. But a lot of the delays also came from lack of capacity (in
Sup’Com, Ist’Com and MCT). In the case of the eCulture component, while the technical work
was performed rather rapidly, and MTC followed the technical implementation of this activity
very diligently, the final sign-off from the Ministry of Culture to launch the portal was not given
by project end. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs, ANSI
and CERT have demonstrated good will and capacity to implement their components, although
some of them experienced a slow start.

                                               - 17 -
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

70.      In view of the above, the rating is moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

71.    Most of the lessons learned in this project are sector specific, while others pertain more
generally to project implementation.

      a) A government that is embracing the concept of information society may not necessarily
         be ready to take the policy decisions that such a concept implies in terms of sector
         liberalization, private sector participation, level playing field competition, freedom of
         expression, and access to information and the Internet. While some publications (e.g.
         Network Readiness Index) rank Tunisia very high in terms of ICT readiness, the team
         assessed that the Internet censorship constitutes a major bottleneck for greater economic
         growth. A faster sector liberalization would have contributed to more competition, in
         particular in the area of high-speed Internet, and allow a faster trickling-down effect on
         the economy. Telecommunication liberalization and entry of private sector is difficult in
         an economy that is tightly controlled by a small group of powerful business people close
         to the Government. This may, however, be a general attribute of the telecommunication
         sector, as similar concentration of financial interests also characterize the sector
         elsewhere in the world. This does not obliterate the impact on the consumers who benefit
         from greater and more affordable access to ICT services, but this may slow down impact
         on price decline and quality of service improvement. This, on the other hand, has also
         helped identify the following critical bottlenecks that need to be addressed in order to
         allow the Government’s information society policy to flourish:

          Elimination of content control on government websites, liberalization of content
           control and of internet authorization process.
          Liberalization of Tunisia's domain name (.tn) to encourage the creation of Tunisian
           websites.
          Liberalization of the Internet exchange point, and allowing several Internet exchange
           points in Tunisia to speed up communication and improve the quality of service.
          Liberalization at ISP level to increase competition, diversify value-added services and
           lower prices.

      b) ICT for disabled children and adults is an important issue that can be successfully
         addressed if a Government is committed to making a genuine difference for this group.
         The key elements of success of this initiative were the existence of a policy for the sector,
         the availability of excellent statistics on this target group that enabled customization of
         this program, and the leveraging on NGOs that –, while not fully independent – provided
         a better follow-up on this activity than would have been the case if the activity had been
         placed under a government department.

                                                 - 18 -
    c) There is a mismatch between World Bank project life-cycle and technology life-cycle.




    d) Successful implementation of eGov applications require availability of technical
       capacities in the implementing agencies, available competencies in the local ICT sector,
       and sustained and incentivized leadership, without which application development can
       take several years between project design and portal launch. It is important to be realistic
       when setting the timeline at the appraisal stage. This project was one of the first of its
       kind, and the timeline from design to roll-out of the e-applications proved to be
       unrealistic. New approaches are being used around the world, particularly around the
       concept of “agile computing?. For example, UK's alpha.gov.uk site was developed in
       about three months with a relatively small budget (GBP 261,000) and by using a small,
       multi-disciplinary team of developers, designers, and editors.

    e) A technology-based project requires flexibility and capacities in the field. The appraisal
       did not capture the flexibility needed in a technology project well enough. This project
       showed that planning costs of ICT acquisition of equipments and applications more than
       one year in advance is likely to bring inaccurate budget evaluation. Annual reevaluation
       of the main ICT components may help plan project restructuring (cancellation of
       proceeds) in advance. This lesson also highlights that the Bank’s traditional approach to
       project appraisal may have limited applicability to a technology-driven project.

    (e) The large number of implementing agencies also caused difficulties, although eGov
        projects by definition should involve several agencies. Such difficulties could have been
        reduced with better anchoring of project implementation at the prime ministerial level.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Annex 5
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



                                               - 19 -
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (USD millions)
                               Appraisal             Updated         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
         Components
                                Estimate            allocation*        Estimate         Appraisal
 1. ICT SECTOR
STRATEGY, POLICY, AND                2.96                                      1.45       49.00%
REGULATION
 2. E-GOVERNMENT
SERVICES AND                         5.61                                      3.56       63.46%
APPLICATIONS
 3. E-SECURITY                       2.92                                      2.06       70.05%
4. PMU and WSIS                      1.64                                      1.1        60.98%
  4A.SUPPORT TO WSIS
                                          0.55
  PREPARATION
  4B. ICT SECTOR
  MONITORING AND                          0.55
  SUPPORT
  4C. STRENGTHENING OF
                                          0.54
  PMU



        Total Baseline Cost              13.13                                 8.1           61.7%
Physical Contingencies
                                          0.00                                               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                          0.00                                               0.00
         Total Project Costs              0.00
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00                                                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                                                .00
  Total Financing Required               13.13              9.8                8.1

Exchange rate Jan. 2010: 1 Euro = 1.4 USDollar
* In the December 2009 restructuring, there was no table showing the new allocation by
component.

(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of                                     Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                  Estimate       Estimate
                                           Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                 2.24           0.00           .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                          13.13         0.00           .00
and Development




                                                 - 20 -
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component


1) Information and Communications Strategy, Policy, and Regulation.

   (d) The elaboration of a strategic long-term plan for developing the ICT sector, including a
       strategy for promotion of universal access: This activity experienced significant delays in
       its implementation, mostly due to procurement reasons. The final product was presented
       to the Government in November 2010 shortly before the end the project. It was a
       comprehensive and detailed strategy based on 6 strategic orientations (broadband access,
       ICT in SMEs, ICT in schools and in vocational training, content, industrial platform, and
       ICT and R&D), declined in 16 strategic initiatives and 26 measures. A few weeks after
       this presentation, the Government has taken another look at the strategy and decided to
       give an emphasis to three cross-cutting thematics: sector liberalization, ICT and
       employment, and access to ICT throughout the country.

   (e) The award of additional licenses gave a unique edge to the Government of Tunisia:
       through this activity, the Government was the first in the region to award a
       technologically neutral license to Orange Tunisie (2G, 3G, fixed and data). In total during
       the project implementation, the Government issued 8 licenses which contributed to
       increase the competition in the sector.

   (f) Capacity building for the INT comprised of several activities: reports (market study,
       numbering and portability, and broadband access), capacity building (training on a
       various number of topics ranging from tariff regulation to new 3G technologies and cost
       accounting), workshops (competition in the telecommunication sector, local loop
       unbundling) and technical assistance to the team (local loop unbundling and
       interconnection tariffs). Most importantly, capacity building provided to the staff is
       expected to have a long lasting impact in the strengthening of the institution.

   (g) Women and ICT in Tunisia: this activity was added at the time of project restructuring. It
       provided insights about the interaction between Tunisians women and ICT use in the
       private and professional spheres, and allowed the Ministry to share statistics with
       international organizations.

2) E-government Strategy, Services, and Applications.

   (a) Definition of an e-government strategy, based on international benchmarking: this study
       was coordinated by a Secretariat linked to the Prime Minister’s office and as such, it
       allowed determining an eGov strategy for each Ministry. Without such central and
       empowered coordinator, the outcomes of the study may not have been used as such.

   (b) Development of e-government applications and online services in ministries and agencies,
       such as the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (portal and on-line services), the
       Ministry of Culture, Youth, and Leisure (portal and on-line promotion), and the Ministry
       of Communication Technologies and Transport (virtual ICT library):
                                              - 21 -
In this subcomponent, a number of e-government portals were created:
eJustice: http://www.e-justice.tn
This subcomponent that covers a number of items such as legal cases database, library software,
security and email system, and a portal. The portal provides citizens and lawyers with various
services such as: follow-up affairs (17 types), downloadable Official Forms (8 forms) and 30
models of court applications. This new space gives litigators and lawyers the opportunity to
monitor reported cases and obtain information on matters affecting them in the last five years.
The eJustice portal also offers a judicial map, which provides online information about the courts
in different regions of the country with their creation date and address, and allows electronic
transactions and payments (Annex 9a).

eCulture: http://www.culture.tn
This subcomponent consisted of the creation of a portal for the promotion of the Tunisian
cultural capital. It suffered several delays in the beginning, and then quickly reached a point
where a pilot was demonstrated to the World Bank (fall 2008). The pilot was at a well advanced
stage, with 4,000 pages of information and multimedia content. The Tunisian Agency for
External Communication (ATCE) started its clearance process in 2009, but in spite of several
reminders it was not until September 2010 that it officially cleared it. In the last few months of
the project, difficulties arose to reach the point of portal launch: issues related to some translation,
and the hosting of the portal by the Agence Tunisienne de l’Internet (ATI) created some last
minutes complications. The WB Team then approached the WB Team working on a tourism
project to see whether this project could take the eCulture portal to its launch and at least support
the definition and implementation of an appropriate communication strategy.

eDisabled:
This subcomponent was aiming at the creation of solutions to equip selected schools and social
service centers with specialized IT solutions for the disabled, under the direction of the Ministry
of Social Affairs and Solidarity.
A local software company developed specialized software with a series of courses targeting the
needs of disabled children, affected by mental and learning disabilities. In 2009, 5,000 disabled
children followed digital courses. Starting school year 2009, these programs have been
generalized to all special education centers with a computer room and to all normal schools that
integrate disabled children.
The ICT Sector Development Project also succeeded in establishing telecenters for the disabled.
Since March 2010, there are a total of 24 centers, which are diffused all over the country, one per
each region. These centers include equipment with Braille keyboards or touch screen and with
sign language and various multiple functions.

Domain Name System (DNS):
This assistance to the ATI aimed at establishing a solution to create domain names in Arabic
characters, and was successfully delivered end of 2009. In January 2011, there were 28 newly
registered Arabic domain names.

eAccessibility:


                                                - 22 -
This activity was added to the original procurement plan, and aimed at applying the web
accessibility guidelines (defined by W3C/WAI and endorsed by the UN) to the Tunisian
administrative websites. This activity was covering 5 ministries as pilot.

In this component, the activities related to the distance learning plateform and to the virtual
library were cancelled.

3) E-Security:

   (d) Develop and implement a computer risk-prevention strategy based on the Computer
       Emergency Response Team (CERT) model at ANSI: This activity aimed at developing
       and implementing a computer risk prevention strategy (against virus, cyber-crime, etc.)
       with the creation and training of a CERT, through technical assistance, training and IT
       equipments purchase. The CERT was established with 16 professionals trained on
       cybersecurity and providing technical assistances to other African organizations (such as
       the Government of South Africa for the preparation of the 2010 World Cup). Annex 9b
       provides a detailed account of the achievements under this activity. The Tunisian CERT
       is the only African member of FIRST (Forum for Incident Response Team, a global
       leader in incident response).

   (e) IT security lab for research and education: This activity was cancelled.

   (f) Data backup center: This was a pillar activity of the project and the largest from a
       financial standpoint. In spite of several delays, the national backup center was eventually
       delivered and operational in the last month of the project implementation (Annex 9c).
       This activity was complex as it dealt with the construction and the equipment of a backup
       center with several security and inter-ministerial dimensions. The architecture is based on
       three centers. The production centre gathers all of the information concerning inter-
       administration government applications (i.e. management of the staff, management of
       public procurement etc). The production center sends the information to the intermediary
       data backup center in real time (synchronous transfer and updating) via fiber optic. The
       intermediary data center concurrently transfers information in asynchronous mode to the
       remote data backup centre, situated in a location about 30km from Tunis. The remote
       data center is situated in a zone protected by physical barriers and in proximity of
       military assets. All functional tests have been successfully completed. The transfer
       between production and intermediary centers is synchronous. The transfer between
       intermediary and final centers has an overall latency time of 15 minutes. The volume of
       data currently handles 1.5 Terabytes of data, with a capacity of 4 Terabytes. Over 10
       major national applications are included (budget management, human resources
       management, missions management, State property management, municipalities budget
       monitoring, civil identification management, stock and purchase management, etc.). The
       next step that the Authorities are contemplating is to virtualize all applications and have a
       backup mechanism of the backup on the cloud.




                                               - 23 -
4) Project Management and Support to the Preparation of WSIS 2005.

This component provided technical assistance to the Government to implement a complex and
innovative project, with emphasis on results by WSIS in 2005.

It included a subcomponent on the preparation of the World Summit for Information Society,
with a benchmark of the Tunisian ICT industry in terms of dynamism, competitiveness and ICT
companies’ development. It also covered a study on private sector participation to the ICT sector.
Each study was presented during the Summit. The project also funded a high level roundtable on
ICT and outsourcing.

The WSIS was an important milestone for the Tunisian government. It was object to debate
given the limited Internet access available before, during and after the Summit, and the perceived
control over the Internet. It was however an important experience for the government, and has
allowed an exposure to international best practice and quality standard that some of the Tunisian
officials did not have before. It contributed to changing the mind of some government officials,
and bringing the private sector concern for more level-playing field competition on the table.

The second component dealt with the definition of a monitoring and evaluation framework for
the ICT sector. Although a part of this activity was cancelled (related to the development of a
database and training for the staff on the database, which will be funded through State budget),
this activity allowed to improve the calculation of the contribution of the ICT sector to the GDP
(see 2.3).




                                              - 24 -
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project was expected to result in considerable economic benefits but it was considered that
these benefits could not be separated from those of ICT development generally. No specific
economic analysis was applied to assess the economic impact; however most of the anticipated
impact described below was tangible at the project’s end:

    Increased ICT expenditures, initially in telecommunications services not directly related
     to project activities and in the longer run from both investments in the ICT sector to
     expand production and backward linkages to other sectors – comments: the project’s PDO
     illustrates that the contribution of the ICT sector to the GDP has almost doubled during
     the project’s life, reinforcing this economic impact.
    Declining production costs as effective competition develops in telecommunications, in
     the short term benefiting mainly the service sectors and, in the long run, also spurring
     productivity gains in other sectors – comments: no specific analysis was run to illustrate
     this anticipated positive impact, but globally the declining cost of telecommunication and
     Internet contributes to economic growth through gain in productivity.
    Lower transaction costs throughout the economy and better access to services by the
     population at large, resulting from increased used of Internet, including e-commerce and
     e-government applications – comments: intermediary indicators show a substantial
     increase in telecommunication penetration, 118% in 2010 compared to 49.5% in 2004.
    Lower risk of systemic failure of critical Government administrative information systems,
     resulting from the adoption and implementation of an e-security program – comments:
     The national back-up center and the CERT initiative have together contributed to
     considerably mitigate this risk.
    Employment creation related to (a) new work opportunities in the ICT sector that more
     than offset labor productivity gains from competition, and (b) higher economic growth
     and diversification, following economy-wide spillovers of ICT development – comments:
     this link has not been analyzed precisely, although other studies have proven the job
     creation impact of the knowledge economy.




                                             - 25 -
       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Dominique Bichara          Special Rep. to The United Nat         EXTUN
Rafika Chaouali            Lead Financial Management Spec         OPCOS
Antonio J. Cittati         Consultant                             AFTPC
Lucy J. Cueille            Consultant                             PRMTR
Kashmira Daruwalla         Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSO2
Bruno Dominique Lanvin     Adviser                                TWICT
Anat Lewin                 Operations Officer                     TWICT
Michel H. Maechler         Sr Auditor                             IADVP
Samia Melhem               Senior Operations Officer              TWICT
Mather B. Pfeiffenberger   Operations Analyst                     FPDID
Rajesh B. Pradhan          Consultant                             FPDID
Carlo Maria Rossotto       Senior ICT Policy Specialist           TWICT
Bjorn Wellenius            Consultant                             TWICT
Supervision/ICR
Lacinda Jene Barrow        Program Assistant                     TWICT
Philippe Dongier           Sector Manager                        TWICT
Isabelle Huynh             Operations Officer                    TWICT
Bruno Dominique Lanvin     Adviser                               TWICT
Anat Lewin                 Operations Officer                    TWICT
Michel H. Maechler         Sr Auditor                            IADVP
Moez Makhlouf              Consultant                            MNAFM
Mather B. Pfeiffenberger   Operations Analyst                     FPDID
Francesco Sarno            Consultant                            AFTEN
Arleen Cannata Seed        Senior Team Leader                    ISGLA


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                      157.28
  FY05                                                                        0.17
  FY06                                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                                        0.00
  FY08                                                                        0.00
                           Total:                                           157.45
Supervision/ICR


                                           - 26 -
FY04                       0.00
FY05                     188.45
FY06                     111.78
FY07                     103.10
FY08                      53.05
       Total:            456.38




                - 27 -
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



                     REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                 Ministry of Industry and Technology
                                 ***
          State Secretariat of Communication Technologies

                     Project Management Unit


     ICT Sector Development Project in Tunisia
                    IBRD Loan 7244-TUN


                 Completion Report
                         February 2011




                              - 28 -
                                         Summary
A-Introduction

       A.1. Key Dates

       A.2. Project Introduction

       A.3. Project Management Unit (PMU)

B-Description of Activities and Evaluation

    B.1. Objectives/Results/Evaluation

    B.2. Performance Indicators

D-Conclusion: Results Figures, Recommandations et Lessons Learned



A-Project Introduction

A.1. Key dates

Loan signature          July 2nd, 2004
Approval                Law 2004-64 (Aug. 2nd, 2004)
Effectiveness           Jan. 18th, 2005
Original closing date   June 30th, 2009
Revised closing date    Dec. 31st, 2010
Original amount         Euro 10.8 million
Revised amount          Euro 8.1 million

A.2. Project Overview

The ICT sector project in Tunisia was funded by the World Bank (Loan No. 7244-TUN). It
aimed to help Tunisia in promoting the development of the ICT sector by:

        Supporting policy and institutional reforms in ICT
        Improving its electronic security
        Developing applications and e-government
        Promoting private sector participation in ICT development

The development project of the ICT sector in Tunisia had four components they are:

        Component1: Strategy, policy and regulation in information and communication
         Component 2: Strategy, services and applications of e-Gov
        Component 3: Computer security

                                              - 29 -
       Component 4: Project management and support to the preparation of World Summit on
        the Information Society (WSIS)

A.3. Project Management Unit (PMU)

To ensure project management from the point of view of performance and financial monitoring,
coordination between the various bodies concerned and with the World Bank, the Minister of
Communication Technologies appointed a Project Management Unit attached to Office of the
Ministry.

The PMU was composed of:

       Unit Coordinator: Dr. Mohamed Abida (2005-November 2007) and Mr Fethi Methnani,
        director of technical post in the Ministry of Communication Technologies (December
        2007-2011)
       Procurement Expert: Mr. Fethi Methnani, (2005-2011)
       Expert in project management: Ms. Thouraya EZZINE, Director of Studies, Planning and
        Approvals at the Ministry of Communication Technologies (2005-2011)
       Financial Expert: Mr. Abderrazek Zouari, Assistant Director of Budgets at the Ministry
        Communication Technologies (May 2006-July 2009) and then Mr. Abdessalem Ouerfelli,
        Communication Inspector (July 2009 ¬ 2011)
       Legal Expert: Ms. Mbarka Missaoui, Assistant Director of Legal Studies at the Ministry
        of Communication Technologies (2005-2006)
       ICT Expert: Ms Ahlem Ghorbel, Tunisie Telecom (2005-2006)

B-Description of Activities and Evaluation

B.1. Goals / Accomplishments / Rating

                                Objectives/Targets                          Achievments 
                           Original            Revised                2008                2010 
Growth of ICT        From 6% in 2003 to  12% in 2010           10% (old method) 12% (old method)
Sector in the GDP    8% in 2008                                                    
(CAS Indicator)                                                5.5% (new method) 6.8% (new method)
Granting of 2 new    2 new licenses in    2 fixed, 2 VSAT, 3                      2 fixed, 2 VSAT, 3 
licenses in 2004?    VSAT and data in     GSM, 1 unified (3g,                     GSM, 1 unified (3g, 
2005 in the VSAT     2004?2005            Wimax, data)                            Wimax, data) 
segments and data 
transmissions.   
Number of fixed      From 32% in 2003     109%                94.8%                118% 
and mobile phone     to 60% in 2008 
lines in % of the 
population. 
Increase in ICT      From 35.2% in     65% in 2008            64%                  72% 
investment by the    2003 to 60% in 
private sector.      2008 
Implement? ation     2 new government  eJustice portal        2 prototypes         2 operational 
of 2  government     portals in Nov.   eCulture portal        (eJustice and        portals (eCulute 

                                                     - 30 -
online portals in        2005, and 2                                  eCulture)           still is restricted 
November 2005            additional by end                                                access mode) 
and two additional       2008 
portals at the end 
of the project in 
2008. 
Number of portal                                                                          EJustice, Nov09: 
access put in                                                                             3018 accesses 
place.** 
Number of                                                                                 EJustice, Nov.09: 
downloads per                                                                             24960 downloads 
year.**  
Number of                                                             3201                8370 
handicapped 
students having 
benefited from 
access to specific 
education services 
through the 
project. ** 
Creation of an           Creation of a CERT  Creation of a CERT       CERT team of 8      CERT team and 3 
emergency                team in Nov. 2005,  team, and 3              persons, in 2005    trainings 
technology               and 3 trainings     trainings                CERT team of 16 
response team in         bbby end of 2005                             persons in 2008 
November 2005,                                                        3 training 
and mounting of 
three CERT training 
seminars or 
workshops before 
the end of 2005.  
Creation of a data       Test by end 2005        Back?up center       0                   Back?up center 
backup center for                                operational                              operational 
critical applications 
of the government, 
and tests at the 
end of 2005. 
Number of                                        220                  136                 178 
auditors with ANSI 
security 
certification 
(cumulative). 
Publication of           Publication of          2 publications       2 publications 
economic and             economic and                                 ready for WSIS 
statistical analyses     statistical analysis                         2005 
on the success of        on the eAgenda in 
the “e?agenda? at        Tunisia 
the WSIS in 
Tunisia. 




                                                             - 31 -
Component 1: strategy, policy and regulation in matters of ICT

This component aimed primarily at helping the Tunisian Government open up the ICT sector to
competition and private participation through three beginning activities defined in the loan
negotiations, which are the following:

      Master Plan for the Communication Technologies (ICT) sector
      Assistance in licensing grants
      Assistance to the regulation of the Telecommunications sector

As stated in the Loan Agreement, and during the mid-term review mission, a fourth activity was
proposed by the Ministry of Communication Technologies, entitled "Study on the Interaction of
Women & ICT", and validated by the Steering Committee and the World Bank. This activity
furnished indicators and an analysis that helped to highlight the interaction between Tunisian
women and the ICT sector, and also helped to answer international queries on this matter.

The four activities of this component have been completed and have achieved their specific
objectives with reasonable success:

Regarding the second activity (Assistance in granting licenses), it played an important role in
preparing for the granting of licenses, 2G, 3G, fixed and data to Orange Tunisie. Indeed, it
allowed the government to grant an unified license, a first in the North Africa region.

The project assistance to the regulation of the sector composed of studies, INT executives’
training, organization of workshops with stakeholders in the sector and mission assistance
provided satisfactory technical assistance, notably in unbundling the local loop and broadband
strategy, and strengthening the management capacity of INT, with the exception of a VAS study
which was partially completed due to cancelation on its third phase.

As for the strategic plan, its implementation experienced considerable delay especially in
procurement following the change of plans and the time involved in consultant selection
procedures. That has provided a strategic plan in seven strategic directions, which themselves
broke down into actions, initiatives and projects to achieve. However, given the new national
environment, fruit of the Tunisian revolution of January 14, 2011, it was decided to establish a
working group within the Ministry, to take stock of the results of the strategic plan, taking into
consideration the three following priorities:

      Liberalization of the ICT sector
      Job creation
      Equity and equilibrium among the regions of Tunisia

Component 2: strategy, services and applications of e-Government

This component's main objectives was to provide a comparative analysis and to develop a
strategy for e-Gov which is coordinated by the Secretariat of State for Administrative Reform,
and to develop applications and services in e-government ministries and government agencies in

                                               - 32 -
the following activities:

      Development of an e-government strategy
      E-justice
      E-Culture
      E-Handicapped
      Virtual library
      Establishment of a distance learning platform
      Arabized DNS
      E-Accessibility

Six operations were completed successfully and reached the expected goals, with the exception
of two activities: the distance learning platform and the virtual library.
Indeed, concerning the completed activities, and beginning with the e-Gov study which, despite
significant delays during the launch of the project and the selection of the consultant, succeeded
in defining the sectoral strategic plans with the project implementation of e-government with
clear quantified targets and timetables and deadlines that provided the roadmap to enable the
monitoring and assessment of objectives of the reforms in this field.

e-Justice and e-Culture were completed with delays in the execution, basically due to their
technical complexity and scope which were underestimated at the beginning -- during project
negotiations and even before the launch. However, this delay did not deny them success: The e-
Justice is a portal that can be considered a “model? and can even be compared on an
international scale. Currently, it provides monitoring services to court cases for citizens and
lawyers (17 types), separating the provision of forms and sample documents. Of the e-Culture
portal, the World Bank called it a "gateway to the most advanced cultural heritage in the Middle
East and North Africa" (Aide-Memoire: December 13-17, 2010 mission).

The e-Handicapped had remarkable results and it has allowed the dissemination a copy of a
model experience in new technologies for the access of the handicapped to innovative IT tools.
This component has enabled thousands of disabled children to improve their educational
performance, thanks to software developed in the framework of the project and brought in
special education centers. The Tunisian experience in this area is now studied the world over,
thanks to this component. This component is the subject of an article in a specialized publication
of great renown in Russian, and is regarded by many observers as a proven success.

For the Arabized DNS project, the implementation of this component can be described as
satisfactory. Currently, and following completion of this project, ATI plans to issue domain
names in three phases: first to governmental entities, then to large enterprises whose brands are
known, then to the rest of Tunisian businesses and the general public.

As for e-Accessibility, it was an activity that was added during the mission’s mid-term review as
required by the Loan Agreement, following a proposal by the Ministry of Communication
Technologies, which was validated by the steering committee and the World Bank. Its success
has produced results considered excellent for people with special needs. Within the framework of
this component, a national repository was developed for the definition of Web accessibility tools

                                               - 33 -
according to international standards in this field and five of the Tunisian administration pilot
sites were shaped by this national repository.

Finally, with regard to canceled and partially canceled activities, beginning with project distance
learning platform "which was canceled by mutual agreement with the World Bank and following
the approval of a project steering committee. This cancellation was decided upon given the
delay noted at the launch of the project, and owing to deficiency in terms of vision and human
resources allocated to this activity.

 The project "Virtual Library", was partially canceled by mutual agreement with the World Bank
and following the approval of a project steering committee, having experienced delay in its
execution. The scanning work was approved by the records office and acquisitions were canceled
and taken care of by the state budget within the framework of a decision that was made at the
Ministry on the sustainability of the project and its management by CIFODE'COM.

Component 3: E-security

This component aims to develop and implement a computer risk prevention strategy based on the
CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team) model, subject of the first activity, and to
strengthen research in electronic security through the third activity which consisted of
establishing a backup data center to ensure continuity of critical government applications. Indeed,
this component provides for the implementation of three activities (establishment of CERT, a
computer security laboratory, and a back-up data center), two of which were successfully
executed and the second (Computer Security Laboratory) was canceled by mutual agreement
with the World Bank and following the approval of a project steering committee, given the lack
of minimum conditions that would have ensured its quality execution and sustainability.

Concerning the first activity, it established the Tunisian CERT, the first African to be admitted to
the prestigious international network, FIRST, which is a regional and continental reference point
in this area. This activity gave Tunisia the opportunity to be a benchmark in the field of computer
security on a regional scale in the African Continent.

The third activity established a Centre National Back-Up which was completed with satisfaction
despite the delay in its execution stemming from the difficulties encountered in finding available
land and the delay in the selection a contractor to build the premises (activities supporled by the
state budget).

Created pursuant to the criteria and standards of safety, the Center will back-up central national
establishments that use important systems of information to ensure the continuity of their work
under optimum conditions. This Center will, as a first step, backup applications currently hosted
and operated at the Centre National de llnformation (CNI) and will later house other applications
based on their national and s’ectoral priorities. The center will ensure the availability of large
applications of the administration and continuity of services offered to users, and this, using the
back-up copies.




                                               - 34 -
Component 4: Project management and support it as preparation for the WSIS

This component aimed to provide technical assistance from the Government of Tunisia by:

      Supporting the preparation for the World Summit on the Information society (WSIS
       2005) through the first activity
      Strengthening the support of the statistical and economic analysis unit within the Ministry
       of Communication Technologies in the development and implementation and monitoring
       of its activities through the second activity
      Strengthening the Project Management Unit (PMU)

The efforts of support to the preparation of WSIS (2005) were performed within the timeframe
and met with remarkable success. The objectives assigned by the project were fully achieved.

The second activity (project “sector management") was partially met and saw the termination of
the relevant contract of the second phase of the project. To capitalize on the phases carried out
through the project, the Ministry intends to finance the third and fourth stages (development and
implementation of a database and training of the BD management team).
Finally, the last activity (strengthening of the PMU) allowed the strengthening of the PMU with
regard to awarding of work as directed by the World Bank, and management, audit and
evaluation of projects funded by international donors.

D-Conclusion:

Achievements in figures:

The figure in this project is as follows (Annexes to this document furnished with all required
details):
     Total number of contracts: 90 (29 studies services contracts, 46 contracts for the
        acquisition of equipment and 15 training contracts):
            o Contracts executed completely: 98%
            o Contracts partially executed: 2%
            o Disbursed Loan (on March 15, 2011): 6,665.26 Total mEuro
     Total disbursement on the loan (before April 30, 2011): 6,873.032 mEuro
     Disbursement rate commitments (on the Loan) on March 15, 2011: 97% (For the rest: 3%
        in progress)
     Amount of payments on March 15, 2011 % of total loans: 82.3%

The four project components have achieved their objectives and the performance indicators of
the project have been fully satisfied despite the relatively low disbursement rate which are
explained by the following elements:

1. The major change in the exchange rate during the period of implementation of the project
   2005-2010: Average of interbank market of the year 2004: 1 Euro = 1.5486 DT average of
   interbank market of year 2010: 1 Euro = 1.8972 DT


                                              - 35 -
2. The cost of contract impairment of ICT equipment

3. The estimated project cost was made based on the international market prices, while at
   implementation the number of local contractors was quite large; consequently, the fees and
   equipment costs are lower when compared to the forecasts.

Recommendations and lessons learned:

Following a meeting of the steering committee at project completion (see Minutes of the steering
committee in Appendix E.4.), those present highlighted the lessons learned from their projects’
experience and underlined the support of the World Bank to these projects.

Indeed, for the project of creating a Tunisian CERT, its indirect impact is the creation of SSII
(société de services en ingénierie informatique) specializing in computer security, possessing of
skills that are well-qualified in the field, the result of the activity, "Training Trainers in
Information Security. It is also worth noting that support of the World Bank in this activity is
considerable and especially the procurement of equipment and specialized software which,
perhaps, would not have been achieved without the involvement of the World Bank as donor to
this project, which gives some confidence, especially after the event of September 11. A
recommendation of the installed CERT project head is to give priority to projects that ensure a
transfer of competence and the obtaining of international certifications, or new funding for an
ICT project by the World Bank .

The same scenario applies to the proposed assistance to the granting of licenses and the INT
projects which, having the World Bank as a financial backer, gives some assurance that the
consultants of international renown and qualified expertise in specialized areas of ICT (Canadian
consultants and German) who have not previously had the opportunity to work with the Tunisian
administration were able to acquire contracts under the project. Consequently, this allowed us to
benefit from high-quality expertise in these projects.

It is also to be noted that for the granting fixed licenses, the World Bank gave the project added
value by putting at the Tunisian government's disposal its expertise in this field and the
experience of countries like Tunisia. For Arabized DNS which was completed successfully and
is based primarily on the implementation of a technical solution not yet standardized, one of the
lessons learned from this experience is that financing by a World Bank loan of a research project
or of technical standards are rare or nonexistent; it is inappropriate given that such projects
demand flexibility in implementation, something not easy with the application of procurement
procedures of World Bank.




                                              - 36 -
                        Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

ICT strategy – 2001 - World Bank Group
ICT Policy Note – March 2002 - Government of Tunisia, World Bank
10th Development Plan (2002-2006) – Government of Tunisia

Project implementation documents




                                          - 37 -
 Annex 8. Performance Indicators
        Project Indicators               End?2004      End?2005      End?2006               End?2007          End?2008       End?2009        End?2010 
Growth of ICT        PAD Forecast           6%
Sector in the 
GDP (CAS               Forecast  
Indicator)                                                                                                      8.5%                           12% 
                    Old methodology 
                                                                                                                                                      
                        Actual 
                                                                                                                                                      
                    Old methodology 
                                                                                                                10%                            12% 
                        New 
                                                         4.3%           4.7%                   5%               5.6%           6.3%            6.8% 
                     methodology 
Granting of 2                                                                                                   2 new 
                     PAD Forecast          0?2                                                                                                    
new licenses                                                                                                  licenses 
in 2004?2005                                  
in the VSAT                                                                                                                   2  fixed        2  fixed 
                                          1  fixed      1  fixed      1  fixed               1  fixed        1  fixed  
segments and                                                                                                                  2 VSAT          2 VSAT 
                                          2 VSAT        2 VSAT        2 VSAT                 2 VSAT          2 VSAT 
data                    Actual                                                                                                 3 GSM           3 GSM 
                                          2 GSM         2 GSM         2 GSM                  2 GSM           2 GSM 
transmissions.                                                                                                             1 license 3G    1 license 3G 
                                       (cumulative)  (cumulative)  (cumulative)           (cumulative)    (cumulative) 
                                                                                                                           (cumulative)    (cumulative) 
Number of            PAD Forecast          36%                                                                 60%                             109%
fixed and                                     
mobile phone 
lines in % of 
                        Actual           49.5%          68.8%         84.5%                  88,8%            94.8%          105.6%           118% 
the 
population.  
Increase in ICT      PAD Forecast          40%                                                                 60%
investment by                                 
the private 
                        Actual           54.4%           46%           52 %                   72%              64%             65%             72% 
sector. 
Implement?                                                                                                2 operational 
                     PAD Forecast           0+                            
ation of 2                                                                                                   portals 
government                                    

                                                                                 - 38 -
online portals 
in November 
2005 and two                                                                                                 1 prototype 
additional                                                                                                    (E?culture) 
                     Actual           0         0        0                     1+    2 prototypes                                       2 operational 
portals at the                                                                                                      
end of the                                                                                             1 operational (E?Justice) 
project in 
2008. 
Number of         PAD Forecast          
portal access                           
put in                                                                                                 E?Justice: 3,018 in 
                     Actual                               
place.**                                                                                               November 2009                          ? 
Number of         PAD Forecast          
downloads                               
per year.**                                                                                            E?Justice: 24,960 
                     Actual                                                                            (during the period June?               ? 
                                                                                                       November 2009) 
Number of         PAD Forecast         ?                                                                                             
handicapped 
                                        
students 
having 
benefited                                                                             3,201 (21% 
from access to                                                                        of handi?        7,000 (53% of handi? 
specific             Actual            ?         ?      600           1,245           capped           capped children in the       8,370 
education                                                                             children in      centers) 
services                                                                              the centers) 
through the 
project. ** 
Creation of an                                                                        A team of 16, 
                                  Core  team 
emergency         PAD Forecast                                                           with 3                                                
                                  exists 
technology                                                                              trainings 
response                                                                                      




                                                                 - 39 -
team in 
November 
2005, and 
mounting of                                    Core  team     Core  team 
                                                                                                     A team of 16, 
three CERT                        Core  team  exists  (8p)    exists  (14p) 
                     Actual                                                           Team of 16p        with 3       Team of 16p    Team of 16p 
training                          exists (3p)  plus  one      plus      one 
                                                                                                       trainings 
seminars or                                    training       training 
workshops 
before the 
end of 2005.  
Creation of a     PAD Forecast        0+
data backup                             
center for 
critical 
applications 
of the 
                     Actual            0            0               0                      0               0               0              1 
government, 
and tests at 
the end of 
2005. 
Number of         PAD Forecast              ?                                                               220
auditors with            
ANSI security 
certification        Actual                 0         31             103                  128             136               136          178 
(cumulative). 
Publication of 
                  PAD Forecast              0                             
economic and 
statistical                                                                                                                                     
analyses on 
the success of 
                                                                                                                                           
the “e?
                     Actual                 0            2               2                      2               2               2          
agenda? at 
                                                                                                                                         2 
the WSIS in 
Tunisia. 

 ** indicators defined at midterm review


                                                                             - 40 -
           Annex 8. eApplications supported by the project, and CERT
                                    eJustice

Through Tunisia ICT Sector Development Project, the Tunisian Ministry of Justice and
the Ministry of Communication Technologies made a significant step towards a more
open government platform, laying the crucial foundation for new, more democratic
egovernment initiative.
The eJustice portal was officially launched in October 2009, before the European Union
launched its own eJustice portal. By November 2009, the Tunisian eJustice portal had
9952 page visits and 5158 downloads. Only two months after its launch, 397 lawyers
registered already on the portal, which is 6.6% of all lawyers in the country.
The eJustice portal in Tunisia is exemplary and could be considered a reference for other
countries in the region. The portal provides citizens, lawyers with various services such
as: follow-up affairs (17 types), downloadable official forms and 30 models of court
applications. This new space gives litigators and lawyers the opportunity to monitor
reported cases and obtain information on matters affecting them in the last five years. The
eJustice portal also offers a judicial map, which provides online information about the
courts in different regions of the country with their creation date and address.
The Tunisia ICT Sector Development Project through the eJustice portal and other
egovernment components contributed to improving the exchange within public
administration at the central, regional and local levels, and strengthened the capacity of
civil servants.
Through the Project, the Tunisian government successfully upgraded the technological
platform to enable the e-administration development. The Project implementation
ensured the interoperability between national and sectoral computer applications and
enhanced the use of common standards and references.

                                       e-Disabled

Tunisia’s Ministry of Social Affairs, Solidarity and Tunisians Abroad (Ministere des
Affaires Sociales, de la Solidarite et des Tunisiens a l’Etranger, MASSTE) estimates that
the population of disabled persons in Tunisia reaches about 152,000 inhabitants out of a
population of 10,458,000; about 1.5%. This group subdivides into 43% of citizens with a
motor disability, 28% with a mental disability, 13% with a visual disability, 12% with a
hearing disability, and 4% with multiple disabilities.8 According to MASSTE, the better
socio-economic results are in any given region, the lower the prevalence of disability
tends to be.




8
    INS and MASSTE



                                            1
Tunisia – through the ICT Sector Development Project – delivered a major success
among the disabled, in particular for children with mental or hearing disability. Investing
in ICT can boost the learning of children with disabilities and facilitate their integration
in the economic and social life. For these benefits to materialize, the necessary
infrastructure and services need to be established and adapted to the users’ abilities. A
local software company developed specialized software with a series of courses targeting
the needs of disabled children, affected by mental and learning disabilities. In 2009,
5,000 disabled children followed digital courses. Starting school year 2009, these
programs have been generalized to all special education centers with a computer room
and to all normal schools that integrate disabled children.
The ICT Sector Development Project also succeeded in establishing telecenters for
people with disabilities. Since March 2010, there are a total of 24 centers, which are
diffused all over the country, one per each region. These centers include equipment with
Braille keyboards or touch screen and with sign language and various multiple functions.
Last, the ICT Sector Development Project also promoted nation-wide eAccessibility by
ensuring the compatibility of all major websites of the government with the W3C/WAI
standards to enable disabled citizens to access egovernment services.
The project demonstrated that civil society, NGOs and the social sector can be a good
partner for the diffusion of ICT for people with disability. The experience of Tunisia also
shows the benefits of a centralized, planned approach – especially if the ambition is to
develop mass applications and reach the various regions of the country. The “know how?
developed in this project presents a successful example for other countries in the area of
technical solutions but most importantly in the area of the fine0tuning, coordination and
management of technology.


                                     Back-up Center

The Back-up Center is a critical component to a successful eGovernment platform in
Tunisia. It was created based on international standards to enable national institutions that
use major information systems to continuously perform their work under the best
conditions. The Center serves as a backup and hosts applications that are currently being
developed at the National Center for Information Technology (CNI) ensuring the
availability of large applications, supports administration and the continuity of services
for users. In the future, the Center will also house other applications - according to
national and sector priority.

The delivery of the Center took longer than the originally set deadline due to the
complexity of the structure to ensure successful performance and commercial viability.

                                         e-Culture

The eCulture component of the Tunisia ICT Sector Development Project is designed to
be the most advanced cultural heritage site in the Middle East and North Africa. It will


                                             2
highlight the country’s rich cultural history in English, French and Arabic, and help boost
much-needed tourism when the internal political and security situation is stabilized.
Although the eCulture portal was created within the Project timeframe, due to the
country’s uprising and shifts in the government, it has not been made public by the time
of writing this report. The full delivery of the component to the public will likely take
place after the new Ministries of Culture, Industry and Telecommunications resume their
normal work organization. and will get the opportunity to review it in light of the political
reforms in the country. With the new regime, the contents of the portal can be even richer
and more open than before.
The eCulture portal shows the common historic roots and achievements of the Tunisian
people, which is especially critical at a time when there is great need for national unity. In
addition, it is also a representative tool for the Tunisian government to attract tourism
which has dramatically dropped due to the revolution and regional upheaval.




                                           CERT



                                              3
With the increase of the use of the Internet in Tunisia and its intended use for critical
functions from one side, and from the other side, the progressive evolution of intruder
techniques and the increased complexity of attacks and their damage, it has become
important to establish a Tunisian Computer Emergency Response Team “tunCERT? -
Formerly known under CERT/TCC- that provides global (National and Regional) support
for addressing computer security issues.

         Considering the effective cooperation of the World Bank and favor in its
established efforts in the field since June 2004, at present the TUNISIAN CERT is the
Only African CERT member of the FIRST (Forum for Incident Response Team) since
Mai 2007.
The Tunisian CERT works with the international and national community in detecting
and resolving computer security incidents, as well as taking steps to prevent incidents. In
particular:

      Provides a reliable, trusted, 24-hour, single point of contact for emergencies, in
       order to respond to security incidents, to limit damage and ensure continuity of
       critical services in spite of successful attacks, accidents, or failures
       (“survivability?),
      Provides high level training and Tunisian Certification for professional, to
       improve the security of national systems,
      Initiates proactive measures to increase awareness and understanding of
       information security and computer security issues throughout the community of
       network users,
      Help ensure that appropriate technology and systems management practices are
       used to protect national information systems,
      Facilitates communication among professional and experts working in the
       security field.

       The Tunisian CERT is placed under the management of the “Agence Nationale de
   la Sécurité Informatique? (A.N.S.I oo NACS : the National Agency for Computer
   Security).

       For the preparations for World cup 2010, NACS supported South Africa in the
   establishment and set up its CERT and to implement its CSIRT (Computer Security
   Incident Response Team) by developing the different services such as reactive
   services, proactive services and security quality management services.

Areas of activity

Incident Handling and assistance

       Contributing to our broad view of the state of security is the information that
reported to A.N.S.I, accordingly to the law (law n° 2004-5 of the 3 February 2004),
private and public organizations should trust us and provides us with sensitive
information about security compromises and network vulnerabilities because we are


                                            4
obliged, by law, to keep their identities and other sensitive information confidential. We
are also able to be neutral, enabling us to work with commercial competitors and
government agencies without bias.
        The hotline installed permits reporting of computer security incidents or
requesting information and support. Therefore, our TUNISIAN CERT staff regularly
works with sites to help them for computer security incident and try to establish an
efficient and quite-automated incident-reporting system.

       The Tunisian Cert tries to motivate the establishment of corporate Computer
Security Incident Response Teams (CSIRT) inside the sensitive and big corporations and
provides guidance and training to those teams (partially in Tunisia and mostly in foreign
centers).

        In our vulnerability and incident handling activities, Cert Staff assign a higher
priority to attacks and vulnerabilities that directly affect the Internet and corporate
telecommunication infrastructures.

Information, Alert, Education and Awareness

   B   Vulnerability alert: One of our tasks is to analyze the state of Internet security
       and convey that information to the system administrators, network managers, and
       wide public in the Internet community .This TUNISIAN CERT monitors sources
       of vulnerability information and regularly sends reports and alerts on those
       vulnerabilities (mailing-lists, publication on the web site). We analyze the
       potential vulnerability and try to work with other CERTs and technology
       producers to track the solutions to these problems.
   C   We note that the registration in the mailing-list is customized by profile’s type
       (Microsoft, Linux, Cisco, SQL, etc.) to help meet the needs and attends of all
       subscribers.
   D   Information: To increase awareness of security issues and help organizations
       improve the security of their systems, we collect and disseminate information
       through multiple channels (telephone and mailing-lists, World Wide Web site,
       brochures and Knowledgebase publicly accessible).
   E   Publications: we develop and publish free electronic publications to shows
       administrators how to protect systems and networks against malicious and
       inadvertent compromise.




                                            5
                          Number of Messages & Publications




                 Evolution of number of the subscribers in Mailing-List

   B   Media information: We work with the news media, and give them the necessary
       information material and support to raise the awareness of a broad population to
       the risks they face on the Internet and steps they can take to protect themselves.
       We assist journalists and more of 15 articles per year who concerns the IT
       security on the local newspapers, and we participate on periodic animation in
       national and regional Radios and in the TV programs.
   C
   D   Presentations: We give presentations at National and International conferences,
       workshops, and meetings, as an excellent way to help attendees and Speak about
       the Tunisian experience in the field. We participate in more 95 National and 25
       International conferences, workshops, and meetings.

Training

Among the objective of Tunisian Cert is the training of the skills and the trainers
specialized in the advanced domains of the IT security, and in this frame we have realized
several training courses (with MisTrainig, HSC, Auditewere) that succeeded more than
100 trainers, to improve the security and survivability of information system.




                                            6
The topics (trainees’ courses) are the following:
   - Network perimeter security technics (Secure architectures, Firewalls, IDS, secure
       dial-up servers, content gateways and proxies, ..),
   - Network inside security organization and technics (security policy development,
       security plan development, tools: Distributed firewalls, Anti-virus gateways, PKI,
       ..),
   - Secure application development and hosting technics,
   - Survivable network technologies, for preserving essential services if a system is
       penetrated and compromised,
   - Technical basis for intrusion prevention (identifying and preventing intrusions
       and security flaws),
   - Technical basis for Incident handling,
   - ISO 2700X and ISO 1 9011,
   - CBK course,
   - …

We also develop a Tunisian Certification course for security professionals (Auditors) and
build and setup with national academic institutions training programs (masters’
professionals).

Enterprise support (security self-assessment)

        For the purpose of helping organizations protect and defend themselves, we gives
support for some risk self assessments methodologies that help enterprises identify and
characterize critical information assets and then identify risks to those assets. This gives
enterprises an efficient tool for identifying risk in their networked systems and keeping
up with changes over time and uses the results of those assessments to develop or refine
their overall strategy for securing their networked systems.
By our Hotline and E-mail, we treat monthly, more than 350 calls receipt and more of 50
demand of assistance.

Participation in International organizations

        With financing of the World Bank, at present, we are recognized on the
International field and we are member of the FIRST and we occupy General Secretary's
post of the OIC-Cert, and we try to take up an African and Arabic Cert.




                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33500R

38°N                                                            8°E                                                                      10°E                                                         12°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sicily
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                  M e d iterranean                                                         Sea
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (ITALY)
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                 La Galite                                                                            St
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                              ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                it
                                                                                                                                         Bizerte
                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                  BIZE RT
                                                                                                                  BIZ ERT
                                                                                                                  BIZERT E
                                                                                                                                                    Gulf of Tunis
                                                                         Tabarka                              .                                                                                                              Si
                                                                                             s          Mts                                  ARIANA
                                                                                                                                                   L'Ariana                                                                       ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ly
                                           To
                                         Algiers                                        Atla                                                       TUNIS                                                      Pantelleria
                                                                                                          Beja                                                  NABEUL                                        (ITALY)
                                                                       JENDOUBA                                                                    Ben Arous
                                       To                               Jendouba
                                                                                                          BE JA
                                                                                                          BEJ A                                 BEN AROUS
                                      Sétif                                                                                                                           Nabeul
                                                                                     ue                                                            Zaghouan
                                                                                   eg
                                                                               ell                                            ZAGHOUAN
                                                                             M
                                                                                                    SIL IANA                                                  Gulf of Hammamet
36°N                                                                                Le Kef                         Siliana                                                                                                                        36°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Isole Pelagie
                                                                            KE
                                                                         LE KEF                                                                     SOUSSE                                                             (ITALY)
                                                                                                                                                                    Sousse
                                       To
                                      Sétif                                                                                                     Kairouan                Monastir

                                                                                        Thala                                                                       MONASTIR                                                      Lampedusa
                                                                                                                     KAIROUAN                                                                                                       (ITALY)
                                                                       KASSERINE                                                    ud
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mahdia
                                                                          El                                                      ro                  MAHDIA
                                                                                                                              Ze
            ALGERIA                                                            Ha
                                                                                  teb                                                                 El Djem
                                                         Jabal ash Shanabi
                                                                  (1544 m)                Kasserine                      Sidi
                                                                                                                         Bou Zid

                                                                                                        SIDI BOU                                   SFAX
                                                                                                           ZID                                                            Sfax
                                                                                                                                                                                      Kerkenna
                                                                         GAFSA                                                                                Maharès
                                                                                                                                                                                      Islands                  Mediterr an e an
                                                                          Gafsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea
                                                                                                                                                Skhira
                                                                                                                                                     Gulf of
34°N                                                                                                                                                 Gabes                                                                                        34°N
                                                      Tozeur                                                                                                               Houmt Souk
                                                                                                                                                 Gabes
                                                TOZEUR                                                                        El Hamma                                            Djerba
                                                                  Chott el Jerid                                                                                                  Island
                       To                                                                        Kebili                   GABES
                    Touggourt
                                                                                                                                                                                     Zarzis
                                                                                                                                                      MEDENINE
                                                                                                                                            Medenine
                                                                          KEBILI

                                                                                                                                                              Tataouine

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                         Al
                                                                                                                                                              -Ji                                                  Tripoli
                                                                                                                                                                    far
      0      25        50       75    100 Kilometers                                                                                                                      ah
                                                                                                                                                                               Pla
                                                                                                                              TATAOUINE                                              in
      0           25             50           75 Miles                                                                                          Remada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                L I B YA
                                                                                                                              g
                                                                                                                         Er
32°N                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                 ter
                                                                                                                                                      Dehibat                                          To
                                                                                                             s                                                                                       Mizdah
                                                          8°E
                                                                                                        Ea
                                                                                                    t
                                                                                               ea
                                                                                          Gr
                                                                                                         El Borma


                  TUN I S I A                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                           Dirj



                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

                   RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                            TUNISIA
                   MAIN ROADS

                   RAILROADS

                   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                               30°N
                                                                                                                                         10°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JANUARY 2007
