Report No. PID6727
Project Name                     Morocco-Pilot Fisheries Development (@+) ...
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Rural Development
Project ID                       MAPE52247
Borrower                         Kingdom of Morocco (Ministry of Fisheries)
Implementing
Agency                           Ministry of Marine Fisheries (Momf)
Contact                          Mr. Mostapha Faik, Inspecteur general
Ministere des peches maritimes
Nouveau quartier administratif
Haut Agdal - B.P. 476, Rabat
Tel: 212-7-68 83 34
Fax: 212-7-7-68 31 34/35
Date Of This Pid                 October 6, 1998
Appraisal                        July 13, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 10, 1998
Background
The fishing industry plays a key role in Morocco's economy. With a long
coastline, the waters of the exclusive fishing zone (Exclusive Economic Zone,
EEZ) in the Eastern Central Atlantic Ocean and in the Mediterranean Sea, are
among the richest in the world, holding large stocks of schooling surface-
swimming pelagic, or blue fish, and of demersal, or bottom-dwelling fish and
cephalopods (various white fish, squid, octopus and cuttlefish). Data
containing biomass and annual catches are incomplete, but it was estimated in
1996 that the annual catch from Moroccan waters was approximately 1 million
tons, with an average annual growth rate of 15t over the last five years. Over
recent years, the fisheries sector has gained importance for economic and
social reasons. It is estimated to contribute roughly 19t of total exports
(200,000 tons in 1997 with a total value of $US 710 million), 60t of the
agricultural exports, and employs over 75,000 full time and some 20-30,000
part time persons.
The key sector issues can be summarized as follows: (a) the fisheries sector
in Morocco is not effectively adjusted to on-going liberalization; (b) public
and private institutional performance in delivering cost-effective fisheries
services has been poor; (c) high sector growth has emphasized competitiveness
at the expense of employment creation; and (d) increasing pressure on fish
resources threatens the sustainability of several species.
The Government has developed its sector strategy to address these issues
through five specific activities: (a) improving knowledge of fish stocks and
pursuing sustainable resource management; (b) reducing direct public
intervention (prices, tariffs) in coastal fisheries and the processing
industry while promoting private investment and restructuring; (c) promoting
institutional reform by targeting and strengthening the public role in areas



such as technology development, training and policy analysis; (d) supporting
private sector empowerment by establishing Maritime Chambers and launching
joint activities such as the fleet modernization programs; and (e) improving
existing port infrastructure and expanding infrastructure available for small-
scale fisheries.
Project Objectives
The proposed project would contribute to enhance value added and
competitiveness of the fisheries sector. More specifically, the project
development objectives would be to: (a) strengthen MOMF capacity to manage and
develop the fishing sector; and (b) support development along the marketing
chain (filiOre) at three pilot sites.
Project Description
The proposed project is a pilot which will be implemented over a period of
three years to assist the Government to prepare and implement its medium term
strategy to enhance sector value added and competitiveness. The project would
therefore aim to address the most pressing sector issues through two main
components: (a) institutional development to strengthen the ability of MOMF to
manage and develop the fishing sector; and (b) pilot operations to enhance
value added and competitiveness in the fishing sector, through intervention in
three pilot sites (Tantan, Nador and Tanger) at all critical points in the
production/marketing chain.
Project Cost and Financing
Total project cost is currently estimated at US$16.0 million, with a Bank loan
tentatively placed at
US$ 5.2 million and with Government and beneficiaries contribution estimated
to US$10.8 million.
Implementation
The MOMF's General Inspectorate would be responsible for overall project
implementation. Implementation of individual components would involve the
central department within MOMF, as well as other organizations, including the
National Fisheries Authority (ONP), National Fisheries Research Institute
(INRH), and local professional associations.
Sustainability
Beneficiaries' involvement would be an important contribution to project
sustainability, and the project would seek, at the local level, professional
associations' active involvement in the three pilot ports.
Lessons learned from previous Bank involvement
World Bank experience in Marine Fisheries Projects indicates that: (a) the
development of labor intensive catching technologies can be highly effective
in a situation such as that in Morocco; (b) the development of new adapted
catching technology requires targeted public research support, notably in
labor intensive small-scale and coastal fisheries, and close cooperation with
the fishermen groups involved; (c) port users need to play a clearly defined
- 2-



role in management of fishing ports; (d) effective fish quality control
requires a well balanced synergy between public control mechanisms and private
sector action, and staff training; and (e) the entire fishery system needs to
be explicitly considered in planning fishing port infrastructure.
Rationale for Bank involvement
The Bank's involvement in analytical and strategy work, particularly in the
canning industry and in a wide range of other activities in Morocco, put it in
a unique position to assist MOMF undertake this work. The MOMF has expressed
interest in continued Bank involvement and the Bank would, in the proposed
project, support this request through: (a) contribution of critical
international experience and perspective; (b) provision of relevant expertise
for structuring the sector policy framework to address long-term needs, such
as, fish resource allocations, value added, employment and export incomes; and
(c) its close relationships with key donors, and would act as an instrument to
involve them as partners in a joint program for fisheries development and
institutional capacity building, and at the same time ensure synergy with
ongoing TA.
Program Objective Category
The Project fits into the Environmentally Sustainable Development Program
Objective Category. It aims to enhance sector value added and competitiveness
in a sustainable manner.
Environmental aspects
The project has been rated in the environmental screening category "B".     No
major environmental issues are foreseen, instead, the environmental impact of
the project is expected to be strongly positive (see environmental annex
attached).
Project Benefits
The main benefits from the three pilot areas, would be: (a) higher quality
fish and improved productivity for the processing industry resulting in higher
value added, increased fishermen income, and greater job security; (b)
enhanced quality control and port infrastructure management;
(c) reorganization and development of a more competitive fish processing
sector, better oriented to export markets; and (d) a strengthened small-scale
fisheries sub-sector focusing on high value, fresh fish products, and
enhancing rural income and employment opportunities.
Project Risks
Risks which could impede success of the project include: (a) lack of adoption
of new technologies by boat owners, which would be countered by performing on-
boat demonstrations accesible to beneficiaries; and (b) inadequate
collaboration of stakeholders, which would be reduced by consolidating
dialogue at the port level between the Administration and industry local
representatives.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 3-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 6, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Annex
No major environmental issues are foreseen, instead, the environmental impact
of the project is expected to be strongly positive, especially in the field of
food safety and quality management since a quality assurance component to meet
EU standards for sea food exports will be financed under the project.
However, the project will monitor possible environmental drawbacks and propose
adequate mitigation measures including: (a) use of ozone depleted substance
(ODS) free refrigeration equipment complying with the Montreal Protocol in new
designs for coastal vessels using refrigeration technology; (b) connection of
wastewater discharge from the rehabilitated auction halls to urban waste
water; and (c) inclusion, in the feasibility study, of a waste management plan
which will address any increase in solid waste at the fish auction halls and
landing facilities. In addition, for each of the pilot fish auction hall, MOMF
will monitor the amount of the solid matter entering the sea to ensure that
the quality of water is of an acceptable standard.
- 5 -



