Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4464-MOR
Loan Agreement
(Pilot Fisheries Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 29, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4464-MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1999, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as 
amended through December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Dirham" and “DH" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
“DPMA” means the directorate of marine fisheries and aquaculture 
within MPM;
(c)
“Environmental Analysis” means environmental impact analysis on the 
Construction and development works related to the five improved landing 
facilities, including wastewater and solid waste;
(d)
“Euro” and “EUR” means the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European Union that adopt a single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union;
(e)
“IG” means MOMF’s general inspectorate unit;
(f)
“JMC” means the informal Joint Management Committee, comprising  
MOMF staff, professional associations and members of the local fisheries 
committees, entrusted with establishing management mechanisms for Pilot Auction 
Halls, as hereinafter defined;
(g)
“LFC” means the local fisheries committees established and 
operating under Decree No. 2-58-783 dated October 22, 1958;
(h)
“MOMF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Marine Fisheries (Ministère 
Chargé des Pêches Maritimes) or any successor thereto;
(i)
"ONP" means Office National des Pêches established and operating 
under Dahir 1-69-45 dated February 21, 1969, as amended by Dahir 1-96-99 dated 
July 29, 1996;
(j)
“Pilot Auction Halls” mean the fish auction halls selected for the 
Project and located in the Borrower’s provinces of Tangiers, Tan Tan and Nador;
(k)
“PPU” means the Planning and Programming Unit established within 
the general secretariat of MOMF, responsible for monitoring and coordinating the 
Project;
(l)
“Project Area” means the ports of Tan Tan, Nador and Tangiers, and 
any other area as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(o)
“Steering Committee” means a Committee established within MOMF with 
the task of guiding the preparation and the implementation of the Project; and
(p)
“WAU” means a women advancement unit established within MOMF and 
responsible for promoting the role of women in the fisheries sector and 
entrusted with the setting up of a medium-term action plan for their social and 
economic development.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
four million and six hundred thousand Euro (EUR4,600,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dirham a special deposit account in its General Treasury on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal 
to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On, or promptly after the 
effective date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, 
and after the initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest 
Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Euro for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three fourth of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the 
Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the 
Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
Page  4
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the 
Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
Have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section 
including those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
Furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
Page  5
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
Furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
Maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
Retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
Enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
Ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system 
for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than six (6) months 
after the effectiveness of this Agreement, or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and (B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified; namely, that a situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project or a significant part 
thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Avenue Mohamed V
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
36715
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  7
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Euro Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   1,000,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   1,640,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory costs), and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
   1,460,000
100%
and training
(4)
Fee
      46,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
     454,000
TOTAL
   4,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of EUR460,000 may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2, and 3, on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 
1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works, services 
and training under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent for works and 
goods, $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for 
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in strengthening 
its capacity to manage and develop the fisheries sector and testing, on a pilot 
basis, new approaches to enhance value added and competitiveness in the 
fisheries sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Carrying out of the following two studies related to the decentralization 
and restructuring of the fisheries sector: (a) study on administrative 
reorganization and institutional coordination, and (b) study on the financing of 
the fisheries sector.
2.
Development of information systems and improvement of integrated 
management processes through computer equipment acquisition for three (3) 
regional delegations of MPM; and carrying out of studies for the setting up of 
decision-making tools.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and computer to strengthen MPM planning 
capacity through the establishment of PPU and WAU.
Part B:
Support to Fisheries’ Sector Development in the Project Area
1.
Support to the upgrading of the traditional coastal fleet through the 
provision of technical assistance for: (a) assessment and follow up of the 
modernization program; (b) carrying out of a study on registration of vessels 
and security aboard vessels in the traditional fisheries’ sector; (c) 
preparation of a handbook on good practices aboard vessels; and (d) provision of 
support to DPMA through training, studies and technical assistance.
2.
Improving conditions for fish landing including: (a) the building of four 
(4) improved landing facilities, (b) the supply of one mobile fishing center, 
and (c) the financing of related feasibility and environmental analysis studies.
3.
Improvement of marketing conditions around the Pilot Auction Halls 
through: (a) provision of handling and unloading equipment; (b) provision of 
technical assistance for (i) defining LFC statutes and mission; (ii) 
establishing a new charter for Pilot Auction Halls exploitation and support to 
their management including the establishment of the JMC; (c) establishment of a 
network for fish freshness measurement; and (d) establishment of marketing good 
practices guides targeted at fishermen and fishing boats sailors.
4.
Promoting fish products through: (a) the establishment and implementation 
of a training program for women working in fisheries factories; (b) the 
preparation of a good practices guide for processing factories; and (c) the 
setting up of a promotion program for fisheries products.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Euro)*
December 15, 2004
115,000
Page  9
June 15, 2005
115,000
December 15, 2005
120,000
June 15, 2006
120,000
December 15, 2006
125,000
June 15, 2007
125,000
December 15, 2007
130,000
June 15, 2008
130,000
December 15, 2008
135,000
June 15, 2009
135,000
December 15, 2009
140,000
June 15, 2010
140,000
December 15, 2010
145,000
June 15, 2011
145,000
December 15, 2011
150,000
June 15, 2012
155,000
December 15, 2012
155,000
June 15, 2013
160,000
December 15, 2013
160,000
June 15, 2014
165,000
December 15, 2014
170,000
June 15, 2015
170,000
December 15, 2015
175,000
June 15, 2016
180,000
December 15, 2016
180,000
June 15, 2017
185,000
December 15, 2017
190,000
June 15, 2018
190,000
December 15, 2018
195,000
June 15, 2019
200,000
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, 
except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and  August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may, 
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
Page  10
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been agreed 
with the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance and training under Part B of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for short term technical assistance under the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
Page  11
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
agreed with the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Responsibility for overall Project implementation shall be vested with IG.
2.
Responsibility for overall Project coordination shall be vested with the 
PPU. The Borrower shall maintain the PPU under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank and shall provide it, at all times, with such qualified staff, 
including three (3) specialists in economics, statistics and fisheries, 
functions and authorities as to enable it to carry out the aforementioned 
responsibility.
3.
Responsibility for Project monitoring and supervision shall be vested with 
the Steering Committee. The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee 
through the duration of the Project.
4.
Activities under Part B.3 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement shall commence 
after constructions of the Pilot Auction Halls has started. The Borrower shall 
cause ONP to start building Pilot Fish Auction Halls in the following sequence: 
Nador, not later than June 30, 1999; Tan Tan no later than December 31, 1999; 
and Tangiers not later than December 31 2000.
5.
MOMF shall designate a manager for WAU no later than December 31, 1999, 
under terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that the feasibility studies, including the 
Environmental Analysis, referred to in Part B, paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with terms of reference agreed 
with the Bank. Such environmental analysis shall include an environmental 
assessment of the five (5) improved landing facilities as well as a plan, agreed 
with the Bank, for the mitigation of the potential negative impact on the 
environment.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Bank the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
Page  12
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, and 3 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
EUR550,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to EUR350,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of EUR1,800,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals, as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
Page  13
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  14
