Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7230-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IDP-III)
June 28, 1988
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department 1
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee
Sii Lanka has a flexible exchange rate system. For the proposed IDP-III the
following rates prevailing during appraisal in December 31, 1987 have been
used:
US$1            =  SLRs 30
SLRs 1          =  US$0.03
FISCAL YEARS
GOSL                                                   =   January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks                                       =   January 1 to December 31
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)    =   April 1 to March 31
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)                January 1 to December 31



ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        -         Asian Development Bank
AWPR       -         Average Weighted Prime Rate
BOC        -         Bank of Ceylon
BTT        -         Business Turnover Tax
BMR        -        Balancing, Modernizing and Rehabilitation
CB         -        Commercial Banks
CBOC       -         Commercial Bank of Ceylon
CBSL       -         Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CDIC       -         Capital Development and Investment Corporation
CISIR      -         Ceylon Institute of Scientific & Indestrial Re:earch
DFCC       -         Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
EDB        -         Export Development Board
EPR        -         Effective Protection Rates
ERR        -         Economic Rate of Return
ETF        -         Employees Trust Fund
FCB        -         Foreign Commercial Banks
FIAC       -         Foreign Investment Advisory Committee
CCEC       -         Greater Colombo Economic Commission
COSL       -         Government of Sri Lanka
HNB        -         Hatton National Bank
IDB        -         Industrial Development Board
IPS        -         Industrial Policy Statement
LIAC       -         Local Investment Advisory Committee
MISA       -         Ministry of Industry and Scientific Affairs
NCB        -         Nationalized Commercial Banks
NDB        -         National De-elopment Bank of Sri Lanka
NERDC      -         National Engineering & Research Development Centre
NSB        -         National Savings Bank
NTC        -         National Telecommunications Commission
PB         -         Peoples Bank
PCI        -         Participating Credit Institutions
PMEs       -         Public Manufacturing Enterprises
SB         -         Sampath Bank
SLSI       -         Sri Lanka Standardization Institute
SMI        -         Small and Medium Industries
TBR        -         Treasury Bill Rate
TIPR       -         Trade and Industrial Policy Reform
TOR        -         Terms of Reference
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial dutles. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankt authorization.



SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Credit and Project Summary ...     ...............................    iii-v
I.      INTRODUCTION  ..o.........  oo.oo... oo.o.. oo..o.............     1
II.     THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ... o   ..............................oooo   2
A.  Economic Setting .o.o...o.o.o... *........... * .................  2
B.  Structure and Performance ....*oo...o.......*..*...**.*.      3
C.  GOSL'S Program for Industrial Development .......*o.*.oo      4
- Objectives and Strategy for Industrial Development ..      4
- Overall Assessment of Intentions and Progress   .......    5
- The IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) ........      8
III.    INDUSTRIAL FINANCING so ..... .........o  ... ...*...o...........  8
A.  The Financial System *......,       ..........................  8
B.  Investment Demand .......... .. . .. . . .. . .. . .  * * * * * * * * * ....    12
IV.     THE BANK GROUP'S INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR STRATEGY ..    13
A.  Lending and Industrial Strategy ........0................    13
B.  Impact of Previous Industrial Sector Operations  ........    14
- Trade and Industrial Pclicy Reforms *      .................  14
- Financial Sector ......... .          ........................    14
- Effectiveness - Resource Transter.....................    15
C.  Future Involvement .......... . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .    16
V.      THE PROJECT .......... o      ...............................    17
A.  Project Objectives and Description       .....................  17
B.  Institutional Arrangements 5......................           19
C.  Costs and Financing Plan ...............................    23
D. The Project Component............* . .................. . . . ..   24
VI.     THE CREDIT .......... o.o ...... o*oo....oo... oo....... o.....    28
A. Terms and Conditions ...................................   28
B.  Administration Procedures                                    31
C. Benefits and Risks                                            34
VII.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .............................    35



-ii-
Annexes
1.     Interest Rate Structure 1983-1987
2.     Technical Assistance: Debt Recovery Reform
3.     The Capital and Securities Market
4.     Performance of Proposed Participating
Credit Institutions (PCIs)
5.     Technical Assistance: DFCC
IS     Technical Assistance: NDB
7.     Technical Assistance: Tariff commission
8.     Technical Assistance: The Export Development Board
9.     Technical Assistance: Industrial Technology Development
10.     TOR: Telccommunications Component for NTC
11.     Strengthening of Environmental Review Capabilities
12.     Disbursement Schedule
13.     Project File
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. Segerlund, D. K. Groves, B. Cu Kok,
S. Wu, T. Maxwell, and B. Sheahan (IFC) following an appraisal mission to
Sri Lanka in March 1988. Th' mission combined with an ADB mission preparing
the cofinancing component.



-i ii-
SRI LANKA
Third Industrial Development Project (IDP-III)
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower                S Democratic Social.st Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiaries           : Eligible Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) includ-
ing public and private sector comiercial banks and
development financing institutions. These would include:
Bank of Ceylon (BOC), Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC),
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC), Hatton
National Bank (HNB), National Development Bank (NDB), the
Peoples Bank (PB), and Sampath Bank (S8). Technical
assistance would be provided to the PCIs, the Presiden-
tial Tariff Commission (PTC), Export Development Board
(EDB), the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs
(MISA), and the National Telecommunications Commission
(NTC).
Total Project Amount        SDRe 89.8 million (US$124.3 million equivalent)
Credit Amount           s  SDRs 31.7 million (US$43.8 million equivalent)
Terms                   s Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Co-Financing            : The Asian Devel.  tent Bank (ADB) proposes to provide
US$40.5 million, inclusive of technical assistance of
US$1.0 million for project financing through a parallel
line of credit on terms and conditions similar to those
of the proposed Project.
Onlending Terms            The Government would relend the project proceeds to
eligible PCIs for 18 years including a three year grace
period, at a variable rate aligned with the average of
the AWPR 1/ for overdraft facilities prevailing over the
previous six month period, less a spread of 4S. Given
the absence of facilities ir Sri Lanka for hedging
long-term foreign exchange risk, COSL would bear the
foreign exchange risk on repayments to IDA. The implicit
compensation to vhe COSL for taking the foreign exchange
risk would be variable and set by the market as the
difference between the GOSL's onlending rate to the PCIs
and the international cost of foreign loan funds to
Sri Lanka. The use of a market determined variable AWPR
as a reference point for determining GOSL's onlending
rate, together with GOSL's flexibible exchange rate
management, will ensure that borrowing costs reflect
foreign exchange risk on a continuous basis. Based on
current interest rates present GOSL compensation would
be 31. The PCIs would onlend the proceeds to
sub-borrowers at market determined rates. On the basis
1/ The AWPR is a weighted aver-ge of the interest rates applied to all new or
rolled over advances above Rs 1.0 million extended to prime customers of the
commercial banks in Sri Lanka. This information is provided weekly to the CBSL
which compiles and publishes the AWPB as an official index.



-iv-
of the present AWPR and spread requirements, the relend-
ing rate would be between 13x-16% p.a. Interest rates,
foreign exchange compensation rates, and spreads would
be reviewed semi annually on or about January 1 and
July 1 with appropriate adjustments of interest rates and
spreads as necessary to (i) reflect movements in the
market reference rate, and (ii) remain positive in real
terms vis-a-vis inflation as reflectzd by the Colombo
Price Index.
Project Description    : The objectives of the proposed project, which complement
previous and ongoing industrial sector operations, are to
(i) provide credit through the banking system to medium
and large scale private industrial enterprises for the
creation of new operations and the balancing, modernizing
and rehabilitation (BMR) of existing facilities as well
as the BMR of a limited number of public manufacturing
enterprises with private shareholdings or operating under
private sector management service contracts, and
(ii) support implementation of GSOL's policy reforms and
institutional strengthening in the areas of tariff
administration, export promotion, technology development
and financial sector/capital market operetions. These
objectives would be achieved by mobilizing (i) about
US$110.0 million equivalent to finance new investment and
BNR of economically viable enterprises, (ii) US$7.0
million equivalent to support technical assistance and
training in the areas of industry, trade and finance
relating to the private sector; and (iii) US$3.8 million
(including a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of
US$750,000) equivalent to finance technical assistance
for the NTC to establish a regulatory framework for
operations of a commercially run communications utility
and private telecommunication companies.
Benefits and Risks       : The main benefits of the proposed Credit are:  (i)
increased production of efficient import substitutes and
products for exports; (ii) increased efficiency in the
industrial sector as a result of policy changes;
(iii) strengthening of the financing/capital market and
technology development institutions which service private
sector industry; and (iv) a rapid increase in private
sector industrial capacity utilization and production
which would add momentum and credibility to the ongoing
programs of trade and industrial policy reform. Although
a risk exists that an adequate number of subprojects
might not materialize due to the continuing ethnic con-
flict, the project pipeline and our projections indicate
a credit demand well in excess of the amounts to be
provided by the proposed credit. Another risk is related
to timely implementation of the proposed technical assis-
tance program for policy reform support. This risk is
limited by the COSL's commitment and determination to go
ahead with the policy reforms and would be monitored
closely by the Association through its ongoing economic
and sector work and project supervision.



- v^
Project Costs 
toreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    S of
---(Ui NIllionFKillion) …=  Component
Subproject Investment       1,140.0  2,265.0  3,405.0   38.0    75.3   113.5        66.5
Technical Assistance           60.0    264.0    324.0    2.0       8.8    10.8      61.4
Total Project Cost          1,200.0  2,529.0  3,729.0   40 0 0    84.3   1i413    67.6
Financing Placr
Foreign
S of
Crand Total
ADS                            -      1,215.0  1,215.0    -       40.5    40.5      32.6
COSL                           30.0      -        30.0    1.0      -       1.0       -
IDA                            -      1,314.0  1,314.0    -       43.8    43.8      35.2
Sponsors                    1,170.0      -     1,170.0   39.0      -      39.0       -
Total            1,200.0  2,529.0  3,729.0   40.0    84.3   124.3       6-7.
Disbursements           s
Bank Group Fiscal Year            FY89    PY90    FY91    PY92    FY93    FY94    PY95
-----------…-----…-US$ WTiTion)… ---------
Annual                              7.0     6.0     8.0    10.0      7.0     3.0      2.8
Cumulative                         7.0    13.0    21.0    31.0    38.0    41.0    43.8
I                                 16.0    30.0    51.2    70.8    86.8    93.6   100.0
Economic Late of           A minimum ERR of 152 would be required for all subprojects.
Return (ER)s
Staff Appraisal Report : No. 7230-CE
M2                      : p  .. IBRD 17278



SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP III)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Since 1977 the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL,, throu&1 the reform of
its trade and industrial pol;cies, has given particular emphasis to increas-
ing the role of the private industrial sector in efficient import substitu-
tion, expanding the level of non-traditional exports and providing increased
employment opportunities. IDA has assisted the implementation of GOSL's
strategy by providing credit, technical and export marketing assistance to
the private sector and by improving the institutional arrangements for credit
delivery under previous industrial development projects (para. 4.03).
Implementation of the phased trade and industry policy reform (TIPR) program
agreed under the First and Second Industrial Development Projects--IDP-I and
II (Cr.1401-CE and Cr.1692-CE)--has been satisfactory, particularly in the
areas of tariff and export incentive rationalization, but progress has been
slow in improving the efficiency of the public manufacturing enterprises
(PMEs). In its Industrial Policy Statement (IPS) 1/ published in March 1987,
G4SL reaffirmed its support for industrial sector development for the role of
the private sector.
1.02    To provide continued support for GOSL's industrial strategy and
achievement of the objectives set out in the IPS the 1988-1993 lending
program for Sri Lanka originally included an industrial sector credit (ISC)
which would address issues and constraints of both the private and the public
sector. However, following reviews of progress on actions to improve the
efficiency of the PMEs, it was considered more appropriate to substitute two
new industrial lending operations for the ISC with one focusing on issues and
constraints to the rapidly growing private industrial sector and one on the
more time-consuming requirement of public enterprise restructuring. The
proposed Project, with an estimated cost of US$124.3 million, focusses on the
development of the private industrial sector and would provide continued
support for the implementation of the reform programs already agreed under
previoua projects and the IMF's recent Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP).
Funding for the project would be provided by IDA (US$43.8 million), the Asian
Development Bank--ADB--(US$40.5 million) and by GOSL/Subproject Sponsors
(US$40.0 million). Although the primary focus of the proposed Project is on
private sector development, it would provide an expeditious vehicle for
preparatory work required for restructuring/commercialization of telecom-
munications under IDA's proposed PY90 Public Enterprise Restructuring
Project.
1/ A copy of the IPS is held on the Project File.



-2-
II. INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Economic Setting 1/
2.01    Real CDP in Sri Lanka grew by only 2.7X p.a. during 1970-1976, due to
a combination of a policy framework unconducive to growth and efficiency,
inadequate domestic resource mobilization efforts, and the sharp rise in the
cost of imported food and petroleum. In late 1977, the new Government
initiated a liberalization program with the objective of increasing the
growth rote of production a-d employmeat, savings and investment and
exports. 2/ To achieve these objectives, GOSL introduced policies which
included exchange rate unification and depreciation, import trade liberaliza-
tion, interest rate increases to encourage savings, full cost pricing for
most imported commodities and the establishment of a free trade zone (FTZ)
to attract export-oriented foreign private investment. The economy initially
reacted vigorously to these measures, with real GDP growth accelerating to an
average of 7.3X p.a. during 1977-1979.
2.02    However, implementation of some of the policies and achievemencs also
led to serious fiscal and external imbalances. For example, as the public
investment program rose from about 15Z of GDP in the early 1970s to 26Z in
1986-87 it exceeded the country's resource availabilities, thus contributing
to unsustainable budgetary and balance of payments deficits and to
undesirable levels of foreign commercial borrowing. These deficits were
aggravated by inadequate public sector resource mobilization and an overall
policy environment which was unconducive to exports because of an overvalued
exchange rate and high protection which created a bias toward import sub-
stitution. As a result of significant increases in public sector investment
and a disappointing revenue effort, the budget deficit remained in the
10X-142 range during the mid 1980s. On the external balance side, current
account deficit reached 8X of GDP in 1987. Due to these macroeconomic
imbalances, real economic growth slowed down from over 5% during 1978-85, to
41 in 1986 and less than 21 in 1987, while unemployment has risen to 181 of
the labour force. The deterioration in the external balance caused gross
reserves to fall from over four months of imports in 1985 to less than two
months in 1987. The debt service ratio of about 301 of exports reached an
all time high in 1987. she sharp decline in terms of trade of traditional
1/ For a comprehensive review of the current economic situation in
Sri Lanka, see Report No. 7720-CE Sri Lanka--A Break with the Past: the
1987-1990 Program of Economic Reforms and Adjustment dated April 1988.
21 This reform program was introduced in agreement with the IMP in support
of a standby facility and, subsequently, in January 1979, an Extended
Fund Facility.



-3-
Sri Lankan export (tea, rubber, coconut), and the impact of the ethnic dis-
turbances, with their consequent impact on budgetary resources and negative
impact on the service sector (e.g. tourism), underscores the continued vul-
nerability of the Sri Lankan economy and the need for diversification. In
these circumstances particular attention must he given to stimulate
industrial growth and exports, and through Lhese to employment generation to
reduce the present high level of unemployment.
B.   Structure and Performance
2.03    Although Sri Lanka has a limited industrial base, the manufacturing
sector accounts for about 15% cf GDP and 45% of exports reflecting both
industrial expansion and the deterioration of the plantation sector.  The
sector's overall structure has remained relatively unchanged over the past
decade. Large enterprises, mainly operating as public sector corporations,
are concentrated in cement, ceramics, chemicals, mineral sands, paper,
plywood, petroleum, steel, textiles, and wood products. Currently, the
manufacturing sector consists of 20 medium- to large-scale public manufactur-
ing enterprises (PMEs) under the control of the Ministry of Industries and
Scientific Affairs (MISA); about 50 corporations supervised by other line
Ministries; about 1,000 medium- and large-scale registered private
enterprises operating mainly in the Colombo, Kandy, Kalutara and Matara
areas; 5,000 small and medium registered private factories; 25,000 dispersed
small scale units concentrated in light industry and industrial services, and
about 70,000 small informal agro-industrial units. At the time of the last
industrial census in 1983 there were 100,000 industrial establishments. Over
86% of these employed fewer than five workers. These units accounted for 30%
of employment but contributed only about 8% to value added and output. Value
added per person was Rs 7,900 (US$275), compared to Rs 40,000 (US$1,400) for
the larger private sector units.  Overall the private sector employs 90% of
industrial workers and accounts for about 60% of gross manufactured output.
2.04    Government policy has had a significant impact on industrial perfor-
mance. Liberalization of trade and industrial policies 1977, the lifting of
foreign exchange restrictions and growing commitment to the private sector as
a basis for industrial development contributed to strong industrial growth of
about 8% p.a. in 1978 compared to an annual average of 1.8Z during 1970-77.
However, after this initial improvemenit, the rate of real growth in industry
slowed to an annual average real rate of about 5% p.a. during 1979-1987.
Factors contributing to this slow down in industrial growth included the
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate after 1978 and a number of
structural constraints (see para. 2.08) which adversely affected the produc-
tion of traded goods. Furthermore, although import tariffs were maintained
to provide significant levels of protection for manufacturers vis-a-vis other
sectors the growth opportunities created by the inward looking policy were
limited due to the small size of the local market. The slow down was also
influenced significantly by the wide variation in the performance between



-4-
public and private sector enterprises. While private sector industrial
growth (including the burgeoning garment export industry) has remained robust
and is estimated to have reached an annual average rate )f 13X during
1983-87, output of the PMEs essentially stagnated wit.. an average annual
growth rate of less than 1%. Private sector output is dominated by chemical,
rubb-r and plastic products (34Z); beverages and tobacco (27%); and textiles,
garments and fabrics (25%). Despite the private sector's growth, the PMEs
remain important, accounting for about 50% of industrial investment and
contributing about 40Z of gross wanufactured output in the non-petroleum
manufacturing sector.
2.05    Largely due to GOSL's positive efforts to promote non-traditional
exports, manufactured exports increased from 5% in 1977 to 40% of total
exports. However, they are dominated by export oriented industties with low
value added and poor linkages with the rest of the economy. Garments, for
example, account for about 60% of non-traditional exports but have an import
content of about 70%. Thus exports of traditional agricultural products
(tea, rubber, and coconuts) continue to be the country's most important
source of net foreign exchange.
C. GOSL's Program for Industrial Development
Objectives and Strategy
2.06    Prior to 1977 the industrial sector policy framework constrained
sectoral development along the lines of its comparative advantage. The
development of highly concentrated capital intensive industries was stimu-
lated by high protection levels and subsidies to capital, and heavily taxed
1-bor. Complex Government regulations and interventions created heavy
administrative and regulatory structures, features accentuated by the
emphasis given to PMEs. Moreover, GOSL encouraged the establishment of
industries contributing to the vertical integration of productive processes
with a view to substituting for imports, a characteristic particularly
visible in the chemical, ceramics and textile sectors, thus reducing even
further gains of specialization.
2.07    Recognizing some of the constraints caused by these policies, GOSL
made a number of major revisions to its policies in 1977, replacing import
iuotas and licensing with tariffs and providing improved investment and
export incentives for foreign and local entrepreneurs. However, by 1980 the
trade liberalization's initial successes in fostering ;ndustrial growth were
beginning to wane because of poor macroeconomic management and deteriorating
macroeconomic external conditions. In 1983 GOSL concluded that a much more
vigorous reorientation of its trade and industrial policies was necessary if
Sri Lanka was to achieve a more rapid rate of industrial growth. Thus with
technical assistance funding from IDA, GOSL initiated a series of in depth
policy studies to provide che basis for a comprehensive IPS which was pub-
lished in March 198'. It represents an important milestone in that it is the



-5-
first time a coherent strategy for the industrial sector has been explicitly
presented. The main thrust of the strategy is in the development of a more
outward looking policy stance to compensate for the relatively small size and
lack of purchasing power of the domestic markut. The IPS explicitly recog-
nizes that the principal requirement for this strategy to be effective is the
maintenance of an appropriate exchange rate. It also identified the follow-
ing policy measures as essential to the success of the strategy: (a) tariff
reform through the reduction in the amount of protection afforded domestic
industry to encourage efficient import substitution and to reduce disincen-
tives to exporters; (b) revamping export incentives by consolidating fiscal
incentives into a single instrument, e.g. a Transferable Tax Credit (TTC);
bringing indirect exporters into the system of incentives and improving the
system of export financing; (c) increasing the efficiency of PMEs by changing
the competitive environment, principally by reforming tariffs, and promoting
a range of privatization/commercialization measures including sale, closure
and private sector management contract operation; (d) an increased focus on
the role of technology; and (e) improving the efficiency of the financial
sector through reduced cost of intermediation, improved export and medium
term financing, greater scope of capital markets, and venture capital opera-
tions.
Overall Assessment of Intentions and Progress
2.08    With a few exceptions (principally the efficacy of consolidating
export-reLated fiscal incentives into the TTC), IDA is in broad agreement
with the general thrust of the IPS. However, implementation progress has not
been uniform. While GOSL has been quite successful in establishing an
appropriate macro-incentive framework through liberalization of the exchange
rate, and rationalization of trade, finance, and industrial regulations, a
number of structural weaknesses such as PME inefficiencies, poor application
of appropriate technology, imperfections in the industrial finance sjstem,
absence of a developed capital market, and shortages of critical human skills
constrain industrial development. Implementation progress in some of these
key areas is summarized below and in Chapter III.
2.09    Tariff Reform.  In the past, protection to domestic industry has been
provided through quantitative restrictions on competing imports and high
tariffs, frequently at excessive levels. In January 1985, on the basis of
recommendations made by the Interim Tariff Commission, GOSL implemented the
first phase of a significant program of tariff reform to reduce the protec-
tion accorded to local manufacturers, reducing effective protection levels on
a large range of product groups (350) from rates as high as 6.0 to a range of
1.5-2.5, with most nominal tariffs in the range of 0-80X. While extensive,
these reforms left unchanged a number of tariffs affecting PME products. In
addition, GOSL recognized the need to formalize the tariff review process and
created a permanent Presidential Tariff Commission (PTC) to carry out impact
studies of past and proposed tariff changes, review appeals and further
modify the tariff structure to a lower and a more uniform level of effective



-b-
protection, reducing the remaining import substitution bias. To support the
preparation of the SAP agreed with the IMF in February 1988, GOSL introduced
a two year program of reforms including an initial reduction in upper tariff
levels to 60% and the phased introduction of a four band tariff system, with
the objective of establishing a tariff structure by 1989 with an upper
nominal tariff level of 50% while narrowing tariff bands from six to four.
This would give an aggregate level of effective protection of 50% as compared
to the 103% existing in 1987. At present the trade weighted average nominal
tariff is only about 15%. The recently approved Third Small and Medium
Industries Project (SMI-III) and the proposed Project would provide technical
assistance support to implement these changes.
2.10    Export Promotion and Incentives.  Given the country's vulnerable
dependency upon plantation crops as its major exports, it was recognized by
GOSL that considerable emphasis should be given to the identification and
promotion of non-traditional exports. Thus, under the First Export Develop-
ment Plan (1983-1987) the focus of GOSL's export promotion strategy was on
rationalizing the export incentive structure; subsectoral reviews to identify
non-traditional export products; and streamlining the administrative arrange-
ments for exporting. Under the Plan, considerable progress was made in
introducing comprehensive incentives for export-oriented industries. Major
actions include adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy, extension of
duty drawbacks and export financing facilities to indirect exportets, exten-
sion of tax incentives to investment for indirect exporters, allowance of
accelerated depreciation with carry over of allowances until operations
become profitable and extension of Export Development Board (EDB) and other
incentives to all exporters of non-traditional goods. Overall, Sri Lanka has
a comprehensive structure of incentives in place. While there has been
considerable progress on policy and procedure reform there has been some
weaknesses in the institutional delivery system. To address the situation it
is now appropriate to review the role of the EDB in export development and
promotion.
2.11    Technology Development.  The IPS recognizes that despite improvements
in the efficiency of the industrial sector since 1977, a large proportion of
industry is still very inefficient by international standards. Apart from
providing some funding to improve firm level productivity and quality control
under SMI-III, little has been done to encourage adoption of foreign technol-
ogy to local conditions or to develop indigenous designs or equip-
ment/engineering capabilities at the firm level. The absence of a demand
oriented technological infrastructure, a financing mechanism for technology
development and shortages of trained manpower (managerial, technical, and
skilled workers) are some major constraints to technology development. Given
the reduction in protection to domestic industries, the need to become more
competitive in terms of quality and productivity is now of vital importance
to the sector. To achieve the objectives both the hardware and software of
technology development now need to be upgraded.



-7-
2.12    Public Manufacturing Enterprise (PME) Efficiency.  Since 1977, the
negative impact of PMEs on the industrial sector's contribution to GDP has
been a cause of concern. In 1983, to reduce this impact, GOSL testricted
PMEs access to budget funds and has directed them to the banking system to
obtain financing on the basis of creditworthiness and project viability. To
establish this cred:tworthiness the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP)
and line Ministries, particularly MISA, carried out a review of the asset and
capital structure of 157 Public Enterprises and Government Owned Business
Undertakings (GOBUs) to determine the level of capital infusion necessary
to return their debt/equity structure to satisfactory levels. 1/ However,
as of March 31, 1988, only 37 proposals for capital restructuring have been
finalized for submission to the MOFP and no actual restructurings have taken
place. Additionally, the legal status of private companies taken over under
the Business Undertakings (Acquisition) Act of 1971 was to be reviewed with a
view to returning the units to their owners. Little progress has been made
in this regard although several small units have been returned to private
sector ownership.
2.13    Programs agreed with GOSL under the ongoing industrial development
projects (para. 4.03) to address specific sectoral and firm level weaknesses
of major units within MISA, with the ultimate objective of providing GOSL
with clear indications of units which could be privatized, divested (par-
ticularly the private sector units nationalized in 1971) or closed, are
significantly behind schedule, due to opposition from the trade unions, and a
reluctance to reduce Ministerial controls over public corporations. However,
GOSL has successfully involved the private sector, through the use of manage-
ment contracts, to improve the operations of four major textile units, and
plans have been initiated to commercialize the telecommunications sector.
At the request of COSL the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)
developed proposals for the restructuring/rehabilitation of selected the
State Hardware and the Cement Corporations, but these have not been taken
up for implementation. In addition two relatively minor companies have been
selected for potential privatization in the near future.
2.14    With the issuance of the IPS, prospects for a more rapid implementa-
tion of needed actions have improved. To accelerate the process of PME
rationalization required by the SAF and future IDA lending, an action program
for the commercialization/divestiture of public corporations is being drawn
up by the Presidential Commission on Privatization (PCP) which gives par-
ticular attention to the issues of labour redeployment and layoffs. The
action program should be ready by mid-1988, and would focus on overall issues
such as policy, criteria for divestiture/retention of public enterprises,
institutional restructuring for monitoring of public enterprises, selective
1/ Public enterprises are units created by GOSL, COBUs are units national-
ized under the Business Undertakings (Acquisition) Act 1971.



-8-
rehabilitation, and reducing the role of the state in selected enterprises
through joint ventures and divestiture. The action program would also estab-
lish priorities in the overall rationalization program.  Given sufficient
definition of actions and commitment by GOSL, IDA proposes to support this
program by a Public Enterprise Restructuring Project (PERP) which would focus
on the privatization/restructuring of viable or potentially viable
enterprises mainly in the textile, cement and telecommunications sectors.
The IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF)
2.15    The actions discussed above are closely related to the policy focus
of the IMF SAP approved in February 1988 which addresses the following main
issues: (a) public sector adjustment policies to reduce overall budgetary
deficit (before grants) enabling the private sector greater access to credit
without risk to financial stability; (b) monetary policy measures aiming at
enhancing market forces, reducing intermediation costs and restructuring of
nonbank financial institutions; (c) external policy measures including a
flexible exchange rate policy, tariff and licensing reform, and specific
export promotion measures; and (d) measures to improve sectoral efficiency in
industry, agriculture and energy; the measures in industry focus on develop-
ment of an internationally competitive sector through export promotion,
public enterprise reform and tariff reform.
III. INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
A. The Financia. System
3.01    Institutional Framework.  In parallel with the liberalization of
trade and industrial policies, GOSL has opened up the financial system to
private sector and foreign participation. From a tightly controllel system
of nine financial institutions in 1977, the system has expanded significantly
and has become quite sophisticated. It now consists of The National Savings
Bank (NSB), three private and two public domestic commercial banks, two
industrial development banks, four regional agro-industrial development
banks, and about 120 other banking/financing institutions. There are six
money brokers who operate in the interbank/secondary market. In addition to
the institutions monitored by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), there is
an active unofficial market with deposit and lending rates higher than offi-
cial rates. 3.02    The two Government-owned nationalized commercial banks
(NCBs), the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and the People's Bank (PB), dominate the
commercial banking system accounting for approximately 80% of all institu-
tional lending to industry. Their lending operations are primarily
short-term with about 50% of lending going to commerce and 25Z to industry.
Because of operating inefficiencies and high levels of non-performing assets,
their lending margins are relatively high (6%-8%). Most of the Nationalized
Commercial Bank (NCB) resources come from deposits, which account for 75% of
the systems' total deposits, with few deposits of a maturity of 12 months or



longer. The non-bank financial institutions involved in providing services
to the industrial sector include finance companies, leasing companies and two
merchant banks. The merchant banks have not been active mainly due to the
slow development of the securities markets. However, because of the tax
advantages of leaming, finance and leasing companies have developed rapidly;
presently more than 50 finance companies offer hire purchase finance. Six
leasing companies, including Lanka Orient Leasing in which IFC has a
shareholding, also provide term financing. These institutions have grown
rapidly by offering high interest rates on deposits and lending for consumer
goods and transport equipment rather than for industrial plant.
3.03    Financial Sector Issues and Reforms.  Although the financial markets
in Sri Lanka have been substantially liberalized over the last decade and the
structure of the financial sector has become quite sophisticated, the July
1986 IMF/IBRD Financial Sector Report identified a number of areas constrain-
ing financial sector efficiency. These include inter atia; (i) distorted
interest rate determination; (ii) resource allocation; (iii) excessive inter-
mediation coctol (iv) a weak regulatory environment; and (v) an undeveloped
capital market.
3.04    Since 1977 COSL has generally pursued a policy of positive real
interest on deposits. While authorities did not interfere much with the
sGtting of short-term lending rates after 1977, term lending rates remained
administered up to 1986. The deregulation of interest rates has been sup-
ported by the opening of the financial system which has brought about a
climate of keen competition, and an interbank market has emerged.
3.05    However, development of fully market determined interest rates is
hampered byl (i) an NSB deposit ratee structure insulated from market forces
through government subsidies and partial exemption from income tax; (ii) the
thinness of the Treasury Bill Market (TBM)i and (MOi) the variable tax treat-
ment of interest on financial instruments. The distortive impact of NSB
deposit rates and its significant role in mobilizing funds to finance GOSL's
budget deficits will be addressed in a proposed Industrial/Financial Sector
review in FY89 to support a proposed Industrial Development/Financial Sector
Credit which would become a vehicle for implementing necessary policy and
institutional reforms. To deepen the TBM through encouraging a greater
degree of competition and development of secondary markets outside the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), GOSL plans to gradually remove the CBSL
from Treasury Bill tenders and to raise the penalty involved in using CBSL
rediscount facility. With sustained growth in the TBM, the Treasury Bill
could become a viable alternative to the AWPR for Commercial Bank (CB) lend-
ing which is presently used as the reference rate for setting long and medium
term lending rates. Finally, the uneven taxation of financial instruments
would also be addressed in the financial sector update/possible financial
sector credit.



-10-
3.06    The IMF/IBRD Sector Report noted that efficient resource allocation
is hampered by anomalies in the interest rate structure in which short-term
lending rates frequently exceed term lending rates (Annex 1). This results
from CBSL's rediscount schemes for term lending and the DFIs' previous policy
of rigid pricing of term loans irrespective of risk and maturity of each
loan. To strengthen the role of market forces in determining term lending
rates and resource allocation, the proposed Project would be open to eligible
development finance institutions and commercial banks. The participating
credit institutions (PCIs) under the proposed Project (as under IDP-II and
SMI-Ill) would be free to charge sub-borrowers a market determined rate.
Funds would be onlent from GOSL to PCIs at an agreed margin below the present
market reference point mechanism of the average weighted prime rate (AWPR) of
the CBs for commercial transactions. The use of the AWPR mechanism and the
option of fixed/variable rates would also be extended to all PCI term lending
operations. The irtroduction of a CBSL published AWPR is a positive develop-
ment in itself which can be expected to increase the public awareness of
interest rate movements and improve the basis for competition.
3.07    To reduce intermediation costs CBSL has established uniform and lower
reserve requirements. New instruments of open marke. policy are to be
developed to give CBSL greater flexibility in managing the liquidity of the
financial system and the feasibility of eliminating the business turnover tax
on interbank transactions as recommended by the IMF/IBRD needs to be pursued.
Further progress will be sought in reducing the intermediation costs of the
banking system through implementation of policy and procedural changes flow-
ing from operational reviews of the two NCBs under SMI-III. The proposed
Project would provide for technical assistance to assist the DFIs to imple-
ment their diversification programs which are expected to result in more
efficient operations and reduced intermediation costs (para. 5.15).
3.08    Intermediation costs are significantly affected by a high level of
non-performing CB assets resulting from legal constraints to debt recovery.
Considerable work has been carried out to identify the constraints in the
debt recovery process. An official committee on debt recovery has been
established to resolve outstanding legal issues, and an independent legal
expert has been appointed to advise the committee (Annex 2). A condition for
credit effectiveness would be that drafts incorporating appropriate legal and
administrative measures satisfactory to IDA to achieve substantial improve-
ments to the existing debt recovery framework have been presented to the
Cabinet. The measures are intended to include an action program to address
administrative causes of congestion in handling money cases in the court
system, including designation of additional courts to handle money cases ard
extended tenure for judges hearing money cases in these courts, and
simplification of procedures in serving summons for money -asess In deter-
mining if these conditions for effectiveness have been satisfied, IDA and ADB
will rely upon the written advise of the independent legal expert concerning
the appropriateness of the proposals submitted to the Cabinet. COSL also
plans to introduce other measures such as establishment of a credit insurance
fund and legislation reforming arbitration procedures.



-11-
3.09    Financial liberalization and a more competitive environment in Sri
Lanka require strengthening of the CBSL banking regulations and supervision
functions. Under the FY88 SMI-III (Cr. 1860-CE), TA has been provided for
this purpose. However, legislation to further strengthen the supervision of
financial institutions is necessary and this would be addressed under the
proposed FY90 Industrial/Financial Sector Review.
3.10    The capital market for shares and other securities in Sri Lanka is
undeveloped and stocks and debentures have not been significant sources of
finance for industry. 1/ Although a small number of brokers make a market
for shares and about 200 companies are listed, most are closely held or
dormant, and trading volume is thin. Development of the market has been
hampered by the relatively small number of medium and large companies in Sri
Lanka and the strong tradition of closely held ownership, which limits the
number of shares issued for public subscription. However, public interest in
investing in shares is low due to the relatively high returns available on
subsidized NSB interest deposits 2/, Government securities, and commercial
activities. Steps are being taken to revitalize the market; in addition to
the possible formation of an equity fund, GOSL has drawn up securities legis-
lation aimed at consolidating the operations of the two Colombo stock exchan-
ges which have not operated effectively.
3.11    Once the system of supervision proposed under the recently e-nacted
Securities Council Act is in place, COSL could stimulate greater securities
activity and the development of primary and secondary markets in Government
and public sector debt by increasing the tax incentive for companies to go
public, reforming the system of underwriting, developing new investment and
unit trusts by the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and the
merchant banks and issuing shares in profitable public sector corporations.
This would complement the establishment under IDP-I (Cr. 1401-CE) of the
Sri Lanka Capital Development and Investment Company (CDIC), by GOSL, NDB and
other Sri Lankan financial institutions, including the NCBs to provide equity
to new ventures, particularly joint ventures between PMEs and private par-
ties. The measures proposed by GOSL to develop the capital market into a
major source of industrial financing are a step in the right direction, but
more needs to be done. COSL recognizes this need, and in conjunction with
ADB/IDA is developing a program for upgrading its activities. Technical
assistance to move this program forward would be provided by ADB with more
comprehensive action to be initiated under the aegis of future
industrial/financial sector operations.
1/ See Annex 3 for a more detailed review of the Capital and Securities
Market.
2/ Presently 13X p.a. with tax exemption on interest income.



-12-
B. Investment Demand
3.12    In 1979, gross domestic investment amounted to 25X of GDP.  By 1980,
the accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli program increased the invest-
ment level to 34%. With the completion of large segments of this program in
1984-86, the investment ratio dropped to 26%. Of some concern is the reduc-
tion in private sector investment which was expected to be a major source
of growth for the economy. From a high level of 12.6% of GDP in 1980,
private investment fell to 9.7% of GDP in 1986. Part of this decline
reflects the uncertainty created by the ethnic violence which escalated in
July 1983, with particularly foreign private investors cautious in making new
commitments. Nevertheless private manufacturing growth has remained robust
(para. 2.04). While established exporting industries, particularly garments,
are expected to continue to expand, a much improved growth rate is expected
in processing industries linked to tree crops and, more importantly in the
medium term, in non-traditional manufactured exports. Against this back-
ground, GOSL's current Investment Program estimates that the share of private
investment in GDP will increase from 9.7X (1986) to 13% (1990). This
increase, accompanied by a projected reduction of public investment from 15%
of GDP (1984) to 12% (1988), would reduce the investment/GDP ratio from 26Z
in 1984 to 25% in 1988. COSL has established a policy that public investment
will be directed primarily toward provision of infrastructure to support
private sector activities which have considerable potential for substantial
growth if stimulated by appropriate trade/industrial/financial/human resource
policy framework and structural reforms. This potential is evidenced by a
healthy demand by the domestic private sector for industrial finance for new
investments across a broad spectrum of subsectors. While demand for new
project financirg is strong, a noticeable feature of the project pipelines of
the Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) is the increasing proportion of
loans requested for balancing, modernizing and rehabilitation (BMR) invest-
ment to optimize the output of existing installed capacity.
3.13    Investment demand is fostered by a liberalized investment approval
process. In January 1978, GOSL abolished controls over most investment and
established the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) to promote foreign
investment in the Export Processing Zones (EPZ) located norsh of Colombo. To
facilitate project development (mainly of export oriented projects) the CCEC
was empowered to grant exemption from a variety of laws including those
applicable to taxes, custom duties and licensing procedures. For private
investment outside the EPZ, GOSL established one stop service centers--the
Foreign Investment Advisory Committee (FIAC) and the Local Investment
Advisory Committee (LIAC). These units are organized to provide advice to
prospective investors on suitable areas for investment, locate suitable
collaborators and assisL in overcoming any regulatory difficulties such as
construction permits, utilities availability or necessary compliance with
water or waste disposal. No value limits have been set for project approval
which are based upon the financial viability of the project, although major
projects (US$10 million.or more) involving large foreign participation are
reviewed by FIAC. Overall, approval procedures are satisfactory with 4-6
weeks processing time.



-13-
IV. THE BANK GROUP'S INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR STRATEGY
A. Lending and Industrial Strategy
4.01    The promotion of Sri Lanka's industrial sector and improvement of
financial sector efficiency have long been key objectives of the Bank Group's
(IDA/IBRD) policy for industrial development in Sri Lanka. The main thrust
of our strategy has been to work closely with GOSL to develop a more outward
looking policy stance to build upon Sri Lanka's comparative advantages and to
compensate for the relative small size of the domestic market. In doing so,
the Bank has focused on policy, procedural and institutional reform to:
(i) reduce the level of protection afford_d domestic inAustry;
(ii) rationalize the existing complex system of export and industrial
incentives;
(iii) improve the efficiency of the PMEs;
(iv) increase the use of appropriate technology; and
(v) improve the sourcing and costs of industrial financing.
4.02    To date, IDA has pursued its industrial sector objectives by means of
a series of financial intermediar) operations which have channelled funds
primarily through two DPIs: DFCC and NDB for medium-sized industry and
through these institutions and selected commercial banks for small and medium
scale industry. Four loans were made to DFCC prior to 1977, aimed at sup-
porting private firms' foreign exchange requirements. Credits for SMI
development approved in 1979 and 1981 were channelled through NDB and five
PCIs including four commercial banks. The First Industrial Development
Project (Cr.1401-CE) for large scale industrial investment was approved in
June 1983, and was channelled through DFCC and NDB; this was followed by
IDP-II (Cr.1692-CE) in October 1986.  A Third SMI Project was approved by the
Board on December 15, 1987. These operations represent a transfer of resour-
ces of about US$200 million at current prices. In foreign net resource flow
terms (external borrowing minus repayments) these operations combined with
other sources of external borrowing for industrial term lending would
increase from an annual net flow of about US$35 million in 1986 to about
US$65 million at current prices by 1991 (excluding net transfer of proposed
Project).



-11-
B. Impact of Previous Industrial Sector Operations
Trade and Industrial Policy Reforms
4.03    Prior to 1977 IDA's industrial development loans had little policy
content and were made to support the private sector's foreign exchange
requirements. However, the first two SMI projents (Cr.942-CE and Cr.1182-CE)
prepared the way for far reAching policy changes by funding major effective
protection and export incentive rationalization studies and also addressed
technical and marketing constraints in the light industrial subsector sup-
porting services of the EDB and the Industrial Development Board (IDB) for
industrial development. Building on the studies of SMI-I and 11, IDP-I and
II initiated major programs of trade and industrial policy reforms (para.
2.09-2.10 and 2.12) which have liberalized the protection regime, rational-
ized export incentives, and initiated the implementation of GOSL's recently
published IPS. A further phased program of tariff reductions and restructur-
ing is under implementation, and the PTC is completing impact studies, updat-
ing its effective protection studies and implementing a further three-year
program of tariff reform. In the area of PME restructuring, assistance is
being provided to GOSL to develop a system of evaluating the economic
viability of public sector enterprises under changing tariff scenarios and to
determine the rehabilitation needs of selected public enterprises.
4.04    As of March 31, 1988 the trade and industrial policy reform programs
had had a significant impact on removing distortions from the trade regime.
Import restrictions had been removed, investment constraints minimized, the
export incentive structure rationalized and protection levels reduced from
rates as high as 6002 to an average ?ominal level of 50% or in nominal terms
to a trade weighted sverage of only about 15%. Overall, Sri Lanka's trade
policy and incentive structure now compares favorably with successful
exporters such as South Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. However, as noted in
para. 2.12, progress in implementing the PME rationalization has been poor,
due mainly to political constraints.
The Financial Sector
,4.05    Until 1983, the financial sector was a closed system with only
four/five major financial institutions in operation, and industrial term
financing channelled through the only DFI--DFCC. The system was beset with a
numb-r of major constraints to efficiency such as high costs of intermedia-
tion,.. limited term financing, limited access to term credit, and administered
interest rates. Credits to DFCC sought to improve its institutional
capabilities but it was recognized that additional conduits for industrial
term financing were needed. Thus under SMI-I IDA worked closely with COSL to
establish NDB. During the same period GOSL liberalized the financial system
opening it to foreign banks, term financing institutions and leasing com-
panies.



-15-
4.06    SKI-I uas used as a first step toward expanding the industrial sec-
tor's access to IDA funding through the use of commercial banks.  Under
SMI-II (Cr.1182-CE), IDP-I and IDP-II, institutional development programs
were initiated for PCIs focusing upon human resource development, project
appraisal and supervision capabilities, and operational diversification.
DFCC and NDB are now about to embark on a program of diversification while
the CBs with some additional support are now well placed to appraise large
scale projects. In the area of financial sector policy, interest rates have
been liberalized and are now more market determined (para. 3.06), the operat-
ing structure/costs of intermediation of the two NCBs are under review, and
the banking supervision capabilities cf the CBSL are being upgraded. The
July 1986 IMF/IBRD Financial 3ector report has provided a comprehensive view
of the financial system needed to develop a strategy for reform and this is
initiated under SMI-III (paras. 3.07 and 3.09).
Effectiveness--Resource Transfer
4.07    SMI Operations.  S.!-; (Cr. 942-CE) for US$16.0 million and SMI II
(Cr. 1182-CE) for SDRs 26.7 million have closed fully disbursed, although
SMI-Il required a one year extension of the closing date, due to an over
optimistic demand assessment and the impact of tne ongoing ethnic disturban-
ces on investment demand ir. 1983/1984. Under the two projects, about 3,750
subloans averaging US$12,500 were approved, with fixed costs per job (exclud-
ing land) of about US$1,750. Major subsectors financed were:
agro-industries, construction and building materials, and light engineering.
Random samples of subprojects indicate that most are operating without
notable technical difficulties. Given the initial inexperience of the PCIs
in SMI term lending operations overall collection rates of 82Z are very
satisfactory. As of March 31, 1988 a hard core of arrears of principal and
interest accounted for Rs 90 millio.g (US$3 million) or 12% of total portfolio
balances. Efforts by the PCIs and IDA have contained the arrears and
detailed recovery programs are gradually reducing the amounts involved.
Progress under the technical and marketing service component was slower than
anticipated due to delays in locating suitable consultants, constructing
facilities and recruiting staff. SMI-III for US$20 million, with equivalent
cofinancing from ADB, which builds on the technical assistance component of
the earlier projects, was approved by the Board on December 15, 1987, and
declared effective in April 1988.
4.08    IDP Operations.  IDP-I's credit component of SDRs 21.1 million is
fully committed and as of March 31, 1988 90% has been disbursed which is in
line with projected disbursements. Project funds were used to finance 117
subprojects, of which 97 (83%) were medium- scale BMR projects and 20 (17%)
were for new operations. Sectoral distribution covered agro-industry,
cersmics, chemicals, glassware, garments, engineering, printing and packaging
and rubber products. In value, SDRs. 15 million (70%) was committed for
private sector projects and SDRs. 6.1 million (30%) for joint-venture sub-
sidiary companies of Public Sector Corporations. While many of these



-16-
projects are still under implementation, analyses of the appraisal reports
show satisfactory domestic resources cost ratios, and estimated economic and
financial rates of return, based on Bank guidelines, in excess of 15Z.
4.09    IDP-II (Credit 1692-CE) which became effective in October 1986
provided SDRs 17.4 million (US$20.0 million) to supplement the term financing
resources of DFCC and NDB. This amount was supported with US$20.0 million of
cofinancing from ADB. As of March 31, 1988 the project funds were fully
committed (20 months ahead of schedule) and disbursements of SDRs 9.5 million
(54Z) are significantly above SAR estimates. With the commitment of IDP-II
the DFIs have exhausted their foreign exchange term financing resources.
Most of the subprojects financed under the project are still under implemen-
tation. However, analysis of the appraisal reports show satisfactory DRCs,
ERR ar:1 IFRR.
C. Future Involvement
4.10    The main thrust of future IDA operations in the industrial sector is
to work closely with GOSL to formulate and implement a program of action to
achieve the IPS objectives with specific attention given to the following
outstanding issues: (a) development of a coherent program for PHE
rationalization involving more efficient management of existing enterprises,
restructuring, divesture, 3oint venture, and closures; (b) development of an
efficient and sound financial system (including capital market) through
reforms in financial policies supported by development of a robust institu-
tional base for finance and institutional infrastructure for financial infor-
mation, regulation and supervision; (c) identification and alleviation of
human resource constraints (e.g. managerial, technical, skilled workers) zo
industrialization; (d) identification and alleviation of technology develop-
ment constraints to industrial development; and (e) refinement and implemen-
tation of agreed trade/export incentive reforms.
4.11    In supporting the IPS objectives IDA views its involvement as a
multi-faceted one, with individual operations considered in the context of an
integrated approach to address sector issues and priorities. Against this
background, three operations are presently planned:
(a) The proposed Project (IDP-III) which would focus on expansion of
private sector investment, implementation of agreed programs of trade
and industrial policy reform, and improving the efficiency of the
financial sector/capital market;
(b) A Public Enterprise Restructuring Project (PERP) in FY90 which would
focus on the restructuring and commercialization/privatization of
selected enterprises mainly in the textile, cement and telecommunica-
tions sectors; and



-17-
(c) An Industrial Development/Financial Sector Credit in FY92 (with
possible cofinancing from ADB), which would focus on outstanding
financial policy issues identified by a proposed industrial/financial
sector review. The Project would provide support for the (i) fur-
ther strengthening of CBSL banking supervision, (ii) upgrading of
financial information availability and strengthening of the legal and
regulatory environment, (iii) strengthening of the operating
efficiency of the NCBs, operationsl diversification of the DFIs, and
(iv) further measures to strengthen the primary and secondary market
for equity and long-term debt instruments.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
5.01    IDA's lending for industry since 1977 has been successful in support-
ing a broad-based program of industrial/trade policy reform, upgrading finan-
cial institutions, strengthening Government institutional support for
industrial development and financing high priority investment projects. The
thrust of the proposed Project reflects a continuation of an incremental,
broad-based operational strategy to achieve a well-balanced, synergic policy
and structural framework conducive to industrial development. This approach
recognizes that the project's efforts in supporting industrial financial
institutions and private sector enterprises are likely to succeed only if
conceived in the context of overall industrial/trade/financial sector and
supported by necessary policy and institutional reforms. To make this
approach viable in the context of an investment project, the project supports
continued implementation of the reform programs already agreed with GOSL
under IDP-I and IDP-II and provides support for the implementation of GOSL's
IPS and IMF's SAF by channeling funds to private industries, strengthening
the credit delivery system and addressing issues which constrain development
of a more efficient private manufacturing sector. In addition to supporting
the overall institutional developments of the PCIs, it would provide support
for the implementation of GOSL's development programs in the areas of tech-
nology, export promotion, capital markets, and the next stages of tariff
reform.  The project would also represent a further step in moving toward
possible financial sector lending. Specific objectives of the Project are
to:
(a) assist GOSL implement the next agreed phased of tariff reform
(para. 2.09);
(b) assist GOSL to prepare the regulatory framework to establish an
independent commercial telecommunication authority (para. 2.14);
(c) ensure a statle and more competitive flow of term finance to private
industry by wiaoning participation of credit institutions to include
commercial banks and increasing the range of services offered by
them (para. 3.06);



-18-
(d) continue institution building programs of DFIs, i.e. implementation
of strategy/corporate planning recommendations aimed inter alia at
service diversification and enhanced human resource development
program (para. 3.07);
(e) assist in developing a more efficient capital market with the objec-
tive of increasing the sources of eqzity finance for industry
(paras. 3.10-3.11);
(f) assist GOSL to prepare and implement its Second Export Development
Plan (FY88-FY92) (para. 5.23);
(g) assist GOSL to initiate the implementation of its IPS objectives to
strengthen industrial technology development by formulating a
detailed technology development program (para. 5.25); and
(h) provide training for GOSL/PCI staff to make environmental impact
assessment guidelines for industry operational (para. 6.05).
5.02    The components of the proposed Project are:
(a) Line of Credit of US$113.5 million line of credit with US$36 million
equivalent from IDA and US$39.5 million from APr, and US$38.0 million
by way of sub-sponsor local currency contributions for direct lending
by PCIs to medium- and large-scale private sector industrial
enterprises.
(b) Technical Assistance of US$10.8 million with US$7.8 million equiv-
alent million from IDA, US$2.0 million from GOSL, US$1.0 million from
ADB and selected organizations to: (i) implement tariff reform; (ii)
strengthen export administration; (iii) improve the infrastructure
and financing arrangements for industrial technology; (iv) improve
capital market efficiency; and (v) upgrade the operations of CDIC,
DFCC and NDB. Although the primary focus of the project is on
private sector development and resolution of issues constraining
private sector investment in industry, the TA-component includes
US$3.8 (including an ongoing PPF of US$750,000) for the National
Telecommunications Commission (NTC) to fund (i) preparatory work and
implementation of an appropriate regulatory framework required to
establish a commercially run telecommunications utility; and
(ii) preparatoty work for restructuring/commercialization of telecom-
munications under IDA's proposed FY90 PERP (para 4.11).
5.03    The proposed Project would support further development and implemen-
tation of policy reforms by GOSL through (a) the development of the Second
Export Development Plan (FY88-FY92); (b preparation of an action program for
technology development;.(c) identification of necessary changes to the



-19-
regulatory framework and tax incentives affecting capital market transac-
tions; and (d) assistance in the ongoing review of effective rates of protec-
tion for the implementation of a revised tariff structure.
5.04    co-Financing by ADB.  Preparation of the proposed Project has been
coordinated closely with ADB. Joint appraisal missions were carried out, and
IDA has reached agreement with ADB on the content and mechanisms for assist-
ing COSL implement its policy reform program and for monitoring satisfactory
implementation. The ADB/IDA subproject financing components should provide
sufficient financing to meet the needs of the PCIs until June 1992.
B. Institutional Arrangements
Participating Credit Institutions 1/
5.05    Under the ongoing SMI and IDP projs:.  D')A has progressively
increased its involvement in the financial sy8teJ to include both DFIs and
the CBs and has worked closely with them to u%:ade their institutional
capabilities. Consistent with these developments it is now considered timely
to provide access to IDA lines of credit for medium and large scale project
financing to the CBs. Such a step would provide access to their branch
networks to promote wider regional utilization of the project, would promote
efficiencies for sub-borrowers who would need to deal with and provide
securities to a more restricted number of institutions and would promote the
further development of financial institutions within the country. Further-
more, providing access to the proposed Project for the CBs would be a natural
evolution from their involvement in the SMI projects and would enable them to
provide an ongoing service to their successful SMI clients who have become to
large to qualify for further SMI financing. The advent of a new private
sector commercial bank in Sri Lanka, which is in a strong position to utilize
modern banking technology and techniques, and which has already established
an active project promotion and identification division, has been a further
incentive to widen the range of participating institutions.
5.06    The Development Financing Institutions (DFIs). The performance of
the DFIs (DFCC and NDB) under the ongoing IDPs has been satisfactory, with
commitment and disbursement of project funds significantly ahead of the rate
anticipated at the time of appraisal. For both institutions, considerable
progress has been made, through the technical assistance process, in improv-
ing operating procedures. Staff from both institutions have received local
and overseas training which has been supplemented by on the job training
under the guidance of specialist advisors. The overall capabilities of
DFCC/NDB staff is now such that they provide technical assistance to other
1/ See also Annex 4. Detailed write-ups on the organization and performance
of the PCIs are held in the project file.



-20-
DFIs in the region. The DFIs have al:rj recognized that, in the now more
competitive financial sector, they must provide a higher standard and broader
range of financial services to their clients. Both, with the help of con-
sultants funded under IDP-II, are now implementing diversification programs
which will be further supported by TA under the proposed project.
5.07    Since 1983 DFCC's total assets have grown from Rs 769 million to
Rs 1.9 billion (FY87) or at an annual average rate of 34%. With the
increased volume of operations, net income atter tax has increased from
Rs 14.4 million (FY84) to Rs 47.6 million, or by 482 p.a. Return on equity
has grown from 9.3Z (FY84) to 20.5% (FY87), while the debt service coverage
has increased from 1.1 (FY84) to 2.0 (FY87). DFCC's debt equity ratio has
incre%sed from 3.8:1 (FY84) to 6.7:1 (FY87) but is satisfactory. Collection
performance has increased from 65% (FY84) of amounts due to 85% (FY87).
Although both DFIs have been troubled by portfolio arrears, both have taken
appropriate action to address their weaknesses and to minimize the impact on
Lheir profiLability. DFCC's management is concerned at its rate of growth
and is taking steps to consolidate its operations and maximize operating
returns. NDB has also experienced considerable growth, with total assets
increasing from Rs 1.7 billion (FY84) to Rs 3.3 billion (FY87), or by 25%
p.a. However, because of significant provisions to cover loans to the dis-
tressed hotel sector, NDB's net profits after tax have declined from Rs 110
million (FY84) to Rs 86 million (FY87). Notwithstanding this decline, NDB is
in a very sound financial position with a debt/equity ratio of 1.2:1, a debt
service coverage ratio of 3.2:1, a return on equity of 7% and a cumulative
collection rate of 80%.
5.08    The Commercial Banks.  Of the five CBs which may qualify as PCIs
under Lne Project, two (BOC and PB) are NCBs, two (HNB and SB) are wholly
owned by the private sector. The third, CBOC, is 30% owned by a public
sector trading corporation but has complete operating autonomy. BOC and PB
have been in operation since the 1940s, while CBOC and HNB have been in
operations since 1970. SB became operational only in March 1987. The
organizational structures and staffing of the CBs are adequate and
appropriate for the scale and nature of their operations.
5.09    The implementation of SMI-I and II by the PCIs with the assistance of
NPB, has demonstrated PCI capability for selection of suitable project spon-
sors and for appraising and supervising subprojects. Thus, subject to ful-
filling the conditions of participation (para. 5.15) the five PCIs par-
ticipating under the ongoing SMI-II and III, together with NDB, would con-
tinue to be the PCIs responsible for appraisal supervision and collection of
subloans under the proposed project, although any financial institution
(e.g., SB) would be eligible to participate. However, the CE staff have had
little experience in the preparation and appraisal of large scale projects
and it will be necessary to upgrade and strengthen their skills through
appropriate training programs. Each institution has indicated a willingness
to have at least two of their staff attend courses and regional on-the-job



-c 1-
training programs each year on project appraisal and supervision. Such
training would be financed from the TA funds of the Project. The CBs have
weLl developed staff training programs and facilities and SB has initiated a
wide-ranging staff training program. All the CBs pay adequate attention to
the need to develop staff for management positions and have policies that are
conducive to the development of a wide range of expertise within each
institution. The overall quality and levels of management capabilities are
acceptable.
5.10    Operations.  All the commercial banks operate within the framework of
traditional commercial banking with a concentration of activities in
short-term commercial and international trade financing. Most of their
resources are mobilized from the general public through current savings and
fixed term deposits and are mainly utilized through the extension of
short-term credit facilities. Term lending with more than one year of
maturity constitutes a very small portion of their 'ortfolios and is handled
mainly through rediscount facilities from the CBSL and NDB. For term lend-
ing, BOC, PB, CBOC and HNB have been major users of funds under the ongoing
SMI operations with BOC and PB accounting for 71% of total utilization.
Collection performance as of December 31, 1987, for these term loans has been
satisfactory with cumulative collection rates of 80% (HNB), 78% (BOC), 74%
(PB) and 60% (CBOC), although through an intensive arrears recovery program
CBOC's collections have subsequently increased to more than 70%. SB also has
a satisfactory collection rate of about 80%, but many of its loans are still.
in the early stages of implementation.
5.11    Although CB performance under the SMI operations is satisfactory,
overall performance and financial viability varies from bank to bank. Both
BOC and PB have portfolios which are heavily infected by defaulting loans,
particularly for agricultural credits, have high costs of administration
(2%-3% on average total assets) which adds significantly to their cost of
intermediation, and have low returns on equity (2X-3X). These weaknesses are
recognized by GOSL and their respective managements, and operational reviews
of both institutions are being funded from TA under SMI-III. The reviews are
expected to take about 18 months to complete and to initiate implementation.
CBOC, HNB and SB, however, all have satisfactory financial positions. Their
debt/equity ratios are 12.2, 9.6 and 3.0 respectively, while their returns on
equity are 18.5%, 13.9% and 14%.1/ Net profits after taxes as a percentage
of average total assets are 7.3%, 5.5% and 4.2% 1/ respectively. Even after
significant provisions to cover arrears, the net profits of CBOC and HNB have
increased annually during the last three years. On considering the perfor-
mance of SB it should be noted that it has only been in operation one year.
It has a broad private ownership base and has the largest share capital among
the private domestic banks. The financial results of its year of operations
have been favorable and market acceptance of the institution has been
evidenced by the growth of deposits, which now exceed Rs 0.8 billion.
1/ Returns on SB equity and net profits after taxes for the period mid 1987
to mid 1988.



-22-
5.12    CBOC's and HNB's profitability has enabled them to build up adequate
reserves against contingencies. At the end of 1987, equity reserves were
Rs 263 million for CBOC and Rs 217 million for HNB. In addition significant
provisions for loan losses have also been accumulated to cushion the impact
of non-recovery of advances. Accumulated provisions as of December 31, 1987
stood at Rs 160 million for CBOC and Rs 55 million for HNB, which represent
41.4% and 31.2X of outstanding bad and doubtful advances respectively.
Although SB's operations have been limited, it has provided for possible loan
losses with total (FY88) provisions for loan losses of Rs. 10 million.
Conditions for Participation
5.13    Participation conditions for each institution, including financial
and profitability ratios, portfolio collection and infection ratios and
staffing levels, were agreed during negotiations. Agreement was also reached
with GOSL that the DFI Operating Charters/Statutes, chief executive officers,
and portfolio management schemes would not be changed without prior consult-
ation with IDA. For the other PCIs it was agreed that strategy statements,
staffing, and doubtful debt provision policies for industrial term lending
would be satisfactory to IDA.
5.14    For DFCC and NCB the participation conditions will be a progression
from the portfolio quality and financial performance covenants of IDP-II and
will also reflect the financial restructuring requirements incorporated into
new strategy statements which were agreed on during negotiations. Addition-
ally, during negotiations agreement was reached with COSL on the form, con-
tent and implementation of: DFI Operating Policies, staff incentives
schemes, training programs, portfolio restructuring programs, detailed col-
lection ratios for 1988-1990, financial covenants for 1988-1990 and periodic
reporting requirements. To remain eligible to participate under the proposed
Project, the DPIs will be required to meet the following financial perfor-
mance indicators:
(a) DFCC. (i) Minimum annual collection ratio of 75Z calculated every
six months on a rolling twelve-month basis; (ii) minimum annual
return equivalent to 92 of average shareholders funds; (iii) minimum
debt service coverage of 1.2; and (iv) maximum long-term debt/equity
ratio of 8:1;
(b) NDB. (i) Minimum annual collection ratio of 75% calculated every six
months on a rolling twelve-month basis of; (ii) minimum annual profit
equivalent to 72 of average shareholders funds during 1988 and 1989
increasing to 9% for 1990 and thereafter; (iii) minimum debt service
coverage of 1:2; and (iv) maximum long-term debt equity ratio of 4:1.



-23-
5.15    For the CBs initial reviews of the overall operations of the BOC and
PB indicate that their high debt equity ratios (in the range of 50-70:1),
cost structures and low profitability ratios (return on equity 2%-3%)
presently place them outside IDA's normal criteria. Their participation in
the lending component of the project would be conditional upon agreement and
initiation of the findings of the operational reviews funded under SMI-III.
Although CBOC, HNB and SB, qualify for participation by meeting financial and
portfolio quality criteria, another key participation requirement, however,
will be the strengthening of their economic evaluation skills, training of
staff in IDA's reporting, supervision and disbursement procedures and
development of suitable in-house procedures for monitoring procurement.
Technical assistance would be provided for these purposes. During nego-
tiation agreement was reached with GOSL that CB participation in the project
would require (i) Board approval (and subsequent implementation) of their
Policy and Strategy Statements (1988-1992), and training programs;
(ii) minimum annual profitability equivalent to 10% of average net worth;
(iii) maximum risk assets/equity ratio of 14:1; (iv) min'imum ctjmtln1atv.
provisions for bad and doubtful debts equivalent to 15% of the value of the
portfolio with arrears of six months or older; (v) minimum annual collection
ratio calculated every six months on a rolling twelve-month basis of 75%;
(vi) term lending portfolio infection levels of not more than 20%; (vii)
maintenance of satisfactory staffing levels; and (viii) at least two years of
acceptable performance in terms of profitability and term lending operations.
5.16    The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, by two PCIs which have fulfilled all the participation condi-
tions noted in paras. 5.14 or 5.15 would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Credit. A PCI would not be eligible to participate in the project until
it has signed a subsidiary loan agreement with GOSL and access to project
funds would depend on the continued compliance with the respective conditions
of participation, particularly portfolio management.
C. Costs and Financing Plan
5.17    Total project costs are estimated to be about US$124.3 million, with
about US$84.3 million, or 68%, in foreign exchange. ADB would provide
US$40.5 million through a parallel line of credit and IDA would provide SDRs
31.7 million (US$43.8 million equivalent). The balance of investment
requirements would be provided through sponsor contributions. The foreign
exchange requirements for technical assistance would be supplemented by
equivalent local currency resources from the PCIs and GOSL. The estimated
costs and detailed financing plan are shown below:



-24-
Estimated Costs:
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Z of
-----(Rs Million-----          U$ Million)-----  Component
Subproject Investment       1,140.0  2,265.0  3,405.0   38.0    75.5   113.5        66.5
Technical Assistance           60.0    264.0    324.0    2.0       8.8    10.8      81.4
Total Project Cost          1,200.0  2,529.0  3,729.0   40.0    84.3   124.3         67.8
Financing Plan
Foreign
Z of
Total
ADS                             -    1,215.0  1,215.0    -        40.5    40.5       32.6
GOSL                           30.0      -        30.0    1.0      -        1.0       -
IDA                             -    1,314.0  1,314.0    -        43.8    43.8      35.2
Sponsors                    1,170.0      -     1,170.0   39.0      -       39.0      -
1,200.0  2,529.0  3,729.0   40.0    84.3   124.3        67.8
D. The Project Components
The Credit Component
5.18 The credit component is one of two main project components and is
designed to meet part of the funding requirements of the PCIs for private
sector investment. Until recently the DFIs have been the major source of
term lending finance, although the CBs are now playing a more important role,
with about 20% of their advances going to industry in the form of working
capital and "rolled over" advances for medium term project financing. Based
en the mmA,s,m- anA 1AVV-QgAlP nrivAte sector proiects presentlv under
appraisal by the PCIs and which are expected to be approved within the next
12 months, immediate foreign exchange requirements are about US$65 million.
Based on the current project pipeline and conservative assumptions regarding
the rate of growth of the private manufacturing sector (5% p.a.), 1/ the
incremental capital/output ratio, permanent working capital requirements,
I/ Growth rates in 1986-1987 have averaged 16% p.a. but this has been sig-
nificantly discounted to reflect the possible impact of Presidential/
District elections in 1988/1989.



-25-
and anticipating levels of international and domestic inflation, total PCI
investment requirements for medium/large scale project investment for
FY88-FY90 is estimated at US$120 million. However, based on past IDA opera-
tions, subproject sponsors will only provide about 302 of these needs from
local resources and will need to mobilize the balance from multilateral
agencies. The proposed credit component of US$75.5 million for subproject
financing (including ADB funding of US$39.5 million and IDA resources of
US$36.0 million) contributes to this resource mobilization.
Technical Assistance Component (IDA)
5.19    The second project component (technical assistance) would provide
support for implementation of the trade and industrial policy reform programs
already agreed with GOSL under previous industrial development projects and
the IMF SAF and would provide support to translate the IPS into operational
reality. As mentioned in para. 5.01, a broad-based and incremental approach
in supporEing impiementation of GOSL's IPS ubjctives to alleviate structural
constraints is seen as essential to ensure development of financially viable
credit institutions that can deliver services effectively to a more competi-
tive and efficient private industrial sector. Total IDA technical assistance
provided under the project would be US$7.8 million. As under previous IDA
operations, the National Planning Department of the MOFP will be the overall
coordinator for processing and monitoring the TA-components.
5.20    During negotiations it was agreed that the technical assistance
component of US$7.8 million would be allocated for programs to: (a) improve
financial sector efficiency (US$1,350,000); (b) implement trade and
industrial policy reforms (US$100,000); (c) rationalize export development
procedures (US$400,000); (d) upgrade technology development (US$1.7 million);
and (e) implement a regulatory framework required for telecommunications
(US$3.8 million); US$450,000 has been left unallocated.
5.21    Improving Financial Sector Efficiency.  Under IDP-I, DFCC and NDB
carried out diversification strategy studies. This technical assistance
component  ,ould provide funding for the development of DFIs's senior manage-
ment and in-house expertise and implementation of adopted strategies. In
particular, the TA will fund expatriate assistance in the areas of corporate
plan=in  ^nd development, perqonnel management and development and other
operational activities. Each of the experts, as well as fulfilling the
responsibilities of the line positions on a contract basis, will be required
to train and develop counterparts, who would take over as operating managers
on conclusion of the relevant consultant contracts. Detailed st~ .egy state-
ments and TOR for TA, have been prepared and agreed with the DPI managements
(Annexes 5 and 6) and detaillAd action programs will be prepared by the
respective DFIs; US$375,000 would be allocated to each DPI to fund 36 con-
sultant months of expatriate assistance and 48 months of local consultancy
assistance. Based on initial training program requirements, US$600,000 has
been allocated to upgrade the medium/large scale project preparation/
monitoring capabilities of the CBs. These funds would be allocated propor-
tionately between the BOC, CBOC, HNB, PB and SB.



-26-
5.22    Tariff Reform.  Technical assistance would be provided to the PTC to
carry out impact studies of the November 1987 round of tariff reductions,
update the EPRs, and implement the three year action program for further
tariff reforms agreed under the IMF SAF including inter alia the reduction of
maximum nominal tariff levels to 60Z on the tariff groups which were not
included in the first round of reforms (para. 2.09), the introduction of four
bands of tariffs and the phased reduction of maximum tariff rate to 50% by
1989. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOSL on the expatriate
assistance needed, which would be based on earlier impact studies of tariff
rct..rm and on impact assessment studies of PME viability under changing
tariff level by the PTC. Annex 7 outlines the details of proposed TA
requirements to PTC; US$100,000 has been allocated for this activity.
5.23    Export Development.  During negotiations, agreement was reached
between GOSL and IDA on the timetable for a core action program to implement
the Second Export Development Plan (FY88-FY92) which incorporates the find-
ings of the recent GOSL study on Export Incentive Reform; this study indi-
cates clearly that Sri Lanka has a comprehensive set of export incentives in
place for direct exporters which need to be extended to indirect exporters
and US$100,000 has been allocated for assistance to extend the incentives to
indirect exporters and to prepare relevant policy studies required under the
Second EDP.
5.24    Although institutional support by EDB for export development ovtr the
past decade has been reasonably effective, the range of its activities has
expanded considerably, negating its original objectives, and it is now timely
to carry out a review of its relative role and priorities. The relative
effectiveness of EDB itself and evidence from recent Bank studies of world
wide export successes which show that public agencies have, and can play a
vital, catalytic role in promoting exports, as well as promoting other
catalysts, represent the overall rationale for th'e proposed review of EDB.
The review would focus on EDB's organizational structure and operations and
identify actions necessary to rationalize its operations and make its serv-
ices more efficient and demand-oriented. This would be supported by
implementation of a human resource development program including introduction
of an appropriate staff compensation scheme, detailed training programs and
recruitment of key expertise required to implement EDB's corporate strategy.
Annex 8 details the rationale, content and exoected benefits from this TA
component; US$300,000 would be allocated for the institutional strategy
review and initial implementation.
5.25    Technology Development.  With the reduction in protection for domes-
tic industries, the need for industry to become more competitive in terms of
integrated technology, quality and productivity has become even more press-
ing. To assist industry co meet these needs there are basically two sources
of support: foreign companies and local technical institutions. While some



-27-
international subsidiaries have access to the technology of foreign comr-
panies, industry as a whole finds it difficult to acquire technology and has
to depend on intermediaries, e.g., machinery suppliers and local technical
institutions.  By and large, the marketing of machinery and equipment
(hardware) in the country is reasonably efficient with the existence of many
indenters and agents representing a variety of foreign suppliers. However,
effective access and absorption of technology is severely constrained by
shortages of trained manpower (managerial, technical, and skilled workers),
lack of appropriate financing instruments, and weak technological infrastruc-
ture.
5.26    This subcomponent would address these constraints by providing assis-
tance to the private sector to improve its productivity by adoption of
appropriate technology and assisting GOSL in preparing an action program of
well-targetted policies followed by initial implementation to stimulate both
supply and demand for industrial technology development. The action program
would include measures to: (a) encourage demand fuoi Lechanotogy from industry
and to facilitate adoption of appropriate technology from both foreign and
domestic sources; (b) encourage sources of domestic supply of technical
services and facilitate strong linkage between publicly funded research/
standards/training institutions and industry through appropriate institu-
tional strategy, investments and incentive schemes, (c) review the
feasibility of establishing alternative institutional arrangements for tech-
nology services such as product service development centers; (d) establish
permanent and viable financial mechanisms for technology development; and
(e) develop a strategy to alleviate human resource constraints to technology
development. The TA component would provide assistance to GOSL to (a)
develop an explicit industrial technology development strategy and an action
program for its implementation; (b) strengthen the technological infrastruc-
ture by upgrading the capabilities of the Ceylon Institute of Scientific and
Industrial Research (CISIR), the National Engineering atd Research and
Development Center (NERDC) and the Sri Lanka Standards Institute (SLSI) and
increasing the effective supply of domestic technical services and promoting
improved linkage between publicly funded research institutes and the
industrial sector; (c) give a temporary financial incentive, through cost
sharing, to industrial enterprises and to engineering consulting firms to
compensate for risks and externalities involved in technology development and
effectively to ~imulate suplA  and demand for technalogv development through
cost sharing assistance for e.g. destgn and product adaptation, productivity
improvements and training; (d) review the feasibility of establishing per-
manent and viable financial arrangements for technology development; and (e)
determine the feasibility of establishing alternative institutional support
for technology iervices such as product service development centers. The
total allocatioa. for technology development would be US$1.7 milLion with
US$1.0 million for institutional upgrading, US$0.5 million for firm level
technologj/productivity improvement projects and US$0.2 million for
feasibility studies. If private sector demand for firm level grant assis-
tance exceeds US$0.5 million additional resources would be made available
from unallocated TA funds. Rationale, content and expected bentefits from
this TA component are given in Annex 9.



-28-
5.27    Commercialization of Telecommunications.  TA funding of USS$3.8
million (including a PPF of US$750,000) is provided for the NTC to implement
the regulatory framework required for (i) the operations of private companies
in the sector and of a commercially run telecommunications utility to be
established by the end of 1988, and (ii) further restructuring of the sector
under IDA's proposed FY90 PERP. The TA component (in addition to the ongoing
PPF) would fund foreign experts' assistance, equipment and training
(Annex 10).
Technical Assistance ADB
5.28    Under the cofinancing arrangements, ADB would provide GOSL with
US$1.0 million for TA, with US$0.5 million for foreign costs of 120 staff
months of overseas training for the PCIs during the commitment period of the
project, and a grant of US$0.5 million to fund improvements in capital market
efficiency. In this context, during negotiations agreement was reached with
GOSL on an action program to (i) implement the Securities Council Act,
(ii) strengthen the Colombo Stock Exchange by establishing clear rules of
operation, and formulating trading rules, (iii) introduce a differential
lower tax structure for public listed companies, (iv) allow tax exemptions on
dividends paid by listed companies, and (v) upgrade CDIC capabilities in
equity finarncing and review feasibility of establishment of a domestic unit
trust; a review of the feasibility of assisting Employees Trust Fund (ETF)
will be considered during the course of forthcoming establishment of domestic
portfolio management entitites such as the proposed fund management company.
VI. THE CREDIT
A. Terms and Conditions
6.01    Lending Arrangements.  To meet part of the total project costs, the
proposed IDA credit of SDRs 31.7 million (US$43.8 million equivalent),
including the credit component of US$36.0 million equivalent and the techni-
cal assistance component of US$7.8 million equivalent, would be made to GOSL
on standard IDA terms and conditions, with 40 years maturity. Based on past
experience with similar projects, project funds are expected to be fully
committed by June 30, 1992, and to be fully disbursed in about seven years.
GOSL would onlend the proceeds of the credit component to the PCIs on terms
and conditions outlined in the draft Subsidiary Loan Agreements agreed in
substance during negotiations. GOSL would onlend to the PCIs in Rupees. The
proceeds of the technical assistance component would not be repayable to
GOSL, since these are development expenditures geared to increasing sectoral
efficiency, productivity, output and exports. Under IDP-I and II, IDA/ADB
credit funds were allotted to the PCIs on a first come first served basis.
This approach ercouraged competition and allowed for the continued
strengthening of the PCIs without interrupting the flow of funds to the



private sector and would be continued under this project.  "he pri.o e_
Project includes specific eligibility criteria for the PCIs to  'Arur'! ,
they maintain satisfactory operating standards (pera. ;.13-5.15:
Non-achievement of these targets would exclude a PCI from acctse t.
funds.
6.02    Utilization of Credit Proceeds.  The ADB and IDA credi': coizannenk.,4
would be approved in separate aggregate commitmtent allocations equivaAAnt  o
US$20.0 million each. The commitment of funds beyond US$20.0 Aillion of
either the Credit or the Loan would be made only upon the full commitmen . '
the first allocation of US$20.0 million from both projects with the comime
ment of funds beyond US$20.0 million subject to satisfactory progress by tTj8L
on the implementation of agreed reforms (see para. 6.09). To ensure a*! even
utilization of the Credit and ADB Loan, the Borrower should apply for commit-
ments from IDA and ADS, to the extent practicable, on a basis proportionate
to the relative contribution of IDA/ADB subproject financing.
6.03    Lending Terms.  The mechanism for interest rate determination agreed
under IDP-II and SMI-III would continue for this project.  Thus, the onlend-
ing rate from GOSL to the PCIs would be market determined prior to each semi
annual review and adjusted based on the average AWPR prevailing over the
previous six month period less a spread of 4%, 1/ which at preseat would
result in an onlending rate of 10  p.a. 2/  This would b2 a reasonable rate
in view of medium-term inflation projection of 8X-10 p.a. over for the next
three years and rates being charged by the commercial banks. The AWPR is
proposed as the initial interest rate reference point pending the maturity of
the CBSL's Treasury Bill Market or establishment of another appropriate cost
of domestic funds indicator. A semi-annual review of the mechanism, foreign
exchange compensation rates and spreads would be carried out on or about
January 1 and July 1, with appropriate adjustment of the interest rates and
spreads as necessary to (i) reflect movements in the market reference rate,
and (ii) remain positive in real terms vis-a-vis inflation rates as reflected
by the Colombo Price Index. GOSL would pay che standard commitment fee on
the undisbursed amount of the Credit. Given the absence of facilities in
Sri Lanka for hedging long term foreign exchange risk, GOSL would pass the
proceeds of the Credit to the PCIs in rupees and would bear the foreign
exchange risk on repayments to IDA. The implicit compensation to the GOSL
for taking the foreign exchange risk would be variable and set by the market
as the difference between the GOSL's onlending rate to the PCIs and GOSL's
international cost of funds. Based upon current IBRD rates (7.2Z p.a.),
1/ The initial onlending rate from GOSL to the PCIs up to the first
semi-annual review on or about January 1 or July 1 would be the AWPR in
force at the time of credit effectiveness.
2/ As of March 31, 1988 the AWPR was 14.2X.



-3u-
which can be used as a proxy for this cest, and GOSL onlending rates (10.21
p.a.) to the PCIs, the present compensation for foreign exchange risk would
be 32. The use of a market determined variable AWPR as a reference point for
determining GOSL's onlending rate, together with GOSL's flexible exchange
rate management will ensure that borrowing costs reflect foreign exchange
risk on a continuous basis. Accordingly, it is expected that GOSL's foreign
exchange risk premiums will be close to the cost of commercial forward hedg-
ing. The PCIs would charge sub-borrowers a negotiated interest rate on
subloans with rates either fixed or variable based upon agreement between
the PCI and the sub-borrower. GOSL's onlending rate would be variable for
the portion of the credit component that is onlent by the PCIs on a variable
rate basis.
6.04    Amortization.  The repayment from the PCIs to GOSL would be based on
a fixed amortization schedule of 18 years including three years' grace. The
repayment periods of sub-borrowers to the PCIs would not exceed 15 years,
including three years' grace; most subloans would be for seven to 10 years.
6.05    Subloan Eligibility, Size, Free Limits and Review.  Project funds
would be utilized for private enterprise investment, although subject to IDA
review and approval, a limited number of PMEs with private sector sharehold-
ings or those operating under private sector management service contracts
would be eligible for BMR financing on a case by case basis. Subprojects
eligible for financing are investments in enterprises in industry,
agro-industry and industrial services. Major areas of activities are
expected to be agro-industries, light engineering, chemicals, rubber
products, construction-related industries and industrial services activities.
Although the hotel sector, due to excess capacity, would at present not be
eligible for financing, a turn around in tourism market conditions and
improved financial viability of hotels in the sector could warrant a recon-
sideration of the sector's eligibility. To avoid an overlap with SMI opera-
tions which provide up to Rs 4.0 million for small and medium scale industry
operations, subloans eligible for financing under SMI-III (Cr.1860-CE) would
not be eligible for financing under this project while funds are available in
the SMI Refinancing Fund managed by NDB. Except as IDA/ADB may otherwise
decide, the maximum subloan size would be Rs 90.0 million (US$3.0 million).
To reflect the growing maturity of the two DFIs and the large average size of
subprojects in their current pipelines, it is proposed that their free limits
be set at US$500,000; with all subloans above US$500,000 submitted to IDA for
prior review and approval. Initially, the CBs will not be provided with free
limits but this would be reconsidered after a review of their subproject
submissions. To enable IDA to monitor the quality of subproject appraisals
it has been agreed that the PCIs would try to ensure that at least 251 of the
proceeds of the loan component of the project would be utilized for above
free limit subloans. These review conditions are expected to result in about
301 by number and 702 by amount receiving prior IDA review and approval. All
subproject loan applications above US$250,000 or any project proposal with a



-J1-
nominal tariff protection level of 50Z1/ or more will include calculacions of
the domestic resource cost ratio, and ir'ernal eccnomic and financial rates
of return. The cut off level for acceptanc~e of subprojects would be an
economic rate of return of at least !':.  Aiditionally, all subproject loan
applications above US$500,000 wotld be required to provide an environmental
im act assessment in accordance with GOSL environmental impact guidelines.
To facilitate the review of the environ"m-.tal aspects of subprojects it was
agreed with GOSL during negotiations that the project would include environ-
mental review training for Central Environment Authority and PCI staff and
that GOSL would identify sources of technical expertise in Sri Lanka that PCI
staff could call upon for assistance in project -eview (Annex 11).  IDA would
reimburse expenditures incurred up to 120 daya prior to IDA's receipt of the
subloan application and information required.  To provida f.r rapid disburse-
ment of project funds, commitments not utilized promptly 'i.e. within 12
months of PCI approval or the last disbursement date) would be reviewed by
IDA and the PCIs to determine appropriate reallocation of funds. Addition-
ally, to ensure a balance mix in their portfolios, total commitments by a PCI
in any one industrial subsector is expected to be limited to 20Z.  As funds
for medium- and large scale projects under IDP-I and IDP-II have been fully
committed and are disbursing ahead of schedule, the proposed Project would
include retroactive financing of US$4.0 million for expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1988 when most of the appraisal work was accomplished.
B. Administration Procedures
6.06    Procurement.  Contracts for civil works or goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$1 million or more would be awarded through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. In these cases a general notice of
procurement would be posted in the Development Forum and the
PCIs/Sub-borrowers would contact embassies and trade representatives of IDA
member countries. Individual contracts for the purchase of civil works,
machinery, equipment or spare parts costing more than US$500,000 but less
than US$1 million would be procured through limited international bidding
(LIB) procedures with approval of contract subject to prior review by IDA.
For contracts below US$500,000 the PCIs and TA agencies would use local
competi:ive bidding for major items, or international/local shopping for
smaller items with quotations solicited from at least three qualified
eligible sources. Sri Lankan suppliers and contractors would be given domes-
tic preference in procurement. These procedures are appropriate for finan-
cial intermediaries and conform to the Bank's standard practices for multi
project operations. The PCIs and TA agencies would be expected to supervise
and maintain records of the method of procurement and to monitor utilization
1/ The tariff protection level of 50X reflects the recently agreed tariff
reform program under the IMF SAF to reduce maximum nominal tariffs to 50X
by 1989.



of subloans through regular supervision activities. Selection of consultants
to carry out the various TA studies would be made in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines on consultant appointment. Procurement of equipment under
T# would follow the procedures as described above.  These procurement awards
would be subject to an ex-post review by IDA during the course of supervision
missions.
Procurement Method /a
(US$ Million)
ICB     LCB     Other    Total
Subproject Investment                12.6    75.5       25.2   113.5
(4.0)  (24.0)      (8.0)  (36.0)
Technical Assistance                         10.8               10.8
(7.8)              (7.8)
TOTAL          12.6    86.5       25.2   124.3
(4.0)  (31.8)      (8.0)  (43.8)
=== =====    ======  .======
/a  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed
by the Association.
6.07    Disbursement Procedures.  The estimated disbursement period is seven
years (Annex 12), which reflects the profile of actual disbursements of
Bank-wide Industrial Development Projects.  The Project is expected to be
fully disbursed (and closed) by June 30, 1995. IDA would disburse against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for goods and works; (b) 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory costs); (c) 70% of the costs of locally procured
equipment and civil works; and (d) 100% of expenditures for consultants and
training. Reimbursement for expenditures relating to contracts for civil
works and goods of less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure (SOEs). The documentation for withdrawals under
SOE procedures would be retained b) the PCIs for inspection during IDA's
periodic supervision missions. Requests for IDA disbursement would be fully
documented for civil works and equipment contracts above US$100,000 equiv-
alent and for consultants' services and training costs. To facilitate dis-
bursement, the Borrower would establish a Special Account at the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka with an authorized allocation of SDR 1.59 million (US$2.2 mil-
lion equivalent) which represents the average four month estimated disburse-
ment during the project period. The Ministry of Finance and Planning will
designate an appropriate monitoring unit to administer withdrawals from and
replenishments for the Special Account.



-JJ
6.08    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  PCI accounts would be audited by
the Auditor General or external auditors acceptable to IDA and the accounts
of sub-borrowers would be required to be audited annually by auditors accept-
able to the PCIs. The Special Account would be audited in accordance with
IDA requirements, by the Auditor General. All SOEs, together with supporting
documentation, would be audited annually. However, IDA shall have the right
to require that any PCI contract the services of auditors acceptable to the
Association, as considered necessary. Long-form audit reports shall be
submitted by the DFIs and GOSL (for the Special Account) within four months
of the fiscal year end. Audited financial accounts and statements of IDA
financed projects shall be submitted bv the CBs within four months of the
year end. Portfolio management reporting in a format agreed during nego-
tiations should be submitted to IDA within 30 days of the end of each
quarter. Additionally, withirn 45 days of the end of each quarter, the PCIs
would submit quarterly progress reports covering their operations under the
credit and technical assistance components; financial statements would be
submitted semi-annually.
6.09    Monitoring the Reform Process.  The monitoring of progress in policy
liberalization will be carried out through regular supervision visits by IDA
and ADB staff referenced to agreed action programs and understandings reached
during negotiativns. However, to provide a mechanism ror review of progress
in the implementation of policy reforms, project funds under the IDA Credit
and ADB Loan would be made available in two allocations of US$40.0 million
with commitments for withdrawals against the second allocation subject to
satisfactory implementation of the below program. The projected rapid com-
mitment of funds coupled with uncertainty related to the forthcoming Sri
Lankan electoral process may require the assessment and review of adequacy of
progress in the implementation of policy reforms to be based on efforts made
in good faith and to take into account elapsed time for commitment of the
first allocation of project funds. The specific measures to be undertaken
are as follows:
(a) phased %:eductions in the tariff structure as agreed under SAF;
(b) implementation of the core program of the Second Export Development
Plan (FY88-FY92);
(c) changes to the regulatory and tax environment tor capital market
transactions;
(d) initiation of an action program to reform the debt recovery environ-
ment;
(e) initiate implementation of an action program for technology develop-
ment; and



-34-
(f) implementation of agreed action programs to strengthen the operations
of DFCC and NDB; the action program for NDB would specifically con-
tain completion of restructuring of loans for, or undertaken legal
proceedings against, arrear clients representing a minimum of 50% of
NDB's Category D arrears as of June 30, 1988.
6.10    To promote a coordinated approach and focus for capital market
development, a Capital Market Development Committee will be established under
the chairmanship of the Minister, MOFP and with membership from appropriate
GOSL and private sector agencies. The proposed Committee would hold an
annual symposium, to be attended by relevant external agencies to review
progress in capital markets development.
C. Benefits and Risks
6.11    Benefits.  The Project's principal benefits would be to increase the
private indust ial sector's role and productivity sipported by development of
financially viable and effective credit institutions, resulting in more
efficient import substitution, more diversified exports, and growth in value
added of industrial products. Direct benefits of the lending component would
include US$126.8 million of additional fixed and permanent working capital
investment, with about $70 million in incremental annual output once sub-
projects have become fully operational. The expected direct creation of
8,500 jobs and its multiplier effects are particularly important in light of
rising unemployment. In addition, productivity of workers in existing
enterprises would be increased through BMR. Subproject performance is
expected to be equally as strong as under previous IDP projects, with
economic and financial rates of return in excess of 15%.
6.12    The project is also expected to yield direct benefits in improving
manufacturers access to (i) debt/equity financing by strengthening the capi-
tal market, and (ii) appropriate technology needed to improve competitive-
ness. The Project would also ensure a more competitive flow of term finance
to private industry by widening the participation of credit institutions to
include commercial banks and increasing the range of their services. Techni-
cal assistance to upgrade the operations of the PCIs and to improve their
subsector analysis and promotion efforts are expected to result in a wider
subsector distribution of term lending (e.g. to agro industries, rubber
products, chemical and engineering induistrie3). Improvements in tariff
structure and export incentives would encourage increased investment in
efficient industrial enterprises based on Sri Lanka's comparative advantage.
6.13    Risks.  The success of the lending component would depend on the
effective operation of the PCIs. The risk is expected to be of manageable
nature since satisfactory policies, procedures and standards to appraise the
economic and financial viability of projects and to supervise implementations
are in place.  As an additional safeguard, access by the tw; government banks
to the credit component would only be considered after completion of a com-
prehensive operating review to be followed by initial implementation.



-35-
6.14    Another risk of the lending component is that the projects in the
PCI pipelines might not materialize due to the continuing ethnic conflict.
However, since the actual PCI pipelines and projections indicate credit
demand well in exce's of the amounts to be provided under the Project, and no
other lines of credit are presently available, full commitment of the IDA
credit is expected to be achieved within four years. Moreover, most of the
industrial activity and subprojects are concentrated to areas not directly
affected by the ethnic disturbances.
6.15    Since the primary objective of the proposed Project is to assist GOSL
implement the reform program already agreed with COSL under previous IDP
projects there should be little political or institutional objections to the
Project. Since it also provides support for implementation of GOSL's
Industrial Policy Statement and the recently agreed SAF, it will help ensure
that risk involved in implementing a fairly comprehensive policy reform
program is minimized.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached between GOSL and IDA on
PCI:
(a) Statements of Strategy and Operating Policies (paras. 5.13-5.15);
(b) training programs (paras. 5.15);
(c) detailed collection ratios for 1988-90 (paras. 5.14-5.15)
Cd) portfolio restructuring programs (para. S..5); and
(e) financial covenants for 1988-90 (paras. '.14-5.15).
(f) subproject elegibility size, free limits and reviews (para. 6.05);
(g) procedures and reporting requirements for procurement, disbursement
reporting, accounting and auditing (paras. 6.06-6.08); and
7.02    During negotiations agreement was reached between GOSL and IDA that
the DFI Charter/Statutes, chief executive officers, and portfolio management
schemes would not be changed without prior consultation with IDA. For the
other PCIs it was agreed that strategy statements, staffing, and doubtful
debt provisions for industrial term lending would be satisfactory to the
Association (para. 5.13).
7.03    GOSL and IDA agreed that a PCI should not be eligible to participate
in the project until it has signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and fulfilled
agreed conditions of participation (para. 5.16).



-36-
7.04    During negotiations agreement was reached between GOSL and IDA/ADB on
cross conditional implementation of the following programs:
(a) an action program to strengthen operations of DFCC and NDB
(para. 5.21),
(b) the appointment of an appropriately qualified advisor to assist the
PTC implement the tariff reform proposals agreed under the IMP SAP
(para. 5.22);
(c) a core action program for implementing the Second Export Development
Plan (PY88-FY92) (para. 5.23);
(d) preparation of an action program to develop a policy framework and
institutional support for industrial technology development (para.
5.25);
(e) the preparation of changes to the regulatory and tax environment for
capital market transactions (para. 5.28); and
(f) joint IDA/ADB performance review criteria for the release for commit-
ment of the second allocation of credit proceeds (para. 6.09).
7.05    The following conditions should be met prior to credit effectiveness:
(i) drafts incorporating appropriate legal and administrative measures to
achieve substantial improvements to the existing debt recovery framework have
been presented to Cabinet (para 3.08); and (ii) at least two PCIs which have
fulfilled all other relevant conditions of participation should have signed a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with GOSL (para 5.16).
7.06    During negotiations agreement was reached between COSL and IDA on the
following mechanism for interest rate determination:
(a) the use of the AWPR as the market reference rate for all PCI project
operations and to the semi annual review and adjustment on on about
January 1 and July 1 of interest rates and spreads based on the
mechanism for interest rate determination to reflect any significant
movement in the market refevence rate, and remain positive in real
terms vis-a-vis inflation as reflected by the Colombo Price Index
(para. 6.03); and
(b) onlending terms, conditions, margins, subproject eligibility
criteria, and refinance arrangements (paras. 6.05).
7.07    With the above agreements and assurances the proposed Project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for a development Credit of SDRs 31.7 million
(US$43.8 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40
years to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



SRI LANKA
THIRD TRODUSTP!AL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE (1983-1987)
(In per cent per annum)
December 31                             1983            1984             1985            1986            1987
Central Bank Rate a/                              13.0            13.0               0             10.0            10.0
Government Treasury Bills
-   Primary market                             12.0            14.0            12.0            12.0             11.25
-   Secondary market                           12.5            14.2            1?.5            12.0             12.0
Conmercial Banks
Loan Rates:
Inter Bank Call Loans                     10.0-15.0       10.0-15.0        12.0            10.0-12.0       10.0-12.0
Secured Loans and Overdrafts              16.0-30.0        '7.0-30.0       17.0-20.0       14.0-18.C       10.5-22.0
Deposit Rates:
Savings Deposits                          10.0-15.0        10.0-15.0       10.0-14.0       10.0-12.0       10.0-12.0
Time Deposits
-   6 months                              13.0-25.0        13.0-19.0       12.0-13.0       ta.0--12.0      10.0-12.0
-  ;2 months                              16.0-25.0       14.0-22.0        13.0-14.0       12.0-13.0        9.0-11.0
National Savings Bank Deposit Rates
-   Savings Deposits                           12.0            12.0            12.0            12.0             12.0
-   12-month Fixed Deposits                    14.0-18.0       14.0-18.0       15.0            12.0             13.5
-   10-month Savings Cprtificates              11.0            11.0            11.0            11.0             12.0
Lending Rates of Credit Institutions
State Mortgage and Investment Bank        12.0-24.0       12.0-24.0        10.0-17.0       10.0-14.0       14.0
-  OFCC                                   14.0             14.0            -4 e            14.0            14.0
-  NoB                                    14.0             14.0           '4.".            14.0            14.0
a/  The rate charged by the Central Bank on advances to commercial banks *    the   temporary liquidity purposes.



-38-                               _
Page 1 of 3
SRI IANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
Technical Assiseance
Concerning Debt Recovery Environment in Sri Lanka
Legislative and Administrative Reforms
Obiectives
The primary objective of the Technical Assistance is to retain a
legal expert to assist in the deliberations of a committee to be convened by
the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to refine or dispose of various proposals
to improve the debt recovery environment in Sri Lanka. The committee has
participants from the Bar Association of Sri Lanka, financial institutions and
GOSL including the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance and Planning and
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. To facilitate processing of industrial sector
lendir.g by the International Development Association (IDA) and the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), GOSL has undertaken to formulate a package of
legislative and administrative proposals for Cabinet consideration. The legal
expert will review the pending proposals, participate in the committee work,
and provide further assistance as necessary in drafting this package of
proposals. In particular, the legal expert will be required to provide advice
from an international perspective on the practices relating to debt recovery
that have been found to be effective and acceptable in cultural, commercial
and legislative environments similar to those prevailing in Sri Lanka.
BackgrounO
On September 27, 1986, the Ministry of Justice of GOSL held a seminar
to consider various proposals concerning debt recovery legislation. On
December 13-14, 1986, the Bar Association of Sri Lanka held a similar seminar.
Topics considered during these seminar included proposed amendments to the
following legislation:
(a) Civil Procedure Code including definition of debt on liquidated
demand, person
(b) Judicature Act including the amount of a bond to be posted by an
appellant;
(c) Mortgage Act including determination by the Monetary Board of the
Central Bank that any institution should be granted Approved Credit
Agency status, substitution of "mortgaged property" for "mortgaged
lands", recourse to unsecured property of a borrower and institutions
enjoying the right of parate execution of immovable property.



-39-
ANNEX
Page 2 of 3
(d) Debt Recovery (Special Provisions Act) including a procedure
permitting entry of a Decree Nisi against a defendant--borrower prior
to notification of such defendant--borrower, investment of security
money in a designated bank, right of alienation of defendant-
borrower, protection to bona fide purchasers for value, registers and
indexes of certain types of transactions, amount of bonds, possible
warrant on attorney to confess judgment, rate of interest to be
granted on decreed amount until payment in full, establishment of
special court and penal provisions;
(e) Consumer Credit Act including amount of penalty to be assessed;
(f) Motor Traffic Act;
(g) Trust Receipts Ordinance including possible introduction of Inland
Trust Receipts;
(h) Agrarian Services Act including recourse to arbitration;
(i) Development Finance Corporation Act;
(j) Public Servants (Liabilities) Ordinance; and
(k) Criminal Procedure Act including criminal sanctions for passing
improperly funded cheques.
GOSL has dealt with some of the issues raised in these seminars but
has not yet completed work on all of the substantive issues. In addition,
GOSL has under consideration reform of arbitration procedures in Sri Lanka.
Terms of References
The legal expert retained to assist in the forthcoming deliberations
will:
(a) Review prior proposals emanating from the seminars, GOSL and
interested parties;
(b) Preparing proposals to resolve outstanding issues, advise on legal
practice in other countries relevant to Sri Lanka, legal experience
concerning debt recovery and assist in drafting new proposals and
reports concerning such proposals;
(c) Participate in GOSL deliberations and subsequently prior to
submission to Cabinet of proposals dealing with the ten acts
mentioned in paragraph 2 above plus proposals to reform court and
administrative procedures as well as arbitration procedures in Sri
Lanka with the objective of improving the debt recovery environment;
and



-40-                                ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
(d) Advise IDA and ADB on the resu'.ts of GOSL's efforts to advance the
process of improving the environment for Debt Recovery and whether
substantive and effective reforms have been proposed.
Exipertise and Work Mouths
The legal expert should have a thorough knowledge of debt recovery
practices in a country relevant to Sri Lanka's experience in such practices
and preferably some knowledge of Sri Lanka's laws, procedures and practices
relating to debt recovery. The legal expert should be licensed to practice
law in a country relevant to Sri Lanka, have corsiderable experience in
relevant areas of law and a working knowledge of arbitration practices. The
legal expert should also have experience in formulating legislation, working
with parties with divergent views, and in proposing ways of resolving
conflicts quickly and amicably. To enable the expert to participate
authoritatively in the process outlined in 4 above, he should be of sufficient
stature and of sufficient reputation to prove meaningful advice to the most
senior members of Sri Lanka's public service and legal communities.
The legal expert should be able to devote one week to preparing for
the working sessions of the committee, two weeks to participating in the
working sessions in Sri Lanka, and at least two more weeks immediately
following the working sessions. Subsequently, the legal expert should be
available to answer questions posed by the GOSL, IDA and ADB concerning the
package of legislative and administration proposals resulting from the work of
the proposed committee.



-41-
SRI LN  
THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
THE CAPITAL AND SECURITIES MARKET
Institutional Aspects
1.       Securities trading in Sri Lanka dates from the 19th century when the
Share Brokers Association was established. In 1904, the Colombo Brokers
Association (CBA), an association of produce brokerage firms, took over the
Share Brokers Association as an extension of its commodity trading.
Initially, the CBA largely handled trades for plantation owners who wished to
invest in shares on the London market, but gradually it developed a set of
rules for trading in domestic shares. Formal by-laws were introduced in 1955
and have been revised from time to time. These by-laws set out the
requirements for new listings and the regulations concerning transactions.
2.       In 1982 the Colombo Stock Exchange Limited (CSEL) was incorporated,
under the 1980 Companies Act, as a competing private group trying to
establish a more formal stock exchange. The CSEL never traded. The CBA and
CSEL have recently reconciled their differences and have set up the Colombo
Securities Exchange (CSE), where trading now takes place. The CSE is owned
entirely by brokers, although there is a provision for dealers to join.
There are presently seven brokers and two associate brokers.
3.       Stock trading continues to be self-regulated.  Listing requires
offering 20% of the company's equity for a period of at least a week,
although all 20% need not be sold to the public. While there are rules
regarding disclosure, annual reports are often late and do not always provide
all relevant information. Listed companies are frequently controlled by
large owners and existing rules to protect minority owners are considered
inadequate.
4.       The Government has recently set up a Securities Council to regulate
the exchange. Membership of the Council includes representatives of the
Ministry of Finance, the Registrar of Companies, and the CSE. The Securities
Council wili set up commissions to work out by-laws and rules for
information, disclosure, protection of minority shareholders, and insider
trading.
Characteristics of the Market
5.       In December 1987 stocks of 169 companies were quoted on the stock
exchange. There are no listings of debentures. The quoted companies are
concentrated in industry (56), hotels and travel (36), and finance and land
(20). There were four investment trusts at the end of 1987. Capitalization
of listed firms at market value was SLRs 18.73 billion (US$616 million
equivalent) at the end of 1987, or equivalent to 12-15% of domestic credit.
The nominal market value of the outstanding stock in 125 companies was SLRs
10.0 billion in 1985.



Ar4 .. "
Page 2 of 8
-42-
6.       Most of the market's activity has been in new issues.  Almost 50% of
the currently quoted shares have been listed since 1980. This is
particularly true in the industrial, hotel and tourism sectors. Once listed,
shares often become inactive because only a small portion need be offered to
the public for the company to be entitled to tax benefits. After compsnies
have been listed, they often raise additional capital by issuing rights,
which are usually taken up by existing shareholders. These rights are also
traded in the market. In 1987, fourteen rights Issues were announced,
totalling Rs 137 million, in comparison with only three new listings,
totalling Rs 197 million. Only 2.1% of total issued capital was traded in
1987.
7.       Roughly 50-60 of the quoted companies are traded on a weekly basis.
Trading volume on the CSE increased dramatically in 1987, from Rs 140 million
in 1986 to Rs 335 million. The average daily volume of trading in 1987 was
75,200 shares on 65 transactions, compared with 26,120 shares of 37
transactions in 1986. The CSE all share price index rose from 141.4 on
January 1, 1987, to 217.2 on December 15, an increase of 54%. Much of that
increase, however has been lost in the first three months of 1988. The index
at the end of March., 1988 was 167.0, off 23% since the end of 1987. Despite
the increased trading activity in 1987 volume is still low and stock trading
remains an unprofitable sideline for brokers. Trading is conducted only
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and noon. Buyers and sellers pay 1.5%
commission on each trade. In addition, there is a 1% stamp duty paid by the
buyer.  Stock transactions are not subject to B-T.
8.       Debentures and notes are not listed or traded in the market.  Sales
of government and central bank securities are handled by the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka (CBSL) there is no secondary trading in such securities. In some
cases the sharebrokers represent clients in the CBSL's sales, although
individuals and institutions can also participate directly. With the
exception of Certificates of Deposit (CDs), only two recent issues of Lanka-
Orient Leasing Company and DFCC, which were placed through reliance on moral
suasion in the first case, and by allowing the debentures to be counted as
part of commercial bank resrves in the case of the DFCC are traded. The lack
of issues of long-term debentures reflects the considered interest rate risk
that buyers of bonds would bear with existing instruments. A necessary
condition for development of instruments that provide a more even
distribution of interest rate risk between the buyer and seller of the
instrument. There has been no secondary trading in CDs, which are nominally
transferable, the development of such a market has been precluded by the
competitiveness of the banking system in lending to prime companies, and the
easy availability of overdrafts.
Tax Treatment of Equity
9.       To a considerable extent the large number of new issues of shares is
a response to the substantial tax incentives granted to equity issues of
approved corporations. Until April 1984, all investments in approved shares
could be deducted from taxable income; the bunching of new issues in 1983 was
largely to beat this deadline. The maximum deduction for individuals was



Page 3 of 8
-43-
lowered to SLRs 500,000 in 1984, and to SLRs 150,000 in 1986, although
deductions for investment in excess of the limit can be carried forward.
There is no limit on deductions by corporate investors.  To receive the
deduction, the shares must be held for five years or, if sold, then the
proceeds must be re-invested in another approved company within three months.
10.      Approved status is not automatically granted by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning (MOFP) but depends on the nature of the company's
business. The priority activities are exporting, property development and,
in the past, hotels. These incentives for new issues and the holding period
requirement have led, together with the downturn in tourism, to numerous
issues that are not traded. GOSL has recently cut back on the number of
companies granted approved status, and this, together with the slowdown in
the economy, particularly tourism, has sharply reduced the number of new
issues.
11.      All listed companies also receive some tax benefits to encourage
them to go public. This tax policy reflects the Government's desire to
promote greater reliance on the market for allocation of financial resources.
The tax rate on profits of listed companies is 40%, versus 50% on unlisted
companies. Dividends are subject to a 20% withholding tax. A refund is
available on the first SLRs 12,000 received, but obtaining this refund is
complicated. Capital gains on listed shares are not taxable, except for
marketmakers' profits, but this provision is probably unenforceable because
they are not likely to register their temporary ownership of shares.
Measures to Promote Stock Market Development
12.      The Stock Market in Sri Lanka is presently underutilized.  Total
capital raised on the exchange in 1987 was Rs 334 million (US$ll million
equivalent), of which Rs 151 million was for the industrial sector. While no
figure for total private investment is available, the figure of Rs 151
million could be compared with the much higher volume of-total industrial
investment approvals by the Greater Colombo Economic Commission and Foreign
and Local Investment Advisory Committees (which would exclude many
internslly-financed projects) of Rs 1.23 billion for 1986. Loan
disbursements on the pat of the two DFIs alone for 1987 totalled over Rs 1.1
billion.
13.      The aim of government policy should be to promote equity financing
and develop other sources of long-term financing, so as to strengthen the
financial base of the country's productive sectors. Equity finance is
desirable because it is the most appropriate vehicle for financing long-term,
risky projects. In order to create voluntary demand for equity, it must
yield an after-tax return that compares favorably with other uses of funds
and compensates investors for being the residual claimants on earnings.
Excessive tax incentives for equity should be avoided. The rate of return
should reflect an investment's underlying rate of return and risk, and not
merely tax incentives, as otherwise the public would be subsidizing equity
holders.



Pate 4 of 8
-44-
14.      Further development of the equity market will also be necessary to
support GOSL's planned divestiture program. The transactions involved in the
sale of GOSL-held corporate shares are likely to be much larger than the
present annual volume of financing raised on the CSE. The success of these
transactions will depend on the extent to which (a) the market has deepened
in the interim and (b) equity investments in general have become more
attractive to investors (paragraphs 19-29).
15.      Several measures could be contemplated to promote greater use of
equity financing. The supply of equity issues could be increased through
changes in DFI lending policies, legislative actions and the sale of shares
in GOSL-owned corporations. Demand for equity issues could be promoted by
regulatory, legislative and institution-building measures.
16.      The supply of equity issues in Sri Lanka is constrained by the
distorted relative prices of debt and equity in the country. This distortion
stems largely from the combination of easy accessibility to cheap term debt
financing and inadequate debt recovery legislation. In normal circumstances,
term financing institutions could be expected to charge higher rates where
the risk of their investment is higher. In practice, however, the two DFIs,
who provide the largest share of long-term debt financing in the country,
have traditionally on-lent at a flat rate of 14% for up to 60-76% of
projects' capital costs, irrespective of the underlying project or financial
risk. In addition to this, existing debt recovery legislation in Sri Lanka
makes exercise of a lender's security rignts a costly, time-consuming and
uncertain process, thus reducing the borrower's risk of losing control of his
assets--the normal penalty for excessive reliance on debt. The combination
of these two factors has negated the traditional market mechanism through
which sponsors are forced into balanced capital structures which reflect the
inherent commercial risks of their enterprise. Debt is effectively
underpriced, both in nominal terms and in associated servicing risk,m vis-a-
vis eq.ity.
17.      This distortion could be largely alleviated through improved lending
policies and debt recovery legislation. NDB has already indicated its
intention to move towards differentiated lending rates. While this is a
positive step, NDB should be encouraged to tie the different rates to credit
risk, rather than simply to type of loan instrument, and DFCC and the
commercial banks encouraged to follow suit. It is likely that additional
training in credit analysis will be necessary to assist the banks in this
area. As discussed in section of the appraisal report, steps are being taken
to improve debt recovery for the banks. The result of these measures should
be to make the use of equity financing more attractive for riskier projects.
18.      The supply of equity issues on the market could also be
substantially increased by the floatation of shares in GOSL-owned enterprises
to the public. Prior to this, to avoid depressing the market through
excessive supply, the demand for equity investments will have to be
increased.



Paga 5 of 8
-45-
19.      An improved regulatory framework could stimulate demand for
equities. At present, disclosuta rules for companies are lax, and
information in public reports is often out of date by the time it reaches
outside investors. The tendency in Sri Lanka to offer only a small portion
of total equity for public subscription places outside investors generally in
the position of minority shareholders, with existing regulations providing
only little protection from majority inside shareholders. The establishment
of the Securities Council should result irn stricter information disclosure,
protection of the rights of minority shareholders, ar.d tighter trading rules
and standards. This should increase public trust in the Stock Exchange and
reduce some of the premium outside investors require as compensation for
their lack of information about and control over their investment, and
increase the attractiveness of equity issues.
20.      In the legislative area, a further stimulus to the demand for equity
would be a simplification of the taxes on dividends--at the moment the tax on
dividends is overly complex because in addition to tax collection it seeks to
identify taxpayers and to favor small investors. It might be worth
eliminating the tax refund on dividend income, and simply lowering the rate.
As a first step it would be useful to see how many dividend recipients
claimed the refund, and what percentage of dividends were in excess of the
refund. Furthermore, demand could be stimulated by eliminating the holding
period for approved shares (under incentive laws), )rovided that secondary
purchasers were to receive no investment credit, and the original purchasers
were not allowed to take capital loss. In other words, it should be
recognized that the tax incentive has served its purpose once the company
received the infusion of equity, and the initial investor should then be free
to re-sell his shares and take his loss or profit.
21.      Preferential income tax rules exist for companies who list their
shares on the Stock Exchange. Listed companies are taxed at a marginal rate
of 40%, versus 50% for unlisted companies. There has been discussion of
increasing the spread between these rates as a means of further encouraging
equity issues. The present spread would, however, appear to already provide
significant incentives, and an additional increase would probably make the
subsidy element larger than desirable.
22.      Improving debt recovery legislation should provide a stimulus to the
demand for equity. It is reasonable to assume tht this demand is dampened in
part by the excessive leverage of many listed companies. If the existing
distortions in the relative prices of debt and equity financing were removed,
and companies thus encouraged to have capital structures which better
reflected their business risks, the claims of equity holders on the
companies' earnings streams would be strengthened. Potential investors would
find equity issues less risky and therefore more attractive investments.
23.      Demand for stocks is also dampened by the subsidy given to savings
deposits at the National Savings Bank (NSB). These rates are subsidized in
two ways: one-third of the interest received by NSB account-holders is free
from tax (despite the fact that the NSB's rate is already equal to or better



Page 6 of 8
-46-
than market rates for deposits), and the NSB Act requires GOSL to cover NSB's
operating definits, which means NSB has no incentive to reduce rates to where
costs would be covered by income from investments. The Impact of these
subsidy meclanisms is to raise the effective risk-free :.ate available to
investors, in turn raising the yield they would require to move their funds
from risk-free instruments to share investments.
24.      Demand for equity could also be stimulated by measures to strengthen
existing and potential institutional investors, such as CDIC, the DFIs, the
insurance companies, the Employees Trust Fund (ETF) as well as planned
portfolio management companies and Unit Trusts. Also, support for the
Securities Council and, at a later stage, investment research firms, is
likely to further encourage potential investors.
Institutional DeveloRment
25.      The Capital Development and Investment Corporation (CDIC), started
in 1923, was the first Sri Lankan institution created specifically for the
purpose of makirg equity investments. As of March 31, 1988, CDIC held an
equity portfolio valued at cost at Rs 70.8 million (US$2.3 million
equivalent). Its total investments in the twelve months ended March 31, 1988
amounted to Rs 16.v million. Its role to date has been limited to equity
participation in new projects, with little turnover of its portfolio.
financial returns have been unimpressive and are constrained by the lack of
exit mechanisms for most of its shareholdings. With suitable institution-
building assistance, CDIC could significantly increase its activity if the
suppiy of quality equity issues increases. A more detailed review of CDIC's
activities is held in the Project File.
26.      While the two DFIs provide both debt and equity financing, equity
has become a smaller and smaller part of their financing mix. Equity
investments of DFCC (Rs 8.6 million) and NDB (Rs 10.0 million) accounted for
1.7% of 1987 disbursements, compared with 8.5% in 1983. While in DFCC's case
this can be explained in part by its constraint in terms of the availability
of local-currency funds, the two institutions' low level of equity investment
is primarily due to (a) poor analysis of the adequacy of projects' capital
structures, and (b) low demand from spon3ors for equity finaace when they can
meet up to 70% of their total capital needs with low-cost debt. DFI staff's
ability to analyze th.e credit risk of potential investments can be improved
through in part through training. The demand for equity financing, as
discussed above, should be increased through better debt recovery ligislation
and higher pricing of debt for riskier or more highly leveraged projects.
27.      The (ETF), created in 1980, manages funds totalling Rs 2.33 billion
(US$75.6 million equivalent) as of December 31, 1987, and increasing by over
R.s 40 million per month. Of these funds, Rs 106 million, or 4.6%, were
invested in shares quoted on the CSE. The year-end market value of these
shares, Rs 170 million, accounted for 0.9% of the stock market's total
capitalization. Most of the ETF's activity in the stock market, however, has
-come very recently. Rs 72 million, or two-thirds of the ETF's total
investment in quoted shares, was placed in 1987. According to CSE figures,
this would mean ETF accounted for 18% of the totnl turnover on the stock
exchange in 1987. ETF suffers from major structural weaknesses, primarily in



-47-
the areas of manpower, management and institutional strategy. Some
assistance to remedy these problems is provided for under the Technical
Assistance program under the Proposed project and further assistance would be
provided under the aegis of the proposed Industrial Development/Financial
Sector Credit scheduled for FY92. The ETF has the resources to significantly
increase its already najor role in the equity market and could become a major
user of portfolio management services and investor in Unit Trusts when these
become available in Sri Lanka.
28.      The introduction of Unit Trusts in Sri Lanka should also serve to
stimulate the demand for shares. Unit Trusts should be an attractive
investment vehicle for the ETF, which was in part created to increase worker
participation in the ownership and profitg of enterprises but which lacks the
manpower to analyze investment opportunities. They could also serve to
introduce new, smaller investors to the stock market by reducing the
information barrier facing these potential investors and by diversifying the
equity risk for holders of small portfolios. The T.A. program under IDP-III
will assist in the creation a company tht will offer Unit Trusts. This
company, of which DFCC will be the initial promoter, is expected to initially
offer a "safe" portfolio with a nigh portion of liquid investments and a low
portion of equity shares. While this approach may be desirable to reduce the
risk of investment losses on the part of first-time "trial" investors, the
Unit Trust will only serve its purpose of increasing demand for equities by
eventually increasing the portion of shares in it portfolio. In addition to
the Unit Trust to be promoted by DFCC, several local business groups are
contemplating creating funds. The success of these funds, naturally, will
depend largely on the supply of quality stocks, an issue discussed above.
29.      Several other institutional investors, such as the two state-owned
insurance companies, the Employers Provident Fund, private provident Funds,
the National Savings Bank (NSB), and the newly-created private insurance
companies hold considerable pools of long-term resources. If even a small
portion of these resources were used for investment in equities, it would
significantly increase the demand for shares. The EPF alone manages funds
totalling over Rs 15 billion (US$490 million equivalent). EPF's investment
decisions are controlled by the Monetary Board. NSB's assets under
management are only slightly less than EPF's. While in practice 100% of
NSB's assets are placed in Government Securities, only 60% must be so by law.
At present NSB has no incentive to improve yields (or to lower the rate it
offers on savings accounts) because its operating deficits are automatically
covered by the Treasury. Forcing NSB to become self-reliant financially,
among other benefits, would encourage it to allocate a portion of its assets
to higher-yielding investments.
Technical Assistance Under the Proiect
30.      Several components of the Technical Assistance to be provided by IDA
and ADB under this project are expected to benefit the Capital markets in Sri
Lanka. The formation of a Unit Trust, for which a feasibility study is being
provided, and of an Investors Protection Fund are steps that should reduce
some of the risk perceived by potential investors in share investments.
Existing and potential institutional investors, who are all constrained by
lack of trained staff from including equities in their asset portfolios, can



-48-                           Page 8 of
be expected to make use of the planned Portfolio Management Company, which
will make available not only collective investment vehicles such as Unit
Trusts but also investor portfolio management services. A series of
workshops for training in securities activities with a fairly broad audience
should also reduce some of the risk attributed to securities by potential
investors stemming from lack of information. Institutional support for the
two DFIs and CDIC should lead to better investment decisioas on the part of
these institutions, and to the emergence of better-capitalized project issues
on the CSE.



-4Y-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 22
SRI LANMK
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
PERFORMANCE OF PROPOSED PARTICIPATING CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (PCIs)
A. Selection of Institutions
1.       The IDA/ADB Appraisal Missions reviewed the suitability of each of
the five domestic commercial banks in Sri Lanka to fulfill roles as PCIs
under the Project. It was agreed with GOSL and the managements of BOC and
PB that their inclusion as PCIs under the credit component of Project
should not be considered until the ongoing reviews are completed and
satisfactory actions taken to implement the recommendations from the
reviews.
2.       Of the other three commercial banks, Hatton National Bank (HNB),
Commeccial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC) and Sampath Bank (SB), SB has only been in
operation since May 1987. While SB's initial performance has been
impresFive and its management and staffing appear strong, prudence requires
that a track record of at least two years of successful operations,
including industrial term-lending, should be established prior to SB's
inclusion as a PCI. The other two banks have appropriate operational and
financial performance and acceptable staffing to be included as PCIs from
the date of effectiveness of the loan. It is expected that SB will be
included as a PCI from mid-1989, provided it meets the participating
conditions.
National Development Bank
3.       Background.  At the time of the Appraisal Mission, NDB was
implementing the findings of an 'Organizational and New Business
Development Revieww undertaken by consultants under IDA technical
assistance during 1987. The Review's primary objectives were to re-examine
the role and objectives of NDB; recommend revised policies and strategies
for NDB in relation to financial performance and services provided;
identify a priority list of new business development opportunities for NDB;
examine the past and current effectiveness of NDB's operations and
procedures; and identify the most appropriate management and organization
structure for NDB's future operations.
4.       A revised strategy, which has been accepted by NDB's Board
provides for a sharper focus on profitability of institutional
reorganization and identification of commercially-oriented lending
proposals; a diversification of NDB's resource base principally through
mobilization of rupee funds; and limited diversification of operations to
provide a stronger emphasis on loans syndication, underwriting and
financial restructuring activities.



-50-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 22
5.       Technical assistance, (Annex 5) will be provided by IDA under the
Project to address directly areas of weakness identified by the consultants
and to provide ezpertise for the development of new areas for NDB's future
operations. The key features of the technical assistance will be the
provision of two ezperts who will be employed in line management positions
within NDB for up to 18 months with the objective of fully developing the
capabilities of counterparts as well as undertaking required tasks to
implement corporate reorganization and the new strategies. These experts
will be designated as Corporate Planning and Development Manager and
Personnel Development Manager. In addition, up to nine man-months of
capital market consulting expertise will be provided as required to assist
in such areas as domestic funds mobilization; strengthening of treasury
operations and the structuring management and underwriting of proposals for
the privatization of public enterprises.
6.       Organization.  NDB's recently reorganized structure provides for a
more logical grouping of functions than previously, incorporates a more
dispersed level of delegated decision-making authority and includes new
management positions for Personnel Development, Treasurer and Corporate
Planning and Development. The revised structure, which is likely to evolve
further during the next three years provides an appropriate response to the
recommendations of the 1987 Review.
7.       Management.  NDB's Board meets once a month to set policies and to
approve all loan anct investment proposals. The Board also makes decisions
on all matters relating to staff appointments, promotions and salaries.
The Chairman of the Board and the General Manager, who is the chief
executive of NDB, are both capable and experienced and maintain a good
working relationship. Under the General Manager are four capable Assistant
General Managers taking care of the day-to-day supervision of the various
operating departments. GOSL has agreed that the appointment of a new
General Manager of ND! will be made only after prior consultation with IDA.
8.       Staff and Training.  Given that the overall increase in total
assets for the period was 90X, the data indicate that NDB has not developed
the economies of scale that might have been expected for its operations and
that staff numbers have been allowed to increase too quickly. NDB is aware
of this potential problem and at present have a very selective recruitment
policy whereby only staff with required specialist skills are being added
to the overall staff complement. NDB's professional staff turnover has
been maintained at reasonable levels during the period 1985-1987 following
a relatively high staff turnover of 31.12 during 1984. Improvements during
1986 in the salaries and benefits provided to staff have reduced the
numbers of resignation. The establishment in 1984 of a Manpower Planning
Unit has also been effective in retaining staff through improve staff
relations and staff training. A key task of this unit has been to
undertake management planning and staff development activities. All staff
training is undertaken in terms of critical skill areas for NDB's future
operations that have been or are being identified.



-51-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 22
9.       Operational Performance.  NDB's operational policies are governed
by its Act and more particularly by its Operating Policy Statement. GOSL
and NDB will consult with IDA before making any significant amendments to
the Policy Statement. The amended Operating Policy Statement, adopted by
NDB's Board on March 5, 1988 sets out financial criteria for NDB's
operations including a maximum debt/equity ratio of 4:1, a maximum single
enterprise exposure of 102 of NDB's equity and a maximum equity investment
exposure in a single enterprise of 52 of equity subject to a further
maximum of 25Z of the total equity of the project concerned. These
guidelines have always been complied with. Although NDB's amended policy
statement provides for an increased focus on expanded operations to develop
Sri Lanka's capital markets, the major operational emphasis remains on
NDB's role as a project promoter and financier providing financial
facilities in local and foreign currency to assist in the development of
public and private industries in Sri Lanka. Such assistance is provided
through (i) medium and long-term loans for fixed assets and permanent
working capital requirements; (ii) refinancing of loans made by other
banking institutions through the operation of the SMI Fund; (iii) equity
investment; (iv) syndication and underwriting of equity and debenture
issues; and (v) equipment financing and leasing activities; and
(vi) guarantee operations. NDB's involvement to date in equity,
underwriting and guarantee operations has been limited.
10.      NDB end use procedures and project supervision is satisfactory.
During project implementation, regular site visits are carried out by NDB
staff who monitor progress of implementation and operating performance.
Progress reports submitted by clients are reviewed, and actual expenditures
are compared with original entimates.  During the subloar repayment period,
project financial performance is monitored through staff visits and review
of audited financial statements.
11.      Lending Operations.  Having rebounded strongly from the declioe of
1983 caused by the civil disturbances in July 1983, NDB's approval levels
increased by 50X in 1984 over 1983 levels and achieved a sustained 20.7Z
average growth rate during 1984-1987. Disbursements levels have been
satisfactory and have been marginally higher than approval levels,
indicating that projects have generally been implemented on schedule.
12.      Projected approval levels for FY88-92 are summarized in Table 1.



-52-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 22
Table l: PROJECTED APPROVALS
(1988-1992)
(Re Million)
Average
Growth
FY ended 31 Dec.      1987    1988    1989      1990    1991    1992   Rate (Z)
Combined (A+B)
Loans                581       705     790     855      940   1,030    12.1
Equity
investments           36       35       38      43       47      52      7.6
SMI refinance          122      400      400     390      400     400    26.8
Total                  739    1,140   1,288   1,288    1,387   1,482    15.0
13.      NDBSL is expecting an average annual increase in approval levels
for direct lending operations of about 12.0Z between 1987 and 1992.
Foreign currency loan approvals are projected to increase by 21Z while
local currency loan approval levels will increase at an annual rate of
6.81. These projections are conservatively based, particularly in view of
the increase in GOSLs industr4A*  4,ntormnnIa   * t..1A 1  -         Sr- r-..
implementation of the recently adopted IPS and the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of industries adversely affected by the final resolution of
the ethnic conflict.
14.      Acounting, Auditing and Financial Control.  NDB has sound
accounting systems and procedures. Up-to-date and reliable operational and
financial data are efficiently generated by NDB's accounting system for use
by management and operating personnel as well as for meeting the reporting
requirements of creditors. NDB's accounts are audited annually by the
Auditor General in accordance with the statutory requirements relating to
State Enterprises.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 22
Table 2: NDBt SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL
POSITION - KEY INDICATORS
FY ended 31 December          1984     1985      1986       1987
Ratios: /a
Debt/equity ratio            0.40       0.6       0.81      1.20
Debt service coverage
ratio (times)              6.15      4.27      3.49       3.12
Return on equity (Z)         12.1      10.6        8.7       7.1
Interest spread               6.8       7.2       2.4        2.8
Earnings spread              12.2     10.69       7.53      4.49
Operating expenses/
average total
assets (2)                  1.3       1.3       1.2        1.0
Current ratio (times)       7.5tl     5.7:1     6.1:1      7.4:1
Collection ratio (X)           63        77         79        80
15.      Financial Performance.  NDB k-as retained a conservative financial
structure with a strong reliance on equity funding and a debt/equity ratio
that stood at 1.20 at the end of FY87. Consequently, debt -service
coverage has been strong at more than three times but return on eq4ity has
been modest and has declined from 12.2! in 1984 to 7.1! for 1987. A major
cause of this decline has been declining average interest spreads and a
change in accounting policy since 1986 that has not recognized income on
loans with arrears of six months or older. To significantly improve this
situation, NDB will need to rapidly increase its portfolio size while
maintaining staff levels and arrears at current levels. NDB's management
has reviewed the actions it could take to improve profitability including
constraints on staffing levels, a wider range of interest rates and efforts
to increase portfolio size.
16.      Internal cash generation accounted for 242 of NDB's funding since
1983. Borrowings, most of which were from ADB and IDA, accounted for more
than 47!. Disbursements of loans and equity investments utilized 88.6! of
NDB's funds reflecting NDB's relative youth as an institution and its high
proportion of equity funding. As grace periods expire on NDB's initial
borrowings, its debt service requirements will become more significant.
17.      Portfolio Management. As of December 31, 1987, the metal chemical
and engineering products accounted for 21.0! of NDB's portfolio followed by
the tourist hotel sector at 14.2!. Lending to tourism projects has been
dormat since 1983 when such loans accounted for 34! of the portfolio. This
decrease in hotel lending reflects the depressed state of Sri Lanka's



-54-
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 22
tourist industry since 1983. Despite a substantial GOSL/CBSL refinancing
of hotel loans undertaken in 1986, the tourist hotel industry still remains
in a very poor financial position and a major package of further Government
financial assistance is currently being completed by CBSL. The remainder
of NDB's portfolio is spread prudently over a range of industrial sectors.
18.      An analysis of NDBIs arrears situation during 1984-87 indicates a
satisfactory collection ratio of 80 for 1987. However, NDB's arrears will
require close monitoring. The FY87 overall arrears ratio 11 of 5.82 and
the principal infection ratio 21 of 142 indicate that without ongoing
attention to hardcore arrears, NDB could develop an unsatisfactory
portfolio. NDB's management has recognized this situation and is taking
appropriate collection action.
19.      Projected Financial Performance.  As noted on Table 3 NBB is
projecting improving for FY88-FY92 profitability, a sound financial
position and adequate liquidity.  The rate of return on equity is
anticipated to decline initially as a result of a significant drop in
average interest spread caused by high disbursements from the SHI Fund,
which yield a 12 margin. Profitability is then expected to recover. The
key to improving profitability will lie in NDB's ability to maintain a
strong rate of growth in its loan portfolio, to exercise control of
arrears, and to diversify its operations to increase fee-earning
activities. NDB's management has taken full account of these requirements
in developing a revised operating strategy. No difficulties are
anticipated in NDB meeting the covenanted maximum debt/equity ratio of 46l
and the covenanted minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.2sl.
1/ The ratio of total arrears to total outstanding loan portfolio.
21 The ratio of total principal outstanding of loans that are in arrears
to total principal outstanding.



-55-
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 22
Table 3: SUMMARY OF PROJECTED FINANCILL PERFORMANCE
AND FINANCIAL POSITIONS - KEY INDICATORS
Actual
YY ended 31 December     1987      1988    1989     1990      1991    1992
Ratios:
Debt/equity ratio     1.2:1    1.4:1    1.7:1    1.9:1    2.1:1    2.3sl
Debt service
coverage (Z)          3.12     3.46      2.18     2.18      2.2       1.8
Return on equity (X)   7.11       6.7      7.5      9.1     11.4      13.2
Interest spread        2.81     2.17       2.4      2.5      2.9      2.9
Earnings spread        4.49      4.64     4.58     4.47     4.53      4.57
Operating expense/
average total
assets (Z)             1.0      0.8       0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8
Current ratio (times) 7.4:1    4.2:l    4.9sl    4.6:1    3.8sl    4.1:l
20.      NDBSL's financing plan for 1988 to 1992 is realistic and feasible.
The largest sources of funds are projected to be borrowuings (40X) and
portfolio recoveries (40X) respec.tively and internal cash generation
(19X). The major application of funds will be for disbursement of loans
(64?) with disbursement of share investment (10X). Debt-service
requirements are projected to increase to 272.
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
21.      Background.  DFCC underwent a review exercise similar to that of
NDB during 1987. The review was completed during January 1988 and a
revised strategy for 1988-1993 was adopted by DFCC's Board in March 1988.
22.      The technical assistance to be provided DFCC's by IDA under IDP3
will specifically strengthen senior management through the provision of
three long-term experts who will fill the positions of Corporate Planning
and Development Manager, Personnel Development Manager and Merchant Banking
Manager for periods of up to 18 months. The experts will be required to
assist in the identification of counterparts for these positions, and to
ensure they will be able to meet effectively the requirements of the
respective positions by the end of the consultant's contracted employment.
A priority task for the Corporate Planning and Development expert will be
tlFo drafting, for Board consideration, of a new Policy Statement that more
adequately reflects DFCC's current environment and provides guidelines
appropriate to the recently adopted Strategy Statement.



-56-
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 22
23.      oraanizational Mana8ement and Staffing.  DFCC's current
organization structure has been adequate for its present operation has
remained largely unchanged duriLg the past decade. DFCC's operations are
controlled and closely supervised by its Board of Directors. DFCC's
General Manager is well qualified and has appropriate experience with
respect to the requirements of the position. Training activities should be
carried out with more planning and an objective of long-term development of
key staff. DFCC's management has already recruited a suitable counterpart
for the proposed Personnel Development under proposed IDA TA.
24.      Operational Performance.  DFCC's procedures for project appraisal
and supervision are generally satisfactory. A separate Project
Implementation Department is responsible for project supervision. Well-
designed procedures are followed for loan documentation, disbursement and
supervision.
25.      DFCC's approvals showed strong growth during FY84-FY81.  Net
approvals increased at an average annual rate of 32.5 indicating a strong
recovery in investment activity from the slump that occurred in 1983 and
1984. Disbursement performance has been satisfactory indicating
satisfactory performance in subproject implementation.
26.      Projected Operations.  DFCC's projected operations for the period
FY88-FY92 are sulmmarized in Table 4.
Table 4_ PROJECTED NET APPROVALS
FY1987/88-FY1991192
(Re Million)
Average
Actual                                          Growth Rate
PY ended March 31        1987    1988    1989   1990    1991   1992         (Z)
Combined (A+B)Loans       591     660      680    765      865      975      10
Leasing                    43      65       75     85        90     100      18
Share investments          13      25       55     60       60       65      38
TOTAL                     647     750      810    91O    1,015   1,140       12
27.      The projections take into account the present political situation
in Sri Lanka and the possible impact on investment activities. Based on
DFCC's historical performance and current strong project pipeline, the
projections are realistic and conservative. Over the forecast period, DFCC
expects to increase its loan approvals at an average annual rate of about
101. Net approvals of foreign currency loans are projected to have an
average growth rate of 19Z.



ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 22
28.      Accounting, Audit and Financial Control.  DFCC maintains sound
accounting systems and procedures which are in accordance with generally
accepted accounting practices. The installation of fully computerized
accounting systems vill be completed by the end of 1986. DFCC's accounts
are audited annually by a private accounting firm. DFCC's long-form audit
reports have been submitted to IDA in a timely manner. DFCC vill be
required to continue sending the long-fort. audit reports within four months
of year end.
Table 5:  SUMMARY OF DFCC'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE E
FINANCIAL POSITION - KEY INDICATORS
FY1984-FY1987
FY ended March 31              1984  1985  1986  1987
Ratiost
Debt/equity ratio               3.8:1 4.3:1 6.2:l 6.7sl
Debt service coverage
(times)                        1.1   1.2   1.3   2.0
Return on equity (2)            9.3  10.3  16.3  20.5
Interest spread                 5.7   3.4   3.9   4.2
Earnings spread                 5.5   4.0   3.8   4.5
Operating expenses/ 
average total asset (2)        1.3   1.3   1.0   1.0
Current ratio (times)           2.1   1.6   3.2   3.2
Collection ratio (2)           65.3  80.9  78.8  85.1
/a Net of provision for doubtful account.
29.      Financial Performance.  DFCC's net income after tax increased from
Rs 14.4 million (FY84) to Rs 47.6 million (FY87) largely as a result of
increased lending volumes. The lopn portfolio achieved a 36.11 average
growth rate during the same time span, from Rs 556.8 million in FY84 to
Rs 1,405.0 million at the end of FY87 as long-term debt grew at a similar
rate to Ru 1,558.5 million as of March 31, 1987 from Rs 584.8 miluion at
.he end of FY84. DFCC's return on equity has increased to a healthy 20.5Z
fDr FY87 compared to 9.3Z in FY84. This increase vas generated despite a
change in accounting policy at the end of 1985 whereby DFCC stopped
'accruing income on loans with arrears of six months or older. DFCC's
debt/equity ratio increased to 6.7:1 in FY87 from the FY84 figure of 3.8sl.
The growth in this ratio, coupled with the improved DFCC's return on
equity, indicates that DFCC has made appropriate use of its financial
leverage. Table 5 summarizes DFCCs key financial ratios.



-58-
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 22
30.      Since 1984, loan disbursements accounting for 60.22 of total
resources with debt servicing accounting for 27.3Z. Borrowings contributed
the major portion of source of funds (57.8Z) and internal cash generation
together with loan collection providing 40.6?.
31.      Portfolio Management.  During 1984-1987, DFCC's total portfolio
increased in line with its accelerated lending operations. Tourist hotel
loans declined from 32.6? on total portfolio to 19.2Z at the end of FY87.
This decrease was due mainly to a conscious management decision to
diversify DFCC's portfolio away from tourism and into sectors such as food
and beverage products, rubber products, light engineering and
pharmaceuticals. While hotel loans still constitute a large proportion of
DFCC's portfolio, the portfolio is now relatively well balanced. However,
the earlier concentration on hotel lending has had a significant impact on
DFCC's financial position and quality of its portfolio. Prior to the civil
disturbances in 1983, DFCC's arrears were Rs 37 million or 8? of total
portfolio. By the end of FY85 arrears had increased to Rs 115 million, or
14Z of the total portfolio, with defaulting loans concentrated in the
tourist hotel sector or in geographical areas significantly affected by the
civil disturbances. In April 1985, the Government provided a refinancing
of Rs 14.3 million of DFCC's hotel arrears, with funding provided at 6Z
interest through the CBSL. As of March 31, 1987, arrears including
rescheduled amounts were Rs 85 million or 5? of total portfolio. Four
sectors garments - (23Z), textiles (182), rubber products (171) and
construction materials (132)) accounted for 71Z of arrears.
32.      With the increase in arrears, DFCC's collection rate decreased.
failing from 70Z (FY82) to 60? (FY85) although as of March 31, 1987, the
rescheduling of the hotel arrears and more rigorous end use activity have
improved collections to 85.1?. DFCC has reacted positively to the
increasing arrears by implementing a comprehensive portfolio restructuring
program covering all projects in arrears of six months or more. The
program provides for a detailed review/reappraisal of each project and
agreement with the sponsor and other creditors on specific action programs
to liquidate the arrears based upon cash flows generated by asset sale,
product/operation rationalization or foreclosing on securities.
33.      Prolected Financial Performance and Resource Position.  DFCC is
projected to maintain reasonable profitability throughout the period.
Return on equity is expected to remain at a level of around 20.0? as a
direct result of the projected increase in the value of DFCC's loan
portfolio and improvement in its quality. DFCC's financial projections are
realistic and attainable. DFCC's equity investment portfolio is projected
to increase at an annual rate of 282, from Rs 82.5 million (FY87)
to Rs 280.0 (FY92). The covenanted maximum return on net worth of 9? will
be retained. The maximum debt/equity ratio will be increased from 7:1 to
8:1; reflecting DFCC's growing commercialization and the need to ensure
that DFCC's ability to utilize commercially acceptable leveraging



-59-
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 22
techniques is not unduly constrained. Reflecting the need to ensure
prudent liquidity management under the related debt/equity constraint,
DFCC's minimum debt service coverage covenant will be increased from 1.1 to
1.2. The financial projections, indicate that DFCC should not encounter
difficulties in maintaining a sound financial performance and in complying
with proposed covenants. Table 6 sumarizes DFCCs projects ratios.
Table 6s SMUO(RY OF PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
AND FINANCILL POSITION - KEY INDICATORS
FY ended              Actual
March 31             1986/87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92
Ratios:
Debt/equity ratio      6.7sl    6.5:1   7.2sl   6.6:1   6.2:1   5.9sl
Debt service
coverage (s)         1.9      2.1     2.2      2.0     2.1      2.1
Return on equity (S) 22.2      22.2    19.7    22.8    21.8    19.4
Interest spread        4.2      4.1     3.6      4.0     4.0      3.9
Earnings spread        4.5      4.7      4.1     4.6     4.6      4.6
Operating expense/
average total
assets (2)           1.0      1.1     1.1      1.1     1.0      0.9
Current ratio (
(times)             3.2       3.4     3.3      3.0     2.8     2.4
/a  Net of provision for doubtful debts.
34.      The major sources of finance are projected to be borrowings (392),
internal cash generation (262) and portfolio recoveries 35Z. The bulk of
fund applications will be for disbursement of loans and leasing (62.3Z)
while debt service requirements will be 28.72 of the total funds
requirements over the forecast period.
COMMERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON LTD.(CBOC)
35.      Background.  CBOC was incorporated in 1969 as a public company.
It commenced operations in November 1969 by taking over the operations of
the Colombo branch of the Eastern Bank Limited (EBL). Statutory
restrictions on branch expansion by local branches of foreign banks
directly led to the creation of CBOC with the Standard Chartered Bank,
which acquired EBL in 1957, owning 402 of the CBOC's equity.



-60-
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 22
36.      As of 31 December 1987, CBOC's outstanding paid-up capital stood
at Re 30 million while accumulated reserves amounted to Rs 263 million.
The Standard Chartered Bank holds 402 through four state enterprises, (30?)
are private individual shareholders (302). CBOC's operations have been
predominantly private sector in orientation and are characterized by a
strong profit motivation. Foreign trade related transactions dominate the
bank's activities largely as a result of its association with Standard
Chartered Bank. While development financing activities constitute a
relatively small portion of its business, CBOC has recognized the need to
be core actively involved in financing the primary producing sectors of the
economy.
37.      Organization, Management and Staffing.  CBOC has a network of 15
branches covering the major regions of the country. Five branches are
located in Colombo, of which one is exclusively for customers involved in
international trade. All basic banking operations, including credit
extensions, are carried out at the branches. Credit approval authorities
and limits for each branch are clearly laid down. The Head Office (HO) in
Colombo provides centralized functions including internal audit, accounts,
administration, personnel and training and branch supervision.
38.      CBOC's major policies are formulated by its Board of Directors
composed of nine members. The Standard Chartered Bank and the government
have two directors each. The Managing Director is responsible for the day-
to-day operation of the Bank. He is supported in this task by three
Assistant General Managers (AGMs) who also head cpnc.s moa4   ^,-i
divisions: namely International and Credit, Finance and Administration.
Total staffing is 1,179.  CBOC has a higher manpower density considering
that it has only 15 branches.  This mainly attributed to the relatively                   I
large-scale of operations existing of some of CBOC branches.
39.      CBOC places a heavy emphasis on staff traininig.  All new hirees go
through an Induction Course for a period of two weeks. Regular in-house
training course are held for existing staff members to enhance professional
skills. These are held at CBOC's Training Center and are conducted by the
bank's senior staff members. These programs are mainly in the areas of
general commercial banking operations, and supervisory and management
techniques. Additionally, selected staff members are sent to external
training courses held locally and abroad the Standard Chartered Bank group
and other international financing agencies to augment their knowledge of
certain specialized areas such as SMI financing and appraisals and
monitoring of long-term industrial projects.
40.      CBOC's outstanding earning assets as of the end of December 1987
stood at Rs 3.57 billion vis-a-vis Rs 2.82 billion (FY86). This 26.6?
increase largely resulted from a 36.82 increase in outstanding bills of
exchange and a 25.8? increase in advances. Outstanding advances accounted
for 80.62 of earning assets as of 31 December 1987. In turn, earning
assets accounted for 87.4? of CBOC's comparatively high level of gross
revenues. CBOC's involvement in development financing has been limited to
term financing for the SMI sector and short-term agricultural financing.
SM1 lendings under IDA's lending programs are restricted to existing



-61-
ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 22
clients. CBOC's SMI operations are handled by a separate unite under the
International and Credit Division which has four full-time qualified staff.
Additionally, 32 staff members situated at the various branches work part-
tin on SMI. As of 31 December 1987, CBOC's SMI lending was
Rs 88.6 million collection ratio for SMI-II has improved from 70.42 in 1986
to 89.86 in 1987.
41.      The Corporate Credit Department (CCD) will handle the term
lendings to medium and large industries under the proposed project. CCD
has a total manpower complement of 12, of which 4 are officers. It is
headed by a senior executive with ten years experience in banking including
five years experience in project financing. It will be necessary to have
at least two of CCD's senior staff attend overseas training courses in
evaluation, supervision and monitoring of industrial projects.
Additionally, training will be required in the area of the Bank's
reporting, supervision and disbursement procedures to enable CEOC tv
develop its own in-house procedures for monitoring procurements consistent
with acceptable bank practices.
42.      Portfolio Quality.  The overall portfolio is classified according
to the following categories: (a) current or performing; and (b) bad and
doubtful. Accounts with arrears of six months or more are classified as
bad and doubtful. Bad and daubtful loans account for 13.42 of outstanding
portfolio while accumulated provisions represent 41.42 of outstanding bad
and doubtful loans as of 31 December 1987. Out of the bad and doubtful
loans, CBOC's analysis shows that 37.62 is recoverable which 47.42 is
considered doubtful and 152 is considered probable loss.
Table 7:  SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS
(1984 TO 1986)
1984      1985       1986      1987
Ratios:
Liquid assets to total
assets (2)                          23        21         24        25
Advances to deposits (Z)            112       106         98        102
Risk assets to equity            12.2:1    11.0:1    10.9:1       12.2
Deposits to total assets (2)         63        68         71         69
43.      Financial Position.  CBOC's overall profitability is adequate and
has improved considerably in 1987 vis-a-vis the previous year. After tax
profits in 1987 was~ Rs 51 million, or 102 of gross revenues generated.
This reflects a substantial 712 increase from 1986's net earnings of Rs 30
million whish, in turn was 42.82 higher than the year earlier level.
Interest earnings continue to be the major contributor to CBOC's revenues
accounting for 75.12 of total while fee based revenues accounted for 20.02.
The substantial growth recorded in interest earnings is due to the 25.72



ANNEX 4
Page 14 of 22
expansion in CBOC's advances portfolio which were financed mainly by the
21.51 growth recorded in total deposits. CBOC's rates on advances ranges
from 142 to 231 while deposit rates range from 9 to 11 1/22. Interest
expenses constitute 522 of total expenses in 1987. CBOC's interest spread,
at 8.532 (FY87) has increased from the 7.83S recorded in 1986. Earnings
spread was at 8.93Z (FY87) and has increased from the 1984 level of 7.18S.
Table 8: SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS
(1984 to 1987)
Year ended 31 December                    1984    1985    1986    1987
Earning per share (Rs)                    7.61    6.96    9.99   17.00
Net profit/gross income (S)               5.40    5.02    7.00    9.92
Return on average total assets (Z)        0.85    0.70    0.97    1.38
Return on average total assets (Z) la  10.63    8.76    7.32    7.27
Return on average equity (Z)             11.17    9.54   12.40   18.47
Interest spread (7)                       7.18    7.07    8.33    8.93
/a Net income plus interest expense.
HATTON NATIONAL BANK
44.      Back8Lround.  Hatton National Bank Limited (HNB) was established as
a limited liability company in March 1970 after combining the resources of
the local branches of Grindlays Bank Ltd. with Hatton Bank Ltd., a domestic
bank established in 1888. In 1974, HNB acquired the Colombo branch of the
Mercantile Bank Ltd. HNB has the largest branch network among the
country's privately-owned commercial banks.
45.      As of 31 December 1987, HNB's paid-up capital was Rs 20 million;
261 of the share capital is owned by the Brown Group, a well established
and diversified company involved in manufacture of agricultural implements,
construction and trading; 191 is held by Cargo Boat Dispatch Ltd. while the
balance of 552 is distributed among many individual and institutional
shareholders. HNB's outstanding equity, including reserves, was Rs 237
million as of 31 December 1987 compared to FY86 level Rs 211 million, an
increase of 122.



-b .-
ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 22
46.      Organization, Management and Staffing.  HNB has 33 operating
branches, 25 of which are situated outside of Colombo. The HO provides
overall supervision and control over these banking units particularly in
the area of cash and credit operations. Other functions including,
internal audit, central accounts, administration and personnel are likewise
centralized at the HO. HNB's international operations are handled by its
International Division and by a limited number of branches.
47.      HNB's Board of Directors is composed of seven members elected
annually by the shareholders. The Managing Director, who is also a member
of the Board, is responsible for the day-to-day operations of tho bank. He
is assisted by a Deputy General Manager and six Assistant Gene2ral Managers
(AGM) who are directly responsible for the operations of tne bank's major
operating divisions namelyt Operations, Development. international, Central
Crodit, Personnel and Administration and Banking services Divisions.  HNB's
existing organizational set-up reflects the results of a major
organizational review which was undertaken in 1984. This review
highlighted the need to have additional depth at the middle management
level in order to relieve senior officers (AGMs) of some perfunctory and
operational duties. Branches are headed by officers whose rank vary
depeading of the size the branch's resources.
48.      As of 31 December 1987, HNB total staffing was 1,421, of which 325
are classified as officers, i.e., Executives (six levels) and junior
officers. About three years ago, HNB experienced a relatively high staff
turnover rate. This was attributable to an exodus to more lucrative offers
from Middle East banks. Staff turnover dropped considerably in 1986 but
rose again in 1987. Migration remained the major contributory factor in
the turnover of personnel at HNl.
49.      HNB places strong emphasis on human resource and manpower
development programs are of in-house training center conducts various
courses throughout the year. During 1987, 450 staff members received
training. In addition, selected officers are also regularly sent abroad to
attend training and refresher courses in general management, commercial
banking as well as development financing.
50.      Operations.  HEBN provides a wide range of banking services from
deposit servicing to the extension of various credit facilities. Owing to
the short-term character of its funds, financing packages have been of
short maturities. These are mainly in the form of working capital
advances, overdrafts and import/export financing. These facilities, which
have a maximum maturity of one year and are rev 'ving in nature, are
utilized mainly by traders and businessmen. Finat%ing the requirements of
the key production sectors has remained at modest levels. SMI lending,
through participation in the NDBSL refinance scheme, has been HNB's major
involvement in term financing. Tenm loans utilizing its own funds have
been given only to very good clients and on a lizJted basis. HiB has
conservatively pursued a policy of keeping maturity gaps between sources
and uses of funds at comfortable levels.



-64-
ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 22
51.      HNB has been an active participant in IDA's Small and Medium
Industry (SMI) lending programs. In order to qualify for assistance,
applicants are required to have an account with HNB for at least six
months. Moreover, the project site must be accessible to an ENB branch for
supervision and monitoring of the project. As of 31 December 1987, HNB's
SMI lending was Rs 71.3 million. As of 31 December 1987, total collections
as a percentage of principal due was 79.62 for SMI I and 87.82 for SMI II.
Annual collection ratios were 60Z and 74Z for SMI I and SMI II,
respectively in 1986. These improved to 652 and 942 for SKI I and II in
1987.
52.      HNB's performance under SMI 1 & 2 has been satisfactory.  Its
senior management has shown a firm commitment to the program and has
provided a satisfactory effort to upgrade staff skills for development
financing. HNB's SMI lendings are handled by the SMI unit under its
Development Division at the HO which is staffed by five officers. in
addition, 42 staff at the branches work on SMI financing proposals, of
which 2 are on a full time basis. With HNB's growing involvement in SMI
term lending operations, an increasing number of staff members are being
trained mainly through courses sponsored by NDBSL in the project appraisal,
end-use supervision, project monitoring and in the rehabilitation of six
projects. HNB's Training Division recently conducted seminarslworkshops on
project-oriented lending and on the problems and issues in SMI financing.
Apart from those directly or indirectly involved in SMI lending, 77 other
staff members have completed training courses in project appraisal.
53.      HNB's Development Division handles SMI and agricultural lendings.
Larger loans, including term loans to medium and large industries under
various refinance schemes of the Government, are handled by CCD. To meet
the staffing and organizational requirements of IDP3, HNB will establish a
separate unit under the CCD with an initial staff complement of three
officers who each have at least fifteen years general banking experience.
They have also attended training courses in project appraisal and follow up
sponsored locally by NDB and National Institute Bank Management (NIBM).
Expertise on the technical aspects of projects will initially be provided
by qualified engineering consultants. 51NB will make use of a panel of
professional valuers to provide the required assistance in determining the
price reasonableness of machinery and equipment to be financed. HNB
however indicated its intention to hire 2 or 3 qualified technical officers
to augment the appraisal capabilities of the Unit. this proposed
arrangement is deemed adequate. There is however a need to further
strengthen and upgrade HNB's project appraisal and supervision skills.
Greater emnphasis on financial and economic analysis will be necessary under
the proposed project.
54.      Portfolio Quality.  HBN classifies its advances portfolio ast  (a)
current or performing; (b) overdue; (c) irregular; (d) past due; and (e)
bad and doubtful. As of the end of 1987, 23Z of HNB's portfolio shows
varying degrees of arrears, of which 10 is considered non-performing.
HNBs' provision for doubtful accounts is equivalent to 312 of accounts of
doubtful recovery. In relation to bad and doubtful loans, the provision is
equivalent to 63S. Total provisions for bad debts are adequate.



ANNEX 4
Page 17 of 22
55.      Financial Position.  HNB has consistently shown satisfactory
profitability. Profit after tax in 1987 was Rs 31 million representing an
l1S increase from the Re 28 million in 1986. Profits before taxes were Rs
49 million or 152 of gross revenues earned, while return on average equity
was 13.9?. The declining trend exhibited in gross revenues since 1984 was
reversed in 1987 when HNB registered a 52 improvement. The increase in
revenues however is largely attributable to the 30Z growth in exchange
profits and the modest gain of 22 in interest income. HNB has had a
comfortable level of fee based revenues which has enabled it to cushion the
impact of decreasing interest income during the recent past. There has
been a decline in the general level of interest which has affected HiNB's
revenues and expenses. HNB's earnings and interest spread amounted to
9.33Z and 9.071 respectively in 1987. Although these have been decreasing
since 1984, they remain comparatively highi by commercial banking standards.
The average nominal margin of about 122 is more than sufficient to cover
reserve requirements (132 of deposits) and other non-earning assets. HNB's
net income in 1987 is net of the Rs 17.5 million additional provision for
loan losses made during the year. Table 9 summarizes HNBs financial
position.
Table 9: SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS la
(1984 to 1987)
Year ended 31 December               1984       1985      1986       1987
Ratios:
Liquid assets to total
assets (2)                         33         32        31         39
Advances to deposits (2)            94        101        99         94
Risk assets to equity           10.3sl    10.1:1      9.7sl      9.6:1
Deposits to total assets (Z)        62         61        63         59
/a Net of contra items.
56.      A summary of HlB's income statements for the period 1984 to 1987
is provided in Table 10.



-66-
ANNEX 4
Page 18 of 22
Table 10. SUMHARY OF INCOME STATEMENTS
(1984 TO 1987)
Year ended 31 December               1984      1985       1986      1987
Earnings per share (Rs)             11.78     12.96      13.80     15.56
Net profit/gross revenues            6.89      7.95       8.75      9.24
Return on average total
assets (S)                          1.03      1.09       1.10      1.06
Return on average total
assets (S) la                       8.81      7.51       6.20      5.50
Return on average equity (S)        14.38     14.52      14.00     13.89
Interest spread (S)                 11.98     10.35       9.44      9.07
Earnings spread (S)                 12.19     10.43       9.75      9.33
/a Including interest paid.
57.      Conclusion.  HNB is a well managed and profitable banking
institution. It has a generally capable and well motivated staff and an
institutional commitment to become increasingly involved in the overall
economic development efforts of the country. Although commercial banking
transactions dominate HNB's activities, it has gradually increased its
involvement in development financing.
58.      SMI financing under IDA lending programs has been HNB's entry
point to project financing which enabled it to acquire sufficient
experience and exposure into long-term development projects. Quite apart
from this, HNB has long been associated with some of the country's leading
enterprises mainly through financing of their trading operations. It has
likewise financed the working capital requirements of industries whose
long-term financing needs have been financed by DFIs. HNB has identified a
pipeline of industrial projects with an estimated project cost cf Rs
56 million in rubber based, chemical, tea and other agro-processing
industries. Given appropriate training and exposure in project financing.
HNB can become an effective and active conduit of long-term funds for
industrial development.
SANPATH BANK LTD.
59.      Background.  Sampath Bank (SB) was incorporated in March 1987 with
an authorized share capital of Rs 500 million are commenced operations in
May 1987 after a successful public offering of its share. Originally
called the Investment and Credit Bank Limited, the bank changed its name to
Sampath Bank in late 1987.



-67-
ANNEX 4
Page 19 of 22
60.      SB's paid-up capital, as of 31 December 1987, was to
Rs 175 million which is substantially higher than the outstanding share
capital of Sri Lanka'a other two private commercial banks. SB's
shareholders are broad based. There are over 12,000 shareholders vith no
single shareholder to own more than 1OZ of its outstanding shares. These
restrictions on shareholdings are provided for in its Articles of
Association.
61.      Organization, Management and Staffing.  All transactions are
currently handled by SB's head office in Colombo. Applications for the
establishment of six branches (three in Colombo and three outstation
branches) have 1een submitted and CBSL has recently given SB permission to
operate three branches in Colombo. SB expects to open at least one branch
before the end of June 1988. A feature of SB's operations is the high
level of mechanization which has resulted in the provision of quick and
efficient service to customers.
62.      SB's Board of Directors consists of eleven members.  The Chairman
of the Board, Mr. N.U. Jayawardena, was at one time the Governor of Central
Bank of Sri Lanka and heads the Mercantile Group of Companies. Operating
management is handled by the Managing Director who is assisted by four
Assistant General Managers (AGMs). These are: Information Technology,
International Projects and Operations. Three other divisions namely,
Marketing, Credit (Retail and Corporate) and Services are currently headed
by Managers. SB recently appointed a professional who has a strong
background in international funds management and trading operations as
Treasurer.
63.      As of December 1987, SB had a total staff of 94, of which 15 are
senior Management. Apart from a supporting staff of 12, the remaining 67
are officers and/or executives. Because of its ai;tomated operations, most
of the clerical requirements have been eliminated. SB has been successful
in attracting well qualified and experienced officers into the organization
fundamentally through a highly competitive compensation package.
64.      Operations.  SB provides a full range of banking services and has
been favorably accepted by the market. Financing activities since 1987
comprised mainly short-term advances, foreign exchange transactions and
import and export financing (including purchase of bills). At the end of
1987, SB's outstanding advances were Rs 429 million, of which about 78.52
or Rs 336 million were in the form of overdrafts and import and export
loans. Term loans accounted for the balance of 21.52. Outstanding bills
purchased amounted to Rs 71.3 million at the end of 1987. In terms of
sectoral distribution, the industrial as well as the coumercial/trading
sectors accounted for 25.62 and 25.92 respectively of outstanding advances.
The other sectors which were provided financial assistance were agriculture
(19.32), transport (15.6Z) and housing and construction (6.62). Most of
these transactions are handled by the Credit Division.



- to -
ANNEX 4
Page 20 of 22
65.      SB has a Projects Division which handles a wide spectrum of
activities related to project and development financing. A pro-active
approach to project financing has been adopted. A program of systematic
project identification and promotion has been developed and implemented. A
number of project concepts have already been solicited and developed and
initial feasibility studies are being prepared by SB staff and by
independent consultants. These feasibility studies will be provided to
potential investors and financing proposals will be formulated with SB
assistance. The Project Division expects to promote 15 to 20 projects with
an estimated total cost of Rs 300 million to a stage of commencement of
operations during 1988.
66.      SB's Project Division has six professional staff members.  It has
processed about 30 term loan proposals, amounting to Rs 39.6 million.
Average maturity of these loans is four years. The Division is headed by
an Assistant General Manager who is a qualified engineer with strong
background in project management financing. Assisting him is a Hanager who
is also an engineer with sufficient experience and exposure in project
financing (SMI lending) having been previously employed at (DFCC).  The
remaining staff members of the Division have technical and business
backgrounds. SB in':ends to hire another experienced project ler.ding
officer with a strong background in financial analysis by next month to
further augment its project capabilities.
67.      Additional training of the Projects Division staff is necessary to
enhance SB's overall capability to effectively handle project financing
proposals. In anticipation of SB's inclusion as a PCI for the project,
upgrading project appraisal, supervision and end-use monitoring skills will
be necessary. SB has identified at least two staff members who would
participate in training courses in the evaluation and supervision of
projects. In addition, SB can benefit from training in the use of
computers for the analysis and appraisal of projects to enhance the overall
quality of its project appraisals and analysis. It would be valuable for
two senior staff of the Projects Division to attend regional on-the-job
training programs in project supervision to widen their exposure and
overall perspective. The insights to be derived from the experiences in
other parts of the region would be of great use to its project
identification and promotion activities. SB will also need to be
introduced to the Bank's procedures and requirements in terms of reporting,
supervision, disbursements and procurements.
68.      Financial Position.  SB's total assets as of 31 December 1987
stood at Rs 760 million. Liquid assets comprised 30Z of total assets while
outstanding advances accounted for 562. SB's current lending rates range
from 16Z per annum to 281 per annum. The higher end of the range applies
mainly to unsecured overdrafts. Interest rates on savings deposit is 92 on
a daily balances while the rates on fixed deposit range from 7Z on 90 days
deposits to 11.5? on one year deposits.  Outstanding deposits amoun*!-  to
Rs 502 million, of which fixed term deposits amounted to Rs 320 million
equivalent to 641 of total. Deposits financed 662 of total assets. Equity
funds, after deducting expenses directly related to the public issue of its
shares, amounted to Rs 170 million accounting for 222 of total assets.



-69-
AhIEX 4
Page 21 of 22
SB's advances to deposit ratio stood at 852 while its risk assets/equity
ration stood at 3.03t1. SB intends to further raise its floatation of
convertible debentures amounting to Rs 250 million late this year and
another public offering of its shares in the next two years.
69.      For the nine-month period ended 31 December 1987, SB's net profits
amounted to RS4.9 million exceeding initial expectations of an operating
loss. The net profit is net of pre-operating expenses amounting to Rs
2.4 million which were wholly written down during the period. Interest
income amounted to Rs 32 million accounting for 78.82 of gross revenues
while fee-based revenues (commissions and exchange profits) accounted for
19.62. Interested expenses amounted to Rs 11.5 million while other
administrative expenses (establishment, equipment and other) amounted to Rs
15.2 million. Staff costs stood at Rs 7.0 million equivalent to 18.72 of
total expenses (.932 of total assets). SB'P return on average equity
amounted to 5.022 at the end of 1987 while interest spread was 8.52. No
provision has yet been made for possible loan losses since none of SB's
outstanding advances which were mainly granted during the last semester of
1987, have been identified as bad or doubtful as of 31 December 1987. As
of 29 February 1988, 93? or Rs 514 million of SB's portfolio is current
while 5.8S or Rs 32 millon has arrearages of up to three months and 1.2Z
or Rs 6.3 smillion is in arrears for more than three months. Provisions
for bad loans amounting to Rs 44 million have already been booked. SBI's
revised budget provides for a total of RslO million in bad debt provision
for this year. Projected net income for 1988 amounts to Rs 25.9 million
after this provision and after considering the negative impact on
profitability of the initial operations of three branches. Return on
average equity is expected to be 14.22. A swumary of SB balance sheets is
given in Table 11.
Table ll SUMHARY BALANCE SHEET /a
Year ended 31 December               1987
Ratios:
Liquid assets to total assets (Z)      30
Advances to deposit (2)                85
Risk assets to equity              3.03:1
Deposit to total assets (2)            66
70.      A summary of SB's income statement for the period ended 31
December 1987 is given in Table 12.



-70-
ANNEX 4
Page 22 of 22
Table 12t SUMMARY INCOME STATENENT /a
Year ended 31 December                   1987
Ratiost
Earnings per share (Rs)                 0.22
Net profit/gross revenues              11.98
Return on average total assets (Z)      1.24
Return on average total assets (2) /a  4.15
Return on average equity (2)            5.02
Interest spread (2)                     8.51
Earnings spread (2)                     8.50
/a   Including interest paid.
71.      Conclusion.  SB is a new commercial bank with a broad private
ownership base. The financial results of its first nine months of
operations have been encouraging and has increased the optimism of SB's
management that its objective of becoming one of the country's leading
financial institution within a reasonable period of time can be attained.
SB has strong prospects for developing into an innovative and diversified
institution with a strong focus on project finance. Its staffing policies
are conducive to the development of a wide range of expertise within the
institution. SB expects to increase its involvement in term financing and
in anticipation of being able to qualify as a PCI for the project, intends
to develop a strong pipeline of subprojects currently estimated to have
aggregate project cost of Rs 300 million.



- /1-
ANNE, 5
Page 1 of 5
SR I
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT pROJECT (IDP-III)
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Terms of Reference for Institution-Building Technical Assistance
A. Backffround
- During 1987, consultants employed under IDA technical assistance
undertook a detailed review of DFCC's current and prospective operations with
the objective of assessing strategies fcr enhancing DFCC's competitive posi-
tion in the Sri Lankan market and programs for implementing those strategies.
The consultants produced a number of recommendations that were presented to
DFCC's Board in February 1988. The Board is presently shaping a strategy
statement for DFCC that is expected to reflect se-veral of these recommenda-
tions. The implementation of the diversification process will require the
recruitment of specialists in various areas and a concerted effort to develop
in-house expertise.
A fundamental theme of the consultants' report is that DFCC's chief
executive has often lacked the sufficient support from senior management in
the areas of corporate and personnel planning and development. The proposed
technical assistance has been designed with particular regard for this finding
of the consultants, as well as for DFCC's intended development of capital
market operations.
B. Obiective and Scope
The technical assistance has the primary objective of developing
DFCC's senior management resources and in-house expertise to enable the diver-
sification strategies adopted by DFCC's Board to be implemented in a timely
manner. In particular, the technical assistance will provide individual
experts in the areas of corporate planning and development, personnel manage-
ment and development and merchant banking activities who will be contracted as
experts within DFCC's organization for specified time periods. Each of the
experts, as well as fulfilirg the responsibilities of the functions assigned
by the General Manager, will be required to train and develop counterparts who
should be capable of being appointed as senior managers by the time of the
expiration of the relevant consultant's contracts. In addition, the technical
assistance will seek to strengthen existing operations through the provision
of training of DFCC staff and short-term support to DFCC in the areas of
organizational design and operational processes.



-72-
ANINEX 5
Page 2 of 5
C.  Detailed Terms of Reference
(i) CorXor.fte Planning and Develooment
(a) For a period of 18 months, undertake Corporate Planning
functions as required by the General Manager. The functions
will include the following:
1.   Expand the Strategy Statement elaborated by DFCC's Board
and Management into a Five-Year Plan for the period FY1898
to FY94. The plan should provide projections of DFCC's
funding requirements, staff requirements, and operating
budgets. The plan should also outline the sequence in
which DFCC will enter into the new activities specified in
the Strategy Statement, how these activities are to be
integrated with existing operations, the individuals
responsible for carrying them out, and the mechanism by
which the success of the activities will be judged.
2.   Review DFCC's existing organizational structure and proce-
dures in light of the Five-Year Plan and existing consul-
tants' recommendations and, in collaboration with the
Personnel Manager and external specialists if required,
recommend and implement any changes in DFCC's structure
that shall be deemed necessa-j.
3.   Prepare an authority statement for DFCC Board approval
clearly delineating a gradual devolution of the current
centralized decision making to an appropriately decentra-
lized basis.
4.   Establish close working relationships with the
Privatization Commission, the Securities Council and other
relevant bodies whose activities will. significantly affect
DFCC's future operating environment.
5.   Establish close working relationships with the key share-
holders in DFCC to facilitate support for DFCC's
strategies.
6.   Planning for, and assistance in implementation of an effec-
tive budgetary process within DFCC.
7.   Develop systems and procedures for the operation of an
effective budgetary process within DFCC.
8.   Recruitment and wanagement.of appropriate staff for the
above activities.



-'3-                               ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
(b) Work closely with a designated counterpart within DFCC with the
objective of training that counterpart to fully undertake the
Corporate Planning and Development Manager's role within a
twelve month period.
(ii) Personnel Develooment
(a) For a period of one year, undertake Personnel Management
functions as required by the General Manager. These functions
will include the following:
1.   Review, for submission to DFCC's Board, existing policy
guidelines for setting and subsequently adjusting salaries
paid to DFCC's staff.
2.   Undertake all necessary tasks for the implementation of the
above policy guidelines including establishment of task
assessment and position description procedures, performance
measurement systems and establishment of relevant external
comparators for DFCC salary levels.
3.   Prepare a manual of personnel policies to be issued to
staff.
4.  Establish and guide the operations of a staff training unit
that would, initially, undertake a detailed needs analysis
for establishing staff training priorities and would subse-
quently develop and implement appropriate training
programs.
5.   Identify DFCC's future management requirements based on the
five-year plan to be prepared by the Corporate Planning
Manager, and develop a staff recruitment and development
program for meeting those requirements.
6.   Recruitment and management of appropriate staff for the
above activities.
(iii) Merchant Banking
(a)  For a period'of eighteen months, undertake DFCC's funds
management, capital market and product diversification functions
as required by the General Manager and in accordance with DFCC's
strategy statement and Five-Year Plan. The functions will
include the following:
1.   Development of a treasury function to manage DFCC's liquid
assets within DFCC.
2.   Diversification of DFCC's funding base from both domestic
andc foreign sources.



-/4-
Page 4 of 5
3.   Active management of DFCC's equity portfolio with a primary
objective of improving tbh  liquidity of that portfolio.
4.   Provision of loan packaging and financial advisory services
on a fee-earning basis. Marketing of corporate financial
advice in the areas of mergers, acquisitions and corporate
restructuring.
5.   Establishment of a "work-out" unit responsible for restruc-
turing sick projects. It is expected that specialized
external assistance will be required in this area.
6.   Establish and guide the operations of a project-promotion
unit capable of identifying and promoting investment oppor-
tunities for DFCC's client base.
7.   Assistance in recruitment and training of appropriate staff
for the above activities.
(b) Work closely with two designated counterparts who should be
developed to a level whereby they can, respectively, satisfac-
torily undertake roles as DFCC's Treasurer/Funding Manager and
Merchant Banking Manager.
(iv) Staff Trainint
Operational training will be provided for DFCC staff during the
period of the Five-Year Plan. This will focus on training staff to
undertake the new activities being entered into by DFCC, and on
strengthening existing operations as well as improving the quality of
functional and general management.
1.   Staff to be trained to meet DFCC's needs in its new areas of
operation will be selected jointly by the Personnel Development
Manager and General Manager, in coordination with the Merchant
Banking Manager. It is expected that this training will need to
be mainly foreign-based.
2.   Existing operations.  Staff to be trained to strengthen DFCC's
existing lending operations.   Support activities will be
selected jointly by the Personnel Manager and General Manager.
This training will focus primarily on furthering staff's project
promotion, appraisal and supervision techniques, upgrading
information technology, improving the level of functional
management as well as general management.



ANNEX S
Page 5 of 5
(v)  General ODerational Support
General institutional strengthening support will also be provided,
for the equivalent of up to twelve man-months. Assistance in this
area will comprise mainly of additional support as required for the
Corporate Planning and Merchant Banking Managers, and assistance as
required in other areas, such as the preparation of an Operations
Manual for DFCC staff.
D. ManRower Reguirements
Each of the three specialists to be employed under C (i), (ii) and
(iii) should be mature, well-experienced individuals with a minimum of 10
years' experience at appropriate levels of seniority. Each of the specialists
should have at least three years experience in a country environment similar
to Sri Lanka's. The Corporate Planning and Personnel Management specialists
will not necessarily have experience within a financial services institution,
although such experience would be preferred. The Merchant Banking Specialist
will, however, be very well experienced in financial management, capital
market and merchant banking activities.
An additional budget of 12 manmonths of consulting expertise under
C (v) above, would be provided to assist the experts in specific areas as
required.
The first of the three specialists to be recruited will be the
Merchant Planning Specialist. The others will only be recruited once diversi-
fication of DFCC's activities commences and key areas, in terms of future
staff and organizational requirements can be clearly identified.



-76-
Page 1 of 4
SRr  AK
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-II1
RATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA (NDB)
Terms of Reference for Institution-Buildina Technical Assistance
A. Backgroun
During 1987, consultants employed under IDA technical assistance
undertook a detailed review of NDB's current and prospective operations with
an objective of developing strategies for NDB's future operations and programs
for implementing those strategies. The consultants presented an interim
report in September 1987 with a numt    f recommendations that have been
substantially accepted by NDB's mans    nt and that were incorporated into a
new Strategy Statement for NDB's optraLa.ons during 1988 and 1989.
This strategy statement, which has been accepted by NDB's Board,
provides for a sharper focus on the profitability of NDB's operations through
institutional reorganization and the identification of commercially-oriented
lending proposals; a diversification of NDB's resource base principally
through mobilization of rupee funds; and limited diversification of NDB's
areas of operation to provide a stronger emphasis on loan syndication,
underwriting and financial restructuring activities.
The proposed technical assistance has been designed to directly
assist the implementation of the Strategy Statement through the provision of
experts who will work within NDB's organization.
B. Obiectives and Scope
The technical assistance has the primary objective of developing
NDB's senior management resources and in-house expertise to enable the new
strategies adopted by NDB's Board to be implemented in a timely manner. In
particular, the technical assistance will provide individual experts in the
areas corporate planning and development and personnel management who will be
contracted as experts within NDB's organization Zor specified time periods.
Each of the experts, as well as fulfilling the responsibUlities of the
functions assigned by the General Manager, will be required to train and
develop counterparts who should be capable of being appointed as senior
managers by the time of the expiration of the relevant consultant's contracts.
In addition, the technical assistance will provide advisory expertise from
capital market specialists to assist as required, with the development of
NDB's domestic resource mobilization efforts, underwriting activities and the
provision of financial advisory services.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
C. Detailed leXMs of Reference
(a)  Corporate Planning and Development Manager
(i) For a period of 1-1/2 years, undertake NDB's Corporate Planing
functions as required by the General Manager. The functions
will include the following.
a. Development of a prioritized list of new and/or expanded
activities that will be the subject of NDB's diversification
program.
b. Development of implementation plans for the initiation of
the activities identified in a. above. The implementation
plans should include timetables marketing proposals, identi-
fication of staffing and staff development requirements.
c. Undertaken ongoing reviews and revisions of NDB's organi-
zation structure to ensure the most appropriate and effi-
cient structure will evolve.
c. Establish close working relationships with the Privatization
Commission, the Securities Council and other relevant bodies
whose activities will significantly affect NDB's future
operating environment.
d. Planning for, and assistance in implementation of the devel-
opment of a branch structure for NDB.
e. Develop systems and procedures for the operation of an
effective budgetary process within NDB.
f. Recruitment and management of appropriate staff for the
above activities.
(ii) Work closely with a designated counterpart with the objective of
training that counterpart to fully undertake the Planning and
Development Manager's role.
(b) Personnel Development
(i) For a period of one year, undertake NDB's Personnel Management
functions as required by the General Manager.  These functions
will include the following:
a. Prepare a manual of personnel policies to be issued to
staff.
b. Prepare for submission to NDB's Board, policy guidelines for
setting and subsequently adjusting salaries paid to NDB's
staff.



-78-
-78-                     ~~~~~~ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
c. Undertake all necessary tasks for the implementation of the
above policy guidelines including establishment of task
assessment and position description procedures, performance
measurement systems and establishment of relevant external
comparators for NDB's salary levels.
d. Establish and guide the operations of a staff training unit
that would initially, undertake a detailed needs analysis
for establishing staff training priorities and would subse-
quently develop and implement appropriate training rrograms.
These activities would be particularly oriented toward the
staffing requirements for NDB's diversification program.
e. Identify NDB's future management requirements and develop a
staff recruitment and development program for meeting those
requirements.
f. Assistance in recruitment and management of appropriate
staff for the above activities.
(i) Work closely with a designated counterpart with the objective of
training that counterpart to fully undertake the Personnel
Manager's role.
(c) CaRital Market Specialists
In terms of the prioritized list of new and/or expanded activities
for future NDB's operations in accordance with para C (a) above, the
technical assistance will provide short-term advisers as required in
the following areas:
(i) domestic funds mobilization;
(ii) Treasury operations;
(iii) structuring, management and underwriting of proposals for the
privatization of public enterprises; and
(iv) structuring, documentation and management of "b'g-ticket" leas-
ing proposals including the use of leveraged leasing techniques.
D. Manpower Reauirements
Each of the two long-term specialists employed should be mature,
well-experienced individuals with a minimum of ten years experience at appro-
priate levels of seniority. Each of the specialists should have at least
three years experience in a country environment similar to Sri Lanka's. The
Corporate Planning and Development specialist should have experience within a
financial services institution.



-79-
AENNX 6
Page 4 of 4
Up to nine man-months of short-term capital market expertise will be
required. This expertise will need to be recruited in line with specifica-
tions developed pragmatically during the Corporate Development exercise. A
further three man-months of consulting expertise may be necessary to assist
the Personnel Management expert with the technical tasks of position descrip-
tion, task measurement and establishment of salary review procedures.



-8u-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
aRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
Terms of Reference for Assistance to Presidential Tariff Commission
I. Introduction
Following the initial recommendation on tariffs of the Industrial
Policy Committee, which was to provide an overall rate of effective protection
not exceeding 50%, and a detailed study undertaken by the Presidential Tariff
Commission (PTC), A Review of Effective Protection and Comparative Advantage
in the Manufacturing Sector of Sri Lanka. Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo, November 1987, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) announced its
intention in the November 1987 Budge to adopt a four-rate tariff system within
a period of two years. The proposed rates are 5, 15, 30 and 50%, with the
principal method of assigning rates to commodities being the level of fabrica-
tion of the commodities concerned. Further, GOSL has decided to convert from
the CCCN system of commodity classification to the Harmonized system in
January 1989. Thus not only will the PTC have to do the necessary detailed
work to ensure the effective implementation of their proposals, they will also
have to modify their previous analysis to reflect the new commodity classifi-
cation system being adopted in January 1989.
II. Tasks
(a) Analyzing the Effects of the November 1987 Budget
The first step in moving towards the four-rate system was taken in
the November 1988 budget which (with every few exceptions) lowered the maximum
tariff to 50% and raised the minimum tariff to 5%. A preliminary analysis of
the impact of these changes reveals that they have lowered the aggregate
effective protection rate from just over 100% to in the region of 75%, i.e.,
half-way tcwards the target. Howevez, some technical problems remain the
detail of the calculations and thus these results should be interpreted with
caution. The correction of these problems should be the first order of busi-
ness as an accurate assessment of the impact of the tariff changes is of prime
importance. The PTC should always be able to reproduce Table 7.1 showing the
effect of the budget or any other changes in tariffs.
(b) Converting to the Harmonized System
The original study was based on the CCCN system of classification and
thus to be of any use in determining futnre changes, all the computer programs
and calculations will have to be converted to the Harmonized system, recalcu-
lated and checked. (A change in the commodity classification system unaccom-
panied by changes in rates should not significantly affect the results.)
While this is not a major conceptual issue, it will be rather time consuming
and will require close coordination with the committee responsible for making
the conversion. This process should be initiated as soon as possible to avoid
future delays and.problems.



-81-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
(b) Checking for Anomalies
The PTC has already analyzed in some detail the effects of a four-
rate system based on a stage of fabrication model specified at the four-digit
level (Scenario II in the PTC report), and has show? that it generates a
structure of protection consistent with the obj ctives of the Industrial
Policy Statement. Thus a significant amount of ;he preparatory work has
already been completed. However, a number of steps remain.
(a) The four-digit stage of fabrication model will probably require some
"fine tuning" to reflect Sri Lankan realities. In our discussions we
identified two, namely, capital goods of a type not manufactured or
likely to be manufactured in Sri Lanka, and goods which should be
dutied at different rates for specific social reasons (e.g., advanced
medical equipment). It may also be necessary to make additional
changes to avoid giving excessively high levels of effective protec-
tion to certain industries.
(b) The four-digit model will have to be expanded to the ten-digit level
before a complete tariff code can be published. A clear implication
of the stage of fabrication approach is that all subheads are
assigned the same level of fabrication (and hence the same tariff
rate) as the four-digit headings. The implication of this should be
checked for any unintentional anomalies.
Following this exercise, the PTC should be able to produce a list of items for
which deviations from the stage of fabrication model are warranted along with
the reasons for the deviations.
(c) Conversion of SRecifics
While it is GOSL's performance to retain specific rates for a number
of commodities as defense against dumping, the appropriateness of these rates
should be checked on a regular basis, and those not needed for anti-dumping
reasons should be replaced by Ad valorems consistent with the overall struc-
ture of the tariff code. To ensure the appropriateness of the specific rates
and to avoid unnecessary complexity in the tariff schedule, the PTC should
produce on an annual basis a list of commodities for which specific rates
apply along with the reasons for retaining the specific rate.
(d) Identification of Industries with Potential Adiustment Problems
While the structure of incentives resulting from the proposed tariff
system will clearly encourage industrial efficiency, some (fortunately only a
few) industries and firms will face some initial difficulties in adapting to a
more competitive environment. A significant part of the preparation work
underlying the Public Enterprise Restructuring Project is aimed at identifying
those publicly-owned enterprises that are likely to face some initial adjust-
ment problems. By working closely with that group, and drawing on their
experience and methodology, it would be possible to identify other firms that
would likely face adjustment problems. The PTC should produce such a list and
identify possible adjustment strategies for these firms.



-82-
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
III.  Outputs and Timing
It should be possible to complete the great majority of the above
tasks within a period of six to nine months. A tentative time-table along
with the expected outputs of each stage is outline below.  (The maintenance of
the software and analysis of the budget is regarded as part of the ongoing
work of the PTC and thus is not counted in the time-table below.)
(a)  After Two Months.  Conversion of the programs to the harmonized
system of classification and checking the accuracy of the conversion.
The close replication of the results of the calculations presented in
Table 7.1 of the report should be sufficient evidence that this steps
has been satisfactorily completed.
(b)  After Five Months.  Checking of the proposed schedule for anomalies
(both at the four-digit and higher level of aggregation) and the
conversion of redundant specific duties to ad valorems. The expected
output at this stage would be:
(i) A list of items for which the stage of processing tariff rates
are not appropriate along with the reasons for the deviations.
(it) A list of the specific rates which are required for anti-dumping
reasons and those which could safely be converted into AA
aloremsa.
(c)  After Six Months.  Compilation of the final tariff schedule.  By the
time stage (b) has been completed, the great bulk of the work under-
lying the creation of the new rate schedule has been completed an all
that remains is the compilation and publication of the final
schedule. The identifiable output at this stage would be the new
tariff schedule.
(d)  After Nine Months.  Identification of those industries and firms
likely to face short-run adjustment problems and development of
possible strategies. This should be done in close consultation with
the cell working in the Ministry of Finance and Planning on the
sensitivity analysis of the publicly-owned Manufacturing Enterprises.
The expected output would be a list of industries and possible
strategies.
IV. Stafflng
The above tasks are principally analytical. Thus they should not
require the same intensity of effort as that underlying the 1987 PTC report, a
large part of which was devoted to data collection. However, the staff of the
PTC will require some augmentation over its present establishment of four
officers.  At a minimum, it will require the addition of:



-83-
ANNlEX 7
Page 4 of 4
(a) a senior Sri Lankan economist with good analytical and quantitative
skills;
(b) the services of a good software applications programer. (The soft-
ware presently used by the PTC is capable of supporting the analysis,
but it will require ongoing maintenance to meet the needs of the PTC
at each stage;) and
(c) a foreign consultant to augment the analytical skills of the PTC and
to bring international experience to bear on the process.
V. Brief TOR for Consultant
The main task of the foreign consultant is to assist the PTC in
carrying out the following:
(a) verifying that the conversion of the programs from the CCCN to the
Harmonized system has been correctly implemented;
(b) analysis of the reasons for deviations from the stage of fabrication
model and identification of the divergences at the four-digit (and
higher if necessary) level;
(c) analysis of both the appropriateness of the level and the need for
specific duties, and the conversion of redundant specifics to Ad
valorems; and
(d) identification of industries facing potential short-run adjustment
issues and development of possible strategies to address these
issues.



-84-
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
Export Development
Technical Assistance
1.      Since November 1977, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has put in
place a trade liberalization program and a comprehensive set of export incen-
tives which are generally considered to be effective in promoting exports: a
flexible exchange rate; an effective duty and sales tax rebate system;
refinancing schemes by the Central Bank to encourage exporters through
medium- and long-term credit and pre-shipment financing (or packing credit);
a self-sustaining export credit insurance scheme; and an active Export
Development Board (EDB). The export incentives work well for direct
exporters; it is GOSL's intention to extend these incentives also to indirect
exporters. It is in the process of studying detailed implementation proce-
dures for an improved system of domestic letters of credit (DLC), so that
indirect exporters can be extended fiscal and financial incentives. With
relatively little addititonal work, such a DLC system can be put in place, and
COSL intends to fund this study either under the technical assistance com-
ponent of the proposed project or under the newly effective SMI-3 project
(see Appendix 1 for draft Terms of Reference).
2.      The incentive framework is broadly appropriate.  However, to help
promote export development more effectively, there is a need to provide some
technical assistance to fine-tune some of the available instruments and
re-examine the institutional role of EDB, increasing EDB's demand orientation
and hence its effectiveness as a catalyst in export development.
Export Incentive Policies
3.      Exchange Rate.  GOSL has recognized that a realistic exchange rate is
a necessary condition for successful export promotion and that an overvalua-
tion can negate the effects of other policies targeted at promotion exports.
A study commissioned in 1985 by the EDB found that the trade weighted average
of the Sri Lanka rupee vis-a-vis its major trading partners appreciated 31X
during the period 1978-84 and 202 during 1984 alone. Compared with Sri
Lanka's competitor countries, the real appreciation of the rupee was 29%
during 1978-1984 and 19X during 1984 alone. Since then, there has been a
reversal of the rupee appreciation. In 1985, the index of the trade weighted
value of the rupee declined by 4.2X and in 1986, it declined further by 8.2%.
In 1987, GOSL has continued to maintain a flexible exchange rate. By the
third quarter of 1987, the exchange rate of the rupee vis-a-vis the US dollar
was 30.84, and the index of real exchange rate had reverted to what it was in
1978.
4.      Duty and Rebate System.  The existing duty and sales tax system works
well to ensure that exporters have access to imported inputs on a free trade
basis. Since 1980, a scheme of general rebates was introduced wherein the



tiJ
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
incidence of import duties, cesses and sales taxes on imported inputs is
expressed as a percentage of the f.o.b. price. The general rebate applies to
the importable component of the product and hence the rebate is made even if
the "imported" inputs are purchased localLy.  The rebates generally occur
promptly, with occasional delays. The Customs and Treasury are working hard
to minimize these delays and those associated with the calculation of rebate
rates.
5.      Export Financing.  The Central Bank currently refinances medium- and
long-term credit extended by commercial banks to exporters giving the banks a
spread of 2%.  The banks consider this spread too small.  The Central Bank
also refinances 1002 of pre-shipment financing, giving commercial banks a
spread of 32 for Category I goods (tea, rubber, coconut and products derived
from these, garments, gems, marine and petroleum products) and 3.8% for
Category II goods (all products other than those in Category I).  There is a
quantum limit of Rs 1.65 million for Category I refinancing due to macro-
economic reasons.  While there are theoretically no quantum limits on
Category II refinancing, this has also been limited.  Newer and smatler
exporters of Category 1I goods frequently are unable to obtain credit.
6.      Export .redit Cuarantee Scheme.  The Sri Lanka Export Credit
Insurance Corporation (SIECIC) has been operating efficiently and has been
self-financing. Often, it has been criticized as being too conservative. If
GOSL enhances .he capital of SLECIC and lets it be known unequivocably that
it would stand by SLECIC's guarantee even if the latter's capital is eroded
by claims -- i.e., COSL would be the export credit insurer of last resort --
it is possible that SLECIC's coverage might be widened and export financing
be made more accessible to smaller and ne-wer exporters.
7.      Other Incentives.  In addition to the incentives above, GOSL operates
two free trade zones and the manufacturer-in-bond scheme; and provides
investment relief for priority industries (including exports) whereby
individuals purchasing shares in such industries may deduct the amount of the
purchase from taxable income. Manufacturers of exports are eligible for tax
holidays. The EDB also administers the export development and investment
support scheme (EDISS) -- a system of rewards made to exporters who have
improved on their past expert performance. These rewards are made in the
form of cash and interest-bearing certificates which could be used for
approved export-orie:.ted investments.
Technical Assistance for Export Incentives
8.      As shown above, the policy framework for exports is broadly
appropriate. However, there is need for technical assistance to implement a
DLC system and other policy implementation in such areas as export financing,
freight policv, market and product development, impact of land policy on



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
export competitiveness, and industrial relocation study. These requirements,
amounting to about US$89,000 would .e made available to EDB and other
policymaking institutions in Sri Lanka under the technical assistance com-
ponent of the proposed IDP-III.
The Export Development Board (EDB)
9.      The EDB was established in 1979 as a result of the Export Development
Act No. 40 of that year, to advise the Export Development Council chaired by
His Excellency, the President. It is a multi-purpose apes. organization of
GOSL for the formulation of export policies and programs. The EDB encourages
exporters by providing incentives and removing disincentives and provides
financial assistance through EDISS payments and recommending exporters'
investment projects to commercial banks for medium- and long-term credit. In
addition, it provides financial assistance to manufacturing and processing
exporters to expand exports in the short term (it has special programs to
assist small scale export-oriented manufacturers and processors); dissemi-
nates information about export policy and export incentives to potential
exporters; helps with market development and promotion; advises exporters
with subsectoral information, project profiles, and prefeasibility studies;
organizes trade fairs and buyer-seller meets, export villages, and in
general, plays the role of a catalyst.
10.      EDB is small and well-managed.  It is headed by a full-time execu-
tive chairman who oversees policy decisions and manages EDB, with day-to-day
operations delegated to the director-general; both have strong, relevant
experience.l/ This management has been able to attract a strong core of
middle management for the six function director positions: planning,
projects, marketing, services, finance and administration. Each department
has one deputy director, two assistant directors, and two to three junior
executives. Management of EDB intends to develop the effectiveness of this
swall staff, rather than building a large organization. Each professiot)al is
expected to have a product specialization in addition to fulfilling respon-
sibilities within his functional area. The proposed technical assistance to
EDB would assist an already effective institution become stronger, more
demand-oriented, and to help it strengthen its human resources and implemen-
tation capabilities.
1/ The Chairman returned to Sri Lanka from the post of Director General of
the International Trade Commission in Geneva, while the Director General
of EDB had been in charge of the former Export Promotion Secretariat,
the predecessor of the more powerful EDB.



-87-
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
11.     Under SMI-III, a US$500,000 Export Marketing Fund was established
with funding from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and administered by EDB to
finance the following activities and services of the EDB and the private
sector: (a) US$150,000 to be allocated to finance EDB's activites to intro-
duce, develop and promote priority export industries through information and
data collection, consulting services, domestic and overseas staff training
for EDB staff, and laboratory and training equipment required by EDB; and
(b) US$350,000 to be allocated to financially support the direct and indirect
export marketing efforts of EDB and of small and medium industries and their
associations, such as establishing trade centers in major overseas markets,
trading housec and branches, conducting market research and product adapta-
tion, establishing product-specific libraries, etc. EDB is responsible for
formulating detailed operational guidelines, rules and procedures for
implementirg these programs, and EDB's support (costs of data and information
collection from overseas, technical and advisory services by consultants and
travel expenses) would be shared 50-50 for eligibLe expenditures.
12.     A recent Bank study of 10 export success cases reveal several instan-
ces in which public agencies in developing countries played a vital,
catalytic role themselves as well as promoting other catalysts. That role
has extended beyond assurance of appropriate expert incentives and has
involved effective handling of the problem of imperfect information and
facilitating the entry of catalysts into the export business. 1/ In a com-
parative study, EDB was judged to be reasonably effective in providing its
services. 2/ Within Sri Lanka, EDB is perceived as an active organization
playing the role of a collector and disseminator of export policies and
markets, a dispenser of financial and technical assistance, and an important
player in bringing buyers and sellers together, especially for smaller and
newer exporters. This is remarkable, given EDa's limited financial and staff
resources.
Technical Assistance to EDB
13.     Second Export Development Plan and Corporate Plan.  The EDB is in the
process of drafting the Second Export Development Plan (SEDP) and has com-
pleted a draft of the 1988 Corporate Plan. The draft SEDP is still in a very
1/ Therese Belot, "Role of Catalytic Agents in Entering International
Markets, Preliminary Findings of a Desk Review of Exort Success Stories
in Ten Countries". World Bank, April 4, 1988 (mimeographed).
2/ "Marketing Manufactured Exports from Developing Countries: How to Provide
Excellent, 'ost-Etfective Institutional Support". World Bank, April 11,
1988 (mimeographed).



-88-
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
early stage and is as yet incomplete. When completed, the Plan will review
the progress made by Sri Lanka toward achieving the export development goals
made in the first EDP, analyze the reasons for the shortfalls, formulate a
vision for exports and export development in the next five years, and iden-
tify prospects and constraints for exports. It will then recommend a
strategy for export development in the next five y2ars. It appears that EDB
has made a good start in drafting the Development Plan, but that the Plan
could be sharpened considerably if EDB could focus more on: (a) describing
concrete ways by which GOSL could further reduce the impediments to exporters
by streamlining procedures -- especially in exporters' access to imported
goods through customs, access to duty free imported inputs through the rebate
system, and access to export financing; and (b) putting more emphasis on
manufactured exports and tourism, rather than on traditional exports. It
appears that with the return of political stability, manufactured exports and
tourism are the two areas where active promotional efforts would have the
greatest payoff. EDB has requested a short-term consultant in marketing and
management, with knowledge of general trading companies, who can help it
complete the drafting of the second EDP. IDA intends to fund such a consult-
ant once detailed terms of reference are agreed.
14.     EDB Institutional/Strategy Review and Initial Implementation.  The
EDB's source of reliable, earmarked funding has been the cess on imports with
tariffs over 50%. The ongoing tariff reforms have diminished this source of
funding, and as tariff reforms continue further, it is expected that this
source will even be more severely diminished. EDB plans to embark on a
strategy study so that it can more effectively fulfill its function as the
leader in promoting and developing Sri Lankan exports, identify other sources
of revenues, increase its operational and financial autonomy, and improve -its
stock of human capital through a better compensation and incentive system.
It will embark on an examination of its role and activities and formulate a
strategy with a view to making itself an even stronger, more demand-oriented,
and effective organization. Detailed terms of reference for this study would
be prepared in conjunction with the assistance to be provided to ED3 in
helping it complete the drafting of the Second Plan (para. 12). A total of
US$300,000 are included in the proposed technical assistance to EDB, as
follows:



-89-
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
(a)  EDS Strategy Study                          US$110,000
(b)  Human Resource Development Program              57,000
(job description, staff compensation
policy, t-iining plan, etc.)
(c)  Staff Trai"ing                                $133,000
US$300,000
Summary
15.     In summary, there are two components in the technical assistance for
export development in Sri Lanka under the proposed IDP-IIII (a) more work on
the policy franework; and (b) instituticnal assistance to 8DB. These are
summarized in Appendix 2.



-90-
ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DE/ELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
Export Development
Technical Assistance
Effective Implementation of the Domestic Letter of Credit and
Extension of Fiscal and Financial Incentives to Indirect Exporters
Draft Terms of Reference
1. Background
The domestic letter of credit (DLC) is considered to be one of the
more effective ways of channeling export incentives, such as import duty
rebates, export refinancing and other fiscal incentives to indirect
exporters. Ihile a system of DLCs already exist in Sri Lanka, it is
non-functional for a variety of reasons, including the costs involved in
using the DLC. The objective of this study would be to identify the con-
straints preventing the effective implementation of the DLC system and the
Incentives intended to be granted, and to propose changes to make it a more
effective channel. In addition to back-to-back DLCs linked to international
letters of credit, ways should be examined to encourage the use of confirmed
orders on a D/P or D/A type in the use of DLCs.
2. Detailed Tasks
The task force to be constituted to study this point will thus:
(a) Examine the mechanics of using the DLC, carefully quantifying the
cost and risks of utilizing the DLC, and the benefits to the various
parties involved: the issuing bank, the exporter/middleman; the
supplier;
(b) Propose actions and mechanisms to enhance the benefits and reduce the
costs and risks to the various parties involved in the DLC;
(c) Examine and propose ways to channel export incentives to the indirect
exporters, e.g., refinancing schemes, rebates of import duties and
BTT, tax incentiv,es through DLCs including DLCs issued on the basis
of firm export orders;
(d) Examine and address the conceras, if any, of the Central Bank toward
increasing the quantum of refinancing to support exporters, including
a study, if necessary, if and how expansion of refinancing to



-_a-                            ANNt  1
Attachmenc 1
Page 2 of 2-
exporters, both direct and indirect, could be implemented within the
accepted monetary targets of the Central Bank;
(e) Examine the role of the Sri Lanka Credit Insurance Corporation in
enabling newer and smaller exporters to gain access to export credit;
and
(f) Issue policies, procedures for payment of duty rebates to indirect
exporters, Central Bank circu'lars and guidelines, including designing
the necessary forms, for more effective implementation of the DLC,
utilizing to the extent possible existing resources and infrastruc-
ture. These procedures would specify eligibility criteria, extent of
refinsncing, rates and duration of refinancing, insurance require-
ments, ^Ft .
3. Composition c' Task Force
As the system of the DLCs alr ady exists and there is requisite
expertise within Sri Lanka, there is no need for expatriate assistance. In
fact, it is merely sufficient to assemble a task force including senior
officials whose activities are relevant to the effective utilization of the
DLC: the Export Development Board, the Fiscal Policy Division of the Ministry
of Finance and Planning, the Central Bank, the Sri Lanka Export Credit
Insurance Corporation, Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs, a
representative of the commercial banks, and a representative of the
exporters. These officials will conduct the study after office hours and/or
non-working days.
4. Time frame
This study will be completed in two to three months' time 'rom date
of inception, and its recommendations would be implemented by the next fiscal
year.
5. Coordinator
The Export Developmenc Board will coordinate the study.
6. Costs
The costs for this study will be in the order of US$ 15,000 equiv-
alent in local currency to cover honoraria to task force members, incidental
expenses and secretarial assistance. The Task Force will also publish a
booklet and conduct workshops to educate indirect exporters, direct
exporters, commercial bankers, and Central Bank staff regarding guidelines
and procedures for the DLC. A cost of about US$ 5,000 has been estimated
for these expenses.



_9Z_                    ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 1
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
Study of Export Financing
Terms of Reference
1.      One of the general heard complaints among exporters in Sri Lanka is
that the overall volume of export financing has been inadequate relative to
requirements.
2.      An Export Development Board - Central Bank Medium - and Long-term
Credit Scheme is available, but for various reasons, including inter alia,
relatively narrow margins available to commercial banks, the percentage of
refinancirig, the limited role of the Sri Lanka Export Credit Insurance Co--
poration (STECIC), lack of appraisal capability among the commercial banks,
the lack of an operational domestic letter of credit system, and complicated
policies and procedures, the amount of credit available to exporters has been
limited. The Central Bank refinances two categories of short-term preship-
ment credit. On Category I goods (tea, rubber, coconuts and some products
derived from coconuts, garments, gems, marine products, and petroleum
products), the Central Bank has set a maximum on the quantum of refinancing;
there is theoretically no upper limit on Category II goods (all other
exports). Hcwever, for category II goods, the actual amounL of refinancing
is limited since many smaller, newer, non-traditional exporters have dif-
ficulty gaining access to credit.
3.      The objective of this study would be to:  (a) identify the nature of
the problem - is it the quantity of export financing available, the price of
credit, or access to credit? (b) Quantify the magnitude of the problem - is
it a widespread problem among all exporters, or are there specific classes of
exporters who have this problem? (c) Identify the contributing causes to the
problem(s) - Is it a macroeconomic constraint? Is it interest rate structure?
Intersectoral allocation of credit, or other factors? (d) What are the
measures that could be used to eliminate some or alt these constraints? What
modifications, if any, could be made to existing organizations providing
export financing or to the roles they play - e.g. shotld the SLECIG play a
more active role? What catalytic role can EDB p'lay? Is there a need for new
institutions or new financing instruments?
4.      It is anticipated that this study could be completed using 3 m/m of a
foreign consultant combined with 12 m/m of local consultants.  The estimated
cost for foreign consultants would be US$24,000 and local consultants SLRs
120,000.



-93-                      Attachment 3
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP III)
Export Development
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance for Export Development
Estimated Cost
Rs '000            US$ '000
A. Policy Studies
1.  Domestic letters of credit and incentives        120                  10
for indirect exporters
2.  Other policy implementation in areas such        300                  65
as export financing, freight policy, market
and product development, impact of Land
policy on export competitiveness, and
regional industrial location (EDB and
other policy making institutions)
B. EDB - Institutional Review and Initial
Implementation
I.  EDS - Strategy Study                             240                 100
2.  Human Resource Development Program               200                  50
(job description, staff compensation
policy, training plan, etc.)
3.  Staff Training                                   600                 125
1,460                350



- 4-
SRI LANKA                        ATTACHMENT 4
THIRD L'DUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP III)
COMPARATrVE EXPORT INCENTIVE STRUCTURE
TAX INCENTIVE! FOR EXPORT tYDUSTRIES tN SIX TAST ASIAN COULN-IESL/
5i Slnkun           K       Hong  Koa1lvpi& PhiLiLnn         Idnia
(a) ?aTLLL:iAUd
(1) Low Uniform                                .
income tax
race.
(2) Income Tax      X          X
Reduction for
Xanufaccured
Exports
(3) Income Tax                 X       X
Reduction for
Special Foreign
Exchange Earning
Activities
(b) Sales-Based
(O) Inecee Tax                                           Y
Deduction for
Exporet Allowance
(Proportional co
Sales level)
( C) VauAdd flaa
(5) Income Tax                                                      X
Credit on Nec
Local Concent
of Export.
(d) Sp ecfic
(6) Income Tax      %          X
Reduction for
Overseas (arketing
or Pomoctional
Expenses.
(7) Resorve Account                    Y
for Marketing
Expenses.
(e) t ivnvc rtene  avsad
(8) Accelerated     X                  X
Depreciation
Allowvnc, for
Expc Indus.
(9) Invsmt Tax      X          X
Credit
A/ As of October 1967 for Sri Lanka and as of June 1983 for ocher countries



Tabl- 2
INTEREST RATES FOR SHORT-TERt   WORKING CAPITAL EXPORT LOANS
IN C EA5T ASIAN ECUMMIES a
Sri Lanka         Slngapore         Korea        Malaysia /b        Indon sin          Philipines /c
Expoert Loun
(1)  Annual Interest rate           90.              Rediscount         10             4.51               9X                12X
rate + 1. 61                                                   (Non traditionol exports)
143
(Traditional export.)
(2)  Export Loan as X of             1001               100%        VAL:J1 (fi)
export order (f)                                               DIL:905(M8)
FIL:U X(f4)         60X              J6C                 SOS
OOL:761(f 2)
Fo bdllno Banks of
Exort La
(1)  Rediscount Rate                 5.81               6.5X             5X               3X               8X                  ax
(Small scale non-                                                                    (No" traditional exports)
traditional exports)                                                                           as
(Traditional exports)
(2) Rediscount emount an
percentage of export            lOOX               1OOX            70?X            lOO               60e                 80X
loan
a As of October 1967 for Sri Lanka and as of June 1983 for other countries.
As of June 1981. Currently, the annual Interest rate for export. is 5X and the rediscount rate is 8.51.
E  In No vmr 1903. the export loan lnteret rates were changed as shown below:
Export Loan for Exporters: MR  ( Mnila Reference Rats) - 21 for non-traditional *xport.
iRR for traditional export.
Rediscount Rate:            71 for nontraditional *xporte
OX for traditional export.
(dR was 161 In Novewber 1068)



-96-
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 8
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Background
1.      While the macroeconomic, industrial and trade policy environment
plays a pivotal role in determining the pace of industrial technology
development (ITD), there is solid evidence that conducive implicit policies
cannot be the only element of a successful technology strategy.
Well-targetted explicit ITD policies aimed directly at improving technologi-
cal capability to select, import, absorb, adapt and develop new techniques
for existing production and new industrial products and processes also hAve
an important iole to Alay in promoting ITD because: (a) there are economies
of scale in many ITD activities and the risks and externalities associated
with ITD which may inhibit firms from undertaking the socially optimal level
of investment in them; (b) to take advantage of opportunities presented by a
conducive policy environment, a country needs trained manpower, information
about iavailable techniques, mechanisms to promote transfer of technology from
abroad, and a supporting infrastructur- of metrology and standards, which are
often best provided through public su, rt; and (c) there are typically gaps
in the capital market which inhibits financing some important ITD activities,
particularly those related to the start up and precomme-cial phase of
developing a technology. Thus nominal access through conducive implicit
policies to technology is only a necessary condition for a successful tech-
nology development; to make it a sufficient condition for effective access to
technology, it would also require adoption of well-targetted explicit
policies.
2.      Sri Lanka represents a case of having nominal access to technology
which in terms of effective absorption is severely constrained by shortage of
trained manpower (managerial, technical and skilled workers), taLk of
appropriate financing instruments and weak technological infrastructure.
Nevertheless, there is a widespread awareness within and outside industrial
firms of the importance of increasing efficiency and technological competi-
tiveness. This has been stimulated in large part by the Government's
liberalization policy since 1977, which has resulted in increased foreign
investment, technology transfer and domestic competition. The industrial
firms increasingly demand technical service from available foreign and domes-
tic sources, financing for technology based project and qualified technical
human resources. Within the Government, there seems to be general agreement
that a more stimulative technology policy should be formulated and an action
program for implementation shocud be clearly spelled out.  In the research



-97-
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 8
institutions, there is also a keen interest to improve their links with and
to serve the need of industry.
3.      Tne technology development component is designed to assist GSOL in
preparing an action program of well-ta-getted policies followed by initial
implementation to stimulate both supply and demand for technology develop-
ment. The action program would include measures to: (a) encourage demand
for technology from industry and to facilitate adoption of appropriate tech-
nology from both foreign and domestic sources; (b; encourage ana facilitate
strong linkage between publicly funded research/standards/training inst.tu-
tions and industry through appropriate institutional strategy, investments
and incentive schemes; (c) review feasibility of establishing, alternative
institutional arrangements for technology services such as product service
development centers; (d) establish permanent mnd viable financing mechanisms
for technology development; and (e) develop a strategy to alleviate human
resource constraints to technology development. The TA component would
consist of: (a) assistance to the COSL in developing an explicit industrial
technology development strategy including an action program for its implemen-
tation; (b) strengthening of technological infrastructure by promoting
improved linkage between publicly funded research institutes and the
industrial sector; (c) establishment of a technology development fund as a
temporary financial incentive to industrial enterprises and engineering
consulting firm t compensate for risks and externalities involved and effec-
tively stimulate s ,ply and demand for technology development through cost
sharing, assistance for e.g. design and product adaptation, productivity
improvements (including smaller technology related equipment) and training,
and (d) finance studies to review feasibility of establishing permanent and
viable financing arrangements for technology development and to review
feasibility of establishing alternative institutionai support ror technology
development through e.g. product service development centers.
Technology Development Strategy and Action Program
4.      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOSL that a detailed
technology development strategy including an action program for its implemen-
tation be developed by the end of 1988. For this purpose a consultant will
assist GOSL in preparing such a strategy and action program. In addition the
consultant's assignment would include prdparation of detailed TOR for the
other TA-components. The broad TOR for the consultant assignment would
include: (a) assessment of current status of technology development in the
country and identification of areas where assistance and reforms are needed;
(b) assessment of current government technology policies concerning interna-
tional technology transfer, fiscal incentive framework for R&D and institu-
tional reform for public funded technology institutions; (c) eecommendation
for policy changes and formulation of action program for implementation; (d)
preliminary assessment and preparation of a TOR for a study to review
feasibility of establishing permanent institutional arrangements for technol-
ogy development financing; and (e) preliminary assessment and preparation of
a TOR for a feasibility study to establish additional product service



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 8
development centers. It is expected that the consu,tant will be in the field
in June 1988.
Technological Infrastructure
5.      The *xperience of Japan, Korea, and Taiwan suggests that puMticly
funded research centres can be successful in the monitoring of technological
trends and identifying designed areas of thrust for local technological
effort. Part of the reason for their success is that they have been able to
attract and keep high quality staff, often by special arrangements that
p2rmits them to pay those staffs competitive salaries. Another part of the
reason for their success is that their main objectives have clearly been
assisting local industry in selecting, acquiring, and assimilating foreign
technology; improving productivity, and product design; and making effective
contribution of local resources.
6.      The central theme of IDA assistance of US$1.0 million to public
technology institutions in Sri Lankais to make these institutions more
responsive to the industry's need. The prospects of making the activities of
the technological infrastructure more demand-oriented appear quite favorable
since the institutions have already taken initiatives in this direction. All
tLree institutions, Ceylon Institute of Scientific & Industrial Research
(CISIR), Sri Lanka Standardization Institute (SLSI) and National Engineering
& Research Development Centre NERDC, have prepared strategy statements,
developed staff inventive schemes and necessary organizational arrangements
to make themselves more demand oriented (information available in project
file). Considering the difference in their relations with industry, the
project components are designed differently for each inutitution to achieve
the above objective.
7.      CISIR was set up in 1955, following a recommendation of the World
Bank Mission in 1952 to establish a commercially oriented institute that
serves the need of industry. However, there was a demand at the time from
the scientific community for strengthening basic and applied research with
broad perspective partially because the higher education system where the
research activities should take place was not developed in the country. With
the passage of time, many of the spplied res2arch functions initiated or
handled by CIS'R spinned off into separate institutions and considerable
expansion of universities and engineering colleges has also created a natural
home for the basic research. It is now the consensus in the Government and
in the CISIR board and management that the institute should re-orientate
itself to concentrate on inAustrial research and development. This consensus
has been further reinforced by the increasing demand from industry for tech-
nological knowledge and consulting services of the institute in the recent
years.
8.      To meet the changing demands of industrial development and perceived
objectives of the institute, the Governing Board of CISIR i3sued a policy
statement, in April 1986, which outLined the new direction and priorities of



-99-
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 8
the institute's work program. The important aspects of the statement
include: (a) priority for R&D project should be relevant to the needs of the
industry. It was stated that project proposals be subject to techno-economic
evaluatior based on quantifiable (wherever possible) information and other
criteria of their potential economic benefit to the country;
(b) strengthening of the institute's engineering and techno-economic
capability and needed scaling-up and subsequent commercialization of proces-
ses; (c) encouragement of mission-oriented research; and (d) establishment of
incentive schemes and training programs for the R&D personnel towards modern
industrial technology applications.
9.      To assist CISIR in iLS reorientacion and in achieving its long term
objectives, the Bank project aims: (i) to develop long term strategy and
reorganization plan for the institute. It is suggested that a top level
Industrial Research Specialist with appropriate developing country experience
be invited to Sri Lanka to help draw the blueprint for CISIR. CISIR has
scheduled the strategy study and reorganization plan work to start in
mid-1988; (ii) to establish and strengthen engineering, techno-economic and
mark:eting departments in order to bring a closer linkage between the
institute and industry; (iii) to train CISIR staff as industrial specialists
abroad; (iv) to modernize process laboratory for industrial applications; and
(v) to integrate the institute into international technology transfer
process, starting with purchase of foreign project reports and project
profiles.
10.     The tentative allocation of funds is summarized as follows:
Strategy Development and Reorganization Plan    S 25,000
Engineering/Economic Departments                    100,000
Training                                             70,000
Lab Modernization                                   150,000
International Tech. Transfer                         55,000
CISIR Total                               $400,000
11.     SLSI was established in 1946 but the demand for its service from
industry has only started growing rapidly since the 1977 liberalization
policy because of the quality consciousness resulted from competition in the
industry. The increasing demand from industry has shifted the SLSI's
priorities from national standard formulation which is primarily for
regulatory purposes towards company standard formulation and implementation.
The thrust of the latter is to achieve better quality control and management
on a voluntary basis. SLSI has developed a three year long-term development
plan with quality control and company level standards as the strategic focus.
12.     To assist SLSI in implementing its long-term strategy, the Bank
project aims: (i) to assist SLSI in establishing quality control training
and consulting capabilities. It is proposed that the training specialists
for quality control be cent abroad to receive training first. Upon their



-Juv-
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 8
return, they will design and conduct training courses towards three different
groups involved in quality control at industrial enterprise Level: the top
management, the technical specialists and the rank and files; (ii) to estab-
lish and maintain a quality control consulting group. It is proposed that
this group be eventually separated from SLSI as a commercial organization to
maintain highly qualified staff with appropriate level of salary; and (iii)
to strengthen the institute's capabilities in company level standard formula-
tion and implementation, standards information dissemination and introduction
of international standards for import/export activities. A total of
US$250,000 is allocated to SLSI to support its development programs. The
cost breakdown is tentatively agreed as follows:
Quality Management            $100,000
Company Level Standards        100,000
Import/Export Inspection        50,000
Total                      $250,000
13.     NERDC was established in 1974 and only became fully operational in
1979. The institute concentrates on its main efforts in developing technol-
ogy which either is not available elsewhere or is of immediate commercial and
social-economical applications. An example of the former is the development
of a wood-firing gasifier which are used in the tea trying process witn
30-502 energy saving; and an example of the latter is the provision of energy
audit and management consulting service which has completed 12 projects with
an estimated energy saving of Rs 8 million per year for the industry.
Because NERDC is relatively demand oriented, its revenue generation increased
from Rs 0.14 million (2.1% of current expenditure) in 1985 to Rs 1.3 million
(162 of current expenditure) in 1987. It is expected, in the next five
years, that the institute can cover upto 50% or more of the recurrent cost,
considering increasing demand of its service from industry, strengthening of
its marketing capability, and availability of technology financing to the
private sector through Technology and Productivity Fund.
14.     The Bank project aims:  (i) to strengthen energy audit and management
unit with replacement of equipment and expansion of staff in order to cope
with the increasing demand; (ii) to provide funds for training, particularly
for training senior staff abroad; (iii) to support project initiatives such
as Hydraulic Laboratory, Mini Hydro Power, :'ternative Fuels and (iv) to
establish a manufacturing consulting unit alonb the same line as the energy
audit and management unit, focusing problem diagnosis, problem solving and
consulting in key manufacturing areas of foundry, forging, tooling and
machine shops.
15.     The tentative allocation of funds is summarized as follows:
Energy Audit Unit             $100,000
Training                        50,000
Project Initiatives            100,000



-lul-
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 8
Manufacturing Consulting       10( 000
NERD Total           $350,000
Technology Development Fund (TDF)
16.     To assist the technology development in the industrial firms, the TDF
of US$500,000 million would provide through the PCIs partial grants to
private sector for financing of eligible and viable projects.  The overall               g
rationale for providing public grants is based on the externalities involved                L o
in many ITD activities which may inhibit firms from undertaking the socially
optimal level of investment in thema because the originator of an innova-
tion/adoption may be unable to capture all of the resulting rents from the
diffusion of innovations to other firms.  The obje:tive of the fund is to
provide a temporary financing scheme to (a) overcome the difficulties caused
by lack of venture capital and technology financing; (b) share the risk with
private enterprise for R&D projects in absorbing and modifying the imported
technology; tc) stimulate technology supply and demand; and (d) promote
alternative technology sources in industry. IDA mission met with several
industrialists from chemical, food prccessing and engineering industries to
assess the potential demand for the TDF and to determine the areas where the
assistance from the Fund would likely be effective in promoting industrial
technology development. The conclusions of the mission are summarized as
follows:
17.     Assistance to Technology Adoption.  Most of Sri Lanka's industrial
technology is imported. Purchase of equipment and limited start-up training
from the supplier or collaborators are available. The difficulty usually
arises in technology adoption when the products and processes have to be
modified to fit the local market or to use local materials. In the adoption
process, experienced foreign consultant has to be hired for a longer period
time and certain testing and other equipment have to be purchased. The firms
normally feel that it is too expensive and too risky to undertake such ven-
tures, particularly when there is no commitment from a foreign collaborator.
The cost sharing design of the TDF should encourage the enterprises to under-
take R&D projects that focus on the adoption and modification of the imported
technology.
18.     Prcmoting Productivity and Efficiency Improvements.  The TDF should
also promote productivity and efficiency improvement schemes in industry.
Such schemes usually involve limited investment but with significant gains in
productivity and short payback period. The reasons that such profitable
projects were not undertaken by the industry automatically are probably lack
of awareness in the industry and lack of quality service from technology
institutions. Therefore, this proposed project component is designed to
strengthen the energy audit unit and to establish a manufacturing consulting
unit in the public funded NERDC while, on the other hand, to promote the
demand of thei- service from industry through the TDF.



-102-
ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 8
19.     Developing Alternative Technology Sources.  It is generally accepted
that the public technology institutions, while useful and worth supporLing at
this time, have their limitations. Alternative technology capability such as
engineering consulting firms, in-house R&Ds and product development centers
should be developed. The TDF would support the estab'ishment of such alter-
natives through financing training, workshops, exposure visits and other
eligible activities.  The detailed description of lue is held on the Project
File.
Feasibility Studies to Review Financing Mechanisms for ITD and Establishment
of Product Service Development Centers
20.     Financing Mechanism for ITD.  Another key constraint to ITD in most
LDCs is the severe limitation on the availability of financing for ITD
projects undertaken by industrial firms internally or contracted out to R&D
centers, engineering firms or other sources. The start-up phase (feasibility
studies and technical R&D) and the precommercial phase (development of
prototypes and pilot plants, preliminary production and test marketing)
contain major risks which are not acceptable to conventional financial
institutions. Commercial and development bank normally become interested in
financing a project only after the technology has been proven and its market
were specified.
21.     As mentioned above the TDF would provide temporary and catalytic
assistance to meet such a need. However, once supply and demand for ITD
adtivities have been nurtured and increased to a higher level, a permanent
and viable financing mechlanism for ITD needs to be in place. A few NIC's and
some developed countries as well, have developed specialized ITD financing
agencies to fill this gap in capital market. These agencies have an impor-
tant role to play: (a) as an integral part of a comprehensive approach to
developing capital market (financing R&D projects and venture capital opera-
tions); (b) as a bodly of expertise in technology to advice on Government
policies such as the Kor'an Technology Development Corporation; (c) as a
means of industrial extension through the advice provided to firms during
project preparation and appraisal; (d) as a means of providing brokerage
service through its unique contacts between industry, research institutes and
financial institution; and (e) as one means of helping to raise awareness of
ITD issues through information services.
22.     Product Service Development Centers.  Product service development
centers would play an essential role in strengthening interaction between
industry, research institutes and universities to accelerate and focus on
commercially oriented research and development activity. Sri Lanka has in
the sub-sectors of textiles and clothing with IDA-assistance successfully
applied the concept of product service development centers through estab-
lishment of the Textile Training Institute (TITI) and the Clothing Training
Institute (CITI). To replicate this successful experience a feasibility
study would explore the scope for establishment. of additional centers in
areas such as food processing and light engineering goods.



ANNEX. 9
Page  8 of 8
23.     E.g. the role of a food industry center would be to serve as a focal
point for d,i: mination of information on new development and opportunities
in the areas of equipment processes, products and packaging. Possible
activities could include:
-   supply information on new technology and new products available;
-   introduce potential joint venture partners in new equipment process
and product fields;
-   arranging seminars on new techniques relevant to food processing and
packaging;
-   facilitating demonstrations of new processing and packaging
machinery; and
-   establishing a reference collection for standard information on food
processing and packaging and allow ready access to these by SMI
qntrepreneurs.
In the area of e.g. light engineering goods manufactures require applications
advice and engineering design input to their operations.  Users on the other
hand, require independent advice on improvements in design changes leading to
improvements in product cost and/or performance.  A major role of a possible
light engineering goods center would be to provide training, seminars,
exhibitions and up to date information on engineering, design and applica-
tions.
24.     A detailed TOR will be prepared for the above feasibility studies.  A
total of US$200,000 has been allocated for these feasibility studies.



-104-                         ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
Technical Assistance: Telecommunications
The Telecommunications Sector
1.      The Sri Lanka Telecommunications Department (SLTD) is likely to be
the first major public enterprise to be restructured as part of GOSL's
privatization strategy. IDA has supported the restructuring of the telecom-
munications sector since 1986 through a PPF (P-372-CE), mainly by funding
consultants to create the necessary legal and regulatory framework and to
recommend adequate organizational structures for the new sector entities.
The restructuring of the sector has now reached a critical juncture; a
Telecommunications Act is expected to be passed by July 1988, and SLTD is
expected to be converted into a commercial company (SLTC) under the Companies
Act by October 1988. GOSL is also negotiating with a private joint venture,
CELTEL, with US, Swedish and Sri Lankan incerests, regarding a license for
mobile, cellular communications, and these negotiations are expected to be
finalized by mid 1988. Another license to a private company for a paging
system is expected to follow shortly thereafter.
2.      To ensure that these new companies work within the legal and
regulatory framework for the sector,.there is an urgent need to establish and
equip the regulatory body, the National Telecommunications Commission (NTC).
Organization, job descriptions, salary structure and a staffing plan for NTC
have been worked out by PPF-funded consultants. However, to carry out its
regulatory functions adequately, NTC would need additional technical assis-
tance and equipment in the following areas: assistance during NTC's first
year of operation by foreign experts with adequate experience in the techni-
cal, financial and legal aspects of utility regulation; equipment and train-
ing for allocation, monitoring and management of radio frequencies; training
and equipment for type approval; and, training and equipment for monitoring
of quality of service.
3.      The estimated cost, including contingencies, for above items is
US$2.5 million. This amount, plus PPF funds under P-322-CE, have been
included as a telecommuniations technical assistance component under this
project to support IDP-III's objective of fostering private sector participa-
tion in the public sector and to ensure that the regulatory framework for the
telecommunications sector created under the PPF is effectively implemented.
4.      The Sri Lanka Telecommunications Board (SLTB) and SLTD are finalizing
an inventory of relevant SLTD staff and equipment that would be transferred
to NTC. SLTB will also retain a PPF-funded consultant, with adequate
experience especially of frequency management, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA to assist in the preparation of detailed specifications
of equipment and training. During negotiations, terms of reference for
foreign experts, to assist NTC during its first year of operation, and for
the consultant,_to assist in the preparation of detailed specifications, will
be discussed and agreed as well as counterpart arrangements.



-105-
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Addendum: Estimated Costs
US$ '000
1.  PPF:                              $750
2. Foreign experts
36 mm @ $14,000/mm               500
3.  Equipment & training in
Frequency management              1500
4. Training and equipment for
type approval:                     250
5. Training and equipment for
monitoring service quality         250
6.  Unallocated                        550
Total (including contingencies)    $3800



-106-                      ANNEX 11
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP III)
Technical Assistance: Strengthening of
Environmental Review Capabilities
1.      Existing Legislative and Institutional Framework.  Basic environmei-
tal regulations in Sri Lanka consist of: (a) the National Environmental Act
No. 47 of 1980, which establishes a Central Environmental Agency (CEA) with
policy advisory functions; (b) a 1984 requirement that all development
projects be subject to environmental impact assessment; and (c) a 1987 Hand-
book of Environmental Impact Assessment Procedures and Guidelines. A
proposed amendment to the National Environmental Act of 1980 authorizes the
CEA to establish environmental standards, proscribe polution-causing
activities and require mitigatory measures. What is required in order to
make the existing legislative and institutional framework operational for the
industrial sector is the development of guidelines for specific industries.
2.      Technical Assistance for Environmental Review of Industrial Projects.
To address the need for operational guidelines, part of the technical assis-
tance component for participating credit institutions (PCIs) under IDP III
should be allocated for institutional strengthening of the Central Environ-
mantal Authority. Such technical assistance could include: (a) preparation
of guidelines for the sectors that will receive project financing under the
loan; (b) a pilot course to demonstrate the use of the guidelines to CEA
officials; and (c) preparation of a work program for CEA officials to
instruct PCI officials, line ministries and contractors regarding application
of the guidelines for sectors financed under the loan. This technical assis-
tance would require 8 staffweeks (2 local consultants working 4 weeks each).
At a rate or US$100 per day, it would cost about US$4,000. The consultants
might be drawn from the Ceylon Institute for Scientific Industrial Research
(CISIR) and assisted by their staff. The benefits of the technical assis-
tance would include: (a) operational guidelines for use in future projects
in the specified sectors; (b) strengthening of coordination among CEA, the
line ministries, the PCIs and CISIR; and (c) providing the basis for a more
comprehensive institutional strengthening component in the proposed Public
Enterprise Restructuring Project and in future industrial sector loans.



-107-
ANNEX 12
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP III)
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Extimated Cumulative Disbursements
Association FY                     US$           X
FY89 la   December 31                       3.0          6.9
June 30                           7.0         16.0
FY90      December 31                      10.0         22.8
June 30                          13.0        30.0
FY91      December 31                      17.0         38.8
June 30                          21.0.       48.0
FY92      December 31                      26.0         59.3
June 30                          31.0        70.8
FY93      December 31                      35.0         79.9
June 30                          38.0        86.8
FY94      December 31                      40.0         91.3
June 30                          41.0        93.6
FY95      December 31                      43.8        100.0
/a Estimated disbursements for FY89 includes retroactive financing of
US$4.0 million and US$750,000 refinancing of an existing PPF.



-108-                          ANNEX 13
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP III)
PROJECT FILE
The Industrial Sector
1.     COSL Industrial Policy Statement: Working Papers
2.     Export Incentive Study
The Financial Environment
3.     Joint IMF/Bank Financial Sector Report: July 1986
4.     The Structure of the Finncial System: May 1987.
5.     Joint IMF/Bank Detailed Review--Bank of Ceylon
6.     Joint IMG/Bank Detailed Review--Peoples Bank
The Project--Institutional Structure
7.     Operational Review: Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)
8.                        : National Development Bank of Ceylon (NDB)
9.                        : Bank of Ceylon (BOC)
10.                        : Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC)
11.                         : Hatton National Bank (HNB)
12.                         : Peoples Bank (PB)
13.                         : Sampath Bank (SB)
The Project--Credit Component
14.     Draft Participation Agreements
The Project--Technical Assistance Components
15.     Draft Statement on Policies and Procedures for Technology Development
Fund
16.     ADB - Technical Assistance Components
17.     Capital Development and Investment Corporation
1E.     Employee Trust Fund
The Project--Reporting Reguiretmen.ts
19.     Draft Periodic Reports



MAY 17
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JAFFNA         / I
_6    Notional Capital
/  -  -   Dtstr,ct Boundaries
- Xr   MULLAITIVU                                     _._   Provincial Bou.daries
MU          _ ,MVU
NORTHERN '-
VAVUNIYA
MANNAR       -                        N
r                                            I        ~         ~      ~    ~~~~~ 2  /
\ k                           \ TRINCOMALEE
ANURADHAPURA
l  --> NORTH  CENTRAZ  't
N~                                              1'  J   I
PUTrALAMJ.                                     POLONNARUWA                                         s*.1
NORTH
NOR TH   >             ,                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BATTICALOA
WESTERN                                           .
g   KVRUNEGALA      0   MATALE                  EASTERN
_,_ CENTRAL                                    -  1,
j1,
GAMPAHA  i                                                                     A / MAPARAJ
KEGALLA                             BULA *   -
CoL'                ,             NUWARA                    -)
-5  \ /       j    ELIYA                         M UONERAGALA
--7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
KALUTARA  \              N
I N  D  I A                GALLE                              . \  HAMBANTOTA
SOUTHERN
. MATARA                                            0      1so    20 ?°
)          S..                                   0    n   30  30   0   io0
-m A                                                             _                                      r



