Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15123
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III )
(CREDIT 1948-CE)
NOVEMBER 28, 1995
Private Sector Developmsnt & Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asie Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee
(annual average)
Rs. Per US$1.00          US$ Per Rs.1.00
1986        28.017                    0.0355
1987        29.445                    0.0339
1988        31.807                    0.0314
1989        36.047                    0.0277
1990        40.063                    0.0249
1991        41.372                    0.0241
1992        43.830                    0.0228
1993        48.322                    0.0206
1994        49.500                    0.0200
1995        51.000                    0.0196
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          -     Asian Development Bank
BOC         -      Bank of Ceylon
CBSL        -      Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CEA         -      Central Environmental Authority
CISIR       -      Ceylon Institute of Scientific &
Industrial Research
DFIs         -     Development Finance Institutes
DFCC         -     Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
EDB         -      Export Development Board
ERD         -      External Resource Department
GOSL        -      Government of Sri Lanka
IMU         -      IDP Monitoring Unit
IPS         -      Industrial Policy Statement
NDB         -      National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
NERDC       -      National Engineering & Research
Development Center
PB          -      Peoples Bank
PCI         -      Participating Credit Institutions
PFDP        -      Private Finance Development Project
PMEs        -      Public Manufacturing Enterprises
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
SLSI        -      Sri Lanka Standardization Institute
SMI         -      Small and Medium Industries
TDF         -      Technology Development Fund
FISCAL YEARS
GOSL                                               = January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks                                   = January 1 to December 31
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)= April 1 to March 31
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)    = January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation  Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
PART  I:  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.        Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Evaluation  of Objectives              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B.        Achievement  of  Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Implementation  of  the  Credit  Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Implementation  of TA  component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Policy Reforms / Sector Reforms. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Upgrading  Technology Development   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
TA  to the  Telecommunications  Authority   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
C.        Major  Factors Affecting  the  Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
D.        Project  Sustainability    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I    .    6
E.        IDA  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
F.        Borrower  Performance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
C.        Assessment  of  Outcome   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
H.        Follow-up/Future  Operations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
I.   Lessons Learned.    .                             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . .    .  .   .  .  .  .   . . 8
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  TABLES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Table  1   - Summary of Assessments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Table  2   - Related Bank  Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Table  3   - Project  Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Table  4   - Credit  Disbursements:  Cumulative  Estimated  and Actual                              12
Table  5   - Key  Indicators  for  Implementation                     . . . . . . . . . .   13
Table  6   - Key  Indicators  for  Project  Operation   . . . . . . . . . .   14
Table  7   - Studies  Included  in Project    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Table  8A  - Project  Costs    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Table  8B  - Project  Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Table  9   - Fconomic  Costs  and Benefits    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Table  10  - Status  of Legal  Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table  11  - Compliance  With Operational  Manual  Statements                       . . . . .   18
Table  12  - Bank Resources:  Staff  Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Table  13  - Bank Resources:  Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
STATISTICAL ANNEXES:
I.       Sub-Loan  Financing  - Under  IDA  Credit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
II.       Sub-Project  Approval  - DFCC   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
III.       Sub-Project  Approval  - NDB    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
IV.       Sectoral  Distribution  of  Sub-Projects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
V.       Geographical  Distribution  of  Sub-Projects   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
VI.       Sub-Projects'  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
VII.        Financial  Performance  Indicators  - DFCC   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
VIII.        Financial  Performance  Indicators  - NDB    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
IX.       Technical Assistance  - Allocation  and Utilization   . . . . . . . . .   28
X.       People's  Bank  and Bank  of  Ceylon Operational  Review   . . . . . . . .   29
APPENDIXES:
A.         ICR Aide  Memoire  and Government's  Statement  of  Sector  Policy    . . .   30
B.        Borrower's  Contribution  to  ICR    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
C.        Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1948-CE)
Preface
1.          This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third
Industrial development Project (Credit 1948-CE) in the amount of SDR 31.7
million (US$ 43.8 million equivalent inclusive of US$ 7.8 million technical
assistance) was approved on July 26, 1988 and made effective on March 9,
1989. The Credit was closed as originally scheduled on June 30, 1995.
Final disbursement took place on November 14, 1995, at which time a balance
of US$ 3.0 million was cancelled.   Cofinancing for the project was provided
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
2.          The ICR was prepared by Shideh Hadian, Private Sector
Development and Finance Division of the South Asia Region and reviewed by
Messrs. Frederick Kilby (Division Chief) and Fakhruddin Ahmed (Project
Advisor). The borrower provided comments that are included as appendix B to
the ICR.
3.          Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission, April 1995. It is based on material in the
project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing the data on different component of the project, preparing own
evaluation and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
(CREDIT 1948-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.          Five IDA Credits (intermediation operations) totaling US$ 109
million had been approved for the development of small, medium, and large
scale industries in Sri Lanka during eight years preceding this project.
These credits, in addition to meeting the long-term investment financing for
private sector industries, supported the Government's policy reform programs
and institutional strengthening of the participating financial institutions
and concerned government agencies.
Project Objectives
2.          This project had two components: (i) a credit component of US$
36.0 million with the objective of financing the foreign exchange cost of
the capital investment in the private manufacturing enterprises; and (ii) a
Technical Assistance (TA) component of US$ 7.8 million for assisting the
Government in the implementation of the policy reforms and institutional
strengthening in the areas of tariff administration, export promotion,
capital market, technology development and implementation of a regulatory
framework for telecommunications. Specifically, the objectives were to: (a)
continue the institution building of the two Development Finance
Institutions (DFIs), namely National Development Bank (NDB) and Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) as well as other Participating Credit
Institutions (PCIs); (b) assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to
implement the Second Export Development Plan and its phased tariff reform
program; (c) assist the GOSL to initiate implementation of its 1987
Industrial Policy Statement (IPS) objectives to strengthen industrial
technology development (ITD); (d) assist in developing a more efficient
capital market with the objective of increasing the sources of equity
finance for industry; and (e) provide support to the GOSL to prepare the
regulatory framework for establishing an independent commercial
telecommunication authority. In addition, the project addressed
environmental issues by providing TA for environmental review capabilities
of the PCIs and strengthening the coordination among the Central
Environmental Authority (CEA), line ministries, and the PCIs.
3.            IDP-III complemented IDA's previous industrial sector
operations and was in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy and
the IMF's structural adjustment program. The project objectives and timing
were right for the GOSL's policy reforms and development priorities and the
implementation of the 1987 IPS's objectives. The scope of the project,
however, was very broad with no clear terms of reference for some of the
policy related objectives. The size of the project was right and realistic
and, together with the Asian development Bank's (ADB) fund, met about 95
percent of foreign exchange requirement of total project cost. ADB fully
supported the objectives of the project and provided US$ 40.5 million for
project financing and technical assistance through a parallel line of
credit.



- ii1 -
ImDlementation experience and Results
4.          The credit component was satisfactorily implemented and met its
development objectives. The success of this component was attributed to
efficient operations of the two DFIs and satisfactory performance of the
financed sub-projects. The DFI's performance was highly satisfactory both
in credit delivery and their internal operations and maintained financial
criteria (collection ratio, profitability, liquidity, etc) under the
project. Based on the information provided by DFIs, over 92 percent of sub-
projects performed well with respect to their profitability and debt
servicing. The credit component was 91 percent utilized, mainly through the
DFIs and had significant impact on employment generation (about 7,500 jobs
were created).
5.          The TA for institutional development of DFIs and other
participating institutions was successful in capacity building for project
lending and human resource development. The TA that was provided to the
Telecommunications Authority to start operations and strengthen its
institution capacity and functions was implemented satisfactorily but with
delays. The TA for technology development of the private sector industries
was found very useful by the entrepreneurs and implemented successfully.
The result of TA for development of public research/technology agencies
varied by type of assistance and institutions and, on balance, its impact
was low with respect to cost-effectiveness and value-added.
6.          The TA for policy reforms was implemented with mixed result.
Since 1989, there have been considerable efforts to implement policy reforms
in the areas mentioned in para 2. IDA has supported the GOSL's reform
programs and development priorities through a series of industrial and
adjustment projects with mutually reinforcing objectives. IMF and ADB were
simultaneously active in financing and dialogue. As a result, progress that
have been made in reform programs, during the life of IDP-III, is attributed
to a series of industrial and adjustment projects initiated by the Bank, IMF
and ADB.
7.          To assist the GOSL to further develop and promote exports, TA
was provided to Export Development Board (EDB) to review and fine-tune the
available instruments and schemes and to remove the bottlenecks and
constraints for exporters, in particular indirect exporters. In addition,
it was proposed that EDB embark on strategy study so that it can more
effectively fulfill its function as the leader in promoting and developing
Sri Lanka's exports. Sizeable amounts were utilized on several important
studies for improving development policies and incentive systems (Table 7).
However, few recommendations were accepted by EDB and implemented. The
recommendations of the strategy study was not implemented due to the
political environment. The objectives of the TA for tariff administration
under this project was partially achieved and implementation delayed
(Table 7).
8.          The overall impact of the project was satisfactory.  The key
factors that enabled the project to achieve its objectives were: (i)
operational efficiency and financial viability of the two DFIs which in turn
had significant impact on the satisfactory implementation of the credit
component; (ii) strong and healthy demand by the private manufacturing
enterprises for capital investment; (iii) good financial and debt servicing
performance of sub-projects; and (iv) continued successful Bank's and IMF's
dialogue with the GOSL on the policy reforms and expansion of private sector
investment. The impact of the TA component in certain areas, however, was
low. The main contributing factors were: (i) lack of commitment and
incentives by some ministries to effectively utilize the TA funds and
strengthen the relevant institutions; (ii) absence of an effective and



- iii -
efficient unit in the Government to coordinate, monitor, and follow-up the
TA programs; and (iii) lack of clear objectives and terms of reference in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for certain TA programs.
Proiect Cost. Financing, and Time Schedules
9.          Project costs were estimated at US$ 124.3 million during the
appraisal, and the actual costs were about US$ 117.3 million. The project
was prepared, signed, became effective, and closed as originally scheduled.
Prolect Sustainability
10.         Under IDP-III, strong performance and financial viability of the
two DFIs have been a major factor in successful implementation of the
project. The Government's timely compliance with needed reform in the areas
of trade and industrial policy and financial sector operations is, however,
instrumental to the long-term sustainability of the project. Other key
factors to achieving project sustainability are: (i) the performance of the
sub-borrowers with respect to the financial viability and profitability of
their operations, and the rate of return of their investment; and (ii)
efficient use of the supporting TA funds for capacity building of the
institutions involved in the project. In the absence of the adeq-uate
information on ex-post sub-project rates of return, it is not possible to
precisely assess the sustainability of benefits of the sub-projects. The
PCIs need to develop their information system in order to collect necessary
information on financed sub-projects for a more systematic evaluation of
sub-projects's performance.
IDA and Borrower Performance
11.         The performance of IDA and GOSL was satisfactory in
identification and timely preparation of IDP-III. IDA also played an
important role in DFIs institutional development and improvement of their
operations under this and other related projects. Project supervision was
adequate in terms of its frequency; they were, however, generally lacking
details of the TA component. IDA supervision missions were in general,
combined with those of other industrial projects; therefore, because of the
ambitious objectives and broad scope of the TA programs and large number of
beneficiaries under these projects, the supervision of TA became more
difficult and less effective.
Findings, Follow-up/Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
12.         To complement and expand the objectives and achievements of the
IDP-III and previous related industrial projects, IDA approved two
industrial sector operations, Fourth Small & Medium Industries (SMI-IV) in
1991 and Private Finance Development Project (PFDP) in 1993. The main
objectives of these projects were to make further contributions to policy
reform and institutional strengthening in the areas of trade policy and
financial sector operations and to provide credit through the banking system
for long-term capital investment in small, medium, and large scale
industries. The two projects are under supervision and implementing
satisfactorily. A Second PFDP line of credit is being prepared by the Bank
focusing on further improvement in the efficiency of the financial sector.
13.         Successful operations and sustainability of industrial finance
projects, by and large, depends on: (i) the internal efficiency of the



- iv -
participating credit institutions; (ii) the policy and reg4ulatory
environment in which these institutions operate; and (iii) success of the
financed sub-projects with respect to their profitability. The long-term
sustainability of the benefits from this project depends on the GOSL's
commitment to continue the implementation of the supporting TA programs in
the areas of trade policy, financial sector reform, and institutional
strengthening of the relevant agencies.
14.         Effective supervision and monitoring of the project by GOSL and
IDA is an integral to the success of the project. The lack of an effective
monitoring unit in the Government to coordinate and follow-up the TA
programs resulted in poor implementation of TA in certain areas.
15.         Design of TA is also critical to effective implementation of the
project. For TA to be effective, it should be more specific and targeted.
Goals should be set realistically and tasks should be set so that the
recipients feel capable of implementing the program. Despite continuous
efforts by the Bank and other donors to improve the institutional
capabilities of the publicly funded research and technology services, these
agencies remain inefficient and are unable to provide quality services to
the private sector. Therefore, the GOSL should make efforts at moving these
institutions towards demand-driven and commercially oriented technology
support services with qualified staff and advanced technology. Private
sector involvement in the management of these institutions could also
significantly improve the effectiveness and efficiency of these
institutions.
November 28, 1995



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
(CREDIT 1948-CE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.          Project Objectives - The objectives of the project were to: (i)
provide credit through the banking system to medium and large scale private
industrial enterprises; and (ii) support implementation of policy reform and
institutional strengthening in the areas of tariff administration, export
promotion, capital market, and technology development. Specifically, the
objectives were to: (a) continue the institution building of the two
Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), namely National Development Bank
(NDB) and Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) as well as other
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs); (b) assist the Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL) to implement the Second Export Development Plan and its phased
tariff reform program; (c) assist the GOSL to initiate implementation of its
1987 Industrial Policy Statement (IPS) objectives to strengthen industrial
technology development (ITD); (d) assist in developing a more efficient
capital market with the objective of increasing the sources of equity
finance for industry; and (e) provide support to GOSL to prepare the
regulatory framework for establishing an independent commercial
telecommunication authority. In addition, the project addressed
environmental issues by providing Technical Assistance (TA) for
environmental review capabilities of the PCIs and strengthening the
coordination among the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), line
ministries, and the PCIs.
2.          Evaluation of Obiectives - At the time, these were the right
objectives and important for the GOSL's development programs in the areas
mentioned above. These objectives were also in line with the Bank's country
assistance strategy and supportive of the IMF's Structural Adjustment
Facility. The project gave particular attention to the capacity building of
the concerned institutions and took further steps to support the industrial
enterprises through development of alternative sources of technical services
and strengthening the publicly funded technological infrastructure. IDP-III
correctly identified the bottlenecks to the private sector growth
(inefficiencies in Public Manufacturing Enterprises (PMEs), absence of a
developed capital market, shortages of critical human skills in industrial
sector, etc.) and provided assistance to the Government and implementing
institutions to alleviate these constraints. The scope of the project,
however, was very broad with no clear terms of reference for the
implementation of the TA programs in certain areas such as capital market
and environment.
3.          The prevailing ethnic disturbances was a risk to the
implementation of the project and performance of the DFIs and the sub-
projects. In view of this, steps were taken to carefully monitor the DFI's
operations and performance and viability of existing sub-projects.
Moreover, because most of the industrial activities and sub-projects are
concentrated in areas not directly affected by the ethnic disturbances, the
ethnic problems did not have much impact on the project implementation. As
the project supported the GOSL's IPS and the agreed IMF program, the risk
involved in implementing a fairly comprehensive policy reform program under



2
this project was minimized. The size of the IDP-III lending was geared to
the term lending capacities of the DFIs, demand by the private sector for
industrial finance, and the total project cost. Based on the project
pipeline of the DFIs and expected rate of growth of the manufacturing
sector, the total investment requirements by the PCIs for medium and large
scale industries was estimated at about US$ 120 million for FY88-90 of which
about 68 percent (US$ 81 m) was in foreign exchange. About 95 percent of
this amount was mobilized from multilateral funds and the balance of
investment requirement was provided by the sponsors. The Asian Development
Bank (ADB) supported this project by providing US$ 40.5 million for project
financing through a parallel line of credit on same terms and conditions as
those of IDA's.
B. Achievement of Obiectives
4.          The main components of the project were: (i) a credit component
of US$ 36.0 million for sub-project financing; and (ii) a TA component of
US$ 7.8 million for supporting the implementation of GOSL's policy reforms
and institutional strengthening.
5.          Implementation of the Credit Component - The credit component
was implemented highly satisfactorily and achieved its objectives. The
success of the lending component, by and large, was due to the effective
operations of the two DFIs; in particular, their performance in sub-project
appraisal and supervision and their loan collection performance.
Commitments and disbursements were ahead of the rate anticipated at the time
of appraisal mainly due to healthy and strong demand for term lending by the
private manufacturing industries. The credit component was 91 percent
committed to 126 medium and large scale industries and had significant
impact on employment generation. About 7,500 jobs were created with average
fixed investment per job of about US$ 10,400 (Annex I). As the commercial
banks participated late in the life of this projects their activities
limited to three banks and approval of 5 sub-loans.
6.          One of the positive features of IDP-III lending was low
incidence of problem loans. Based on the information provided by the DFIs
on the financed sub-projects, over 92 percent of sub-projects are performing
satisfactorily, completed at cost, are profitable and are regular in debt
servicing (Annex VI) . The sectoral distribution of sub-loans was consistent
with the major areas of activity expected to be financed at the time of
appraisal (Annex IV) . About 85 percent of sub-projects by amount and 95
percent of those by number were concentrated in a few Districts in the
Western Province (Annex V). Demand for sub-project financing in other parts
of the Island was low mainly because of lack of sufficient infrastructure.
Due to continued ethnic disturbances in Northern and Eastern Provinces no
sub-project lending had taken place in these two Provinces.
7.          Implementation of TA component - The implementation of TA for
institutional development of the participating intermediaries was highly
satisfactory and achieved its objectives. The project provided funding for
the development of the two DFIs' senior management and in-house expertise to
enable the institutions implement the diversification strategies with the
assistance of expatriate experts. Both NDB and DFCC fully and effectively
utilized their TA allocations and, by improving the organization
structure/managements and strengthening their human resources, have been
able to improve the efficiency of their operations and better service the
needs of the clients.



3
8.          The IDP-III TA programs for institutional development of PCIs
were also implemented satisfactorily and made significant contributions to
improving institutional capacities of the beneficiaries (Annex IX) . The
training programs have proven to be useful and successful in capacity
building mainly due to commitment of these banks in improving human
resources, staff motivation and carrier development objectives, and
availability of funds to benefit large number of staff.
9.          TA was also provided to the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) for its
operational review. Although this component was not within the original
objectives of the project, the program was in line with the overall
objectives of the IDA Third Small and Medium Industries Project (SMI-III;
Credit 1860-CE) which was approved in 1988. SMI-III initiated measures to
improve the financial sector operations including TA to the two state owned
commercial banks, People's Bank (PB) and BOC. The operational review of
these banks (Annex X) that started in 1988 under SMI-III and IDP-II was
undertaken by two international consultancy firms. These studies were
continued and further funded under IDP-III and SMI-IV and completed in 1992.
BOC has taken appropriate actions to implement the recommendations of the
studies to improve the credit policies and procedures. It, however, failed
to implement the recommendations in the area of technology (disregarding the
consultants' recommendations on suitable computer software) and human
resources (because of possible adverse reactions from staff unions). BOC
has reorganized the head office and some of the regional offices and is in
the process of reorganizing its branches. BOC's Management Information
System has also been improved.
10.         Policy Reforms/Sector Reforms - As a result of civil
disturbances spreading to the South in 1988-89 and later the Parliamentary
and Presidential elections in September/November 1989, the macro-economic
environment deteriorated sharply during 1987-88 period. In 1989, the new
Government lunched an adjustment program aimed at restoring macro-economic
balances and improving the incentive structure for the private sector
through privatization, trade reforms and fiscal adjustment. The 1989
adjustment program was supported by an IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility
and subsequently complemented by the IDA's Economic Restructuring Credit
(ERC; Credit 2128-CE). As the policy reform programs were also supported
under six other IDA (industrial and adjustment) projects during late 1980s
and early 1990s, it is not possible to evaluate precisely the impact of IDP-
III TA on the policy reforms. The IMF was simultaneously active in
financing and dialogue. As a result, the success of reform programs
addressed by IDP-III and macroeconomic developments during the life of the
project may not all be attributed to this project. The TA for policy reform
programs funded under this project was implemented with mixed result.
11.         Since 1989, there have been considerable efforts to implement
policy reforms in the areas mentioned above. On trade policy reform, the
import tariff structure was substantially simplified, stamp duties on
letters of credit were reduced, and export taxes were eliminated. To
promote exports, the incentive structure consisting of duty rebates, tax
holidays, and flexible exchange rate were maintained. In order to offer
further incentives to the private sector, income taxes were substantially
simplified and both personal and corporate income taxes were reduced. With
the introduction of excise taxes and strengthening of tax administration,
the custom tariffs were reduced (Table 7) and the turnover tax structure was
simplified. To further attract the foreign private investment, restrictions
on such investments were removed. In 1989, the GOSL also started to reform
the public enterprises through commercialization, peoplization and
contracting of management. The privatization program has made significant
progress in divesting a number of the PMEs since 1989. To ensure stability
of financial system and safeguard the public deposits, GOSL has taken



4
necessary measures and has made some progress in improving the debt recovery
legislation since 1990.
12.         The incentive framework for direct exporters was broadly
appropriate; there was, however, a need to extend these incentives to
indirect exporters as well. There was also a need for technical assistance
to further promote export development more effectively; fine-tune some of
the available instruments; make improvements in the areas such as export
financing, freight policy; and re-examine the institutional role and
functions of the Export Development Board (EDB). To assist the GOSL to
achieve these objectives, a US$ 400,000 TA was provided to EDB under this
project. A number of studies have been carried out by EDB on potential new
export promotion schemes and on the EDB's structure and operations (Table
7l. While the studies on identification of export promotion schemes were
useful, only a few recommendations were implemented and, overall, the impact
of the studies was low. Recommendations of some of the studies were not
practical and could not be implemented due to the political environment.
Findings of some of the studies on policy reforms were already identified by
the GOSL and the Bank and therefore, carrying out the study by EDB was not
necessary. In addition, these studies were initiated by EDB, which is a
public advisory agency and has no authority for policy implementation, and
for most parts were not reviewed by the Government implementing authorities,
such as Ministry of Finance and Planning. Recommendations of the study on
the organizational review of EDB were not implemented due to EDB's
resistance to change and lack of strong management. Based on the human
resources development study, some ad hoc foreign training programs were
crganized by EDB.
13.         TA was also provided for streamlining the custom clearing
roccedures and tariff reforms. A study tour was arranged in 1991 to
familiarize a number of government officials with the custom clearance
procedures in the countries in the region. On their return, they
recommended to the GOSL the adoption of the Pre-shipment Inspection (PSI)
for imports and exports. No action was taken by the government at that time
for the implementation of PSI. The matter was, however, revived in 1995 and
decision has been taken to introduce PSI in Sri Lanka. For study on tariff
reform see table 7.
14.         Upgrading Technology Development - The Government recognized
that, while the industrial and trade policy environment plays a major role
in determining the pace of ITD, the need for industry to become more
competitive in terms of integrated technology, quality and productivity is
equally important. To assist the government in meeting these needs and
overcome the constraints (absence of demand oriented technological
infrastructure and shortages of managerial, technical and skilled workers)
to technology development, IDP-III provided US$ 1.7 million TA fund for this
purpose (Annex IX) . This TA component provided assistance for: (a)
strengthening of technological infrastructure by promoting and facilitating
linkage between publicly funded research/standards/technology institutions
and industry through appropriate strategy and incentive system; and (b)
establishment of a technology development fund (TDF) as a temporary
financial incentive to private industrial enterprises, and on a cost sharing
basis, for financing of eligible and viable sub-projects. The result of TA
in this area varied by type of assistance and institutions.



5
15.         IDP-III provided US$ 1.0 million to three public research and
technology institutions l with the objective of making these agencies more
demand-oriented and more responsive to the industry's need. The CISIR
utilized the TA fund effectively and efficiently and, by and large, achieved
these objectives. In 1992, CISIR with the help of its counterpart in
Singapore (SISIR) has made substantial improvement in its organizational
structure and functions and human resources development. The CISIR shifted
its focus from scientific supply-oriented research to industrial demand-
oriented projects, has moved toward a more commercially oriented
institution, improved the capacity of its staff through training programs,
and upgraded its equipments and laboratories. The SLSI's utilization of the
allocated fund was poor and the TA barely achieved its objectives. The TA
was basically used for SLSI institutional development including improving in
the accounting/database computer system and staff training and promotion of
standards for small industries which were not the target groups under IDP-
III. NERDC also failed to achieve most of the above objectives due to lack
of clear goals, strategy, and motivation.
16.         To assist the improvement of technology development in the
private industrial enterprises, IDP-III allocated US$ 500,000 through the
PCIs as partial grant to the private sector for financing TA programs
(technology adoption, efficiency improvement, promoting productivity, etc.).
The objective of the TDF was to provide a temporary financing scheme to
overcome the difficulties caused by lack of venture capital and technology
financing, share the risk with private enterprises for R&D projects in
absorbing and modifying imported technology, stimulate technology supply and
demand, and promote alternative technology sources in industry. The
utilization of TDF was slow at the beginning because of lack of knowledge
about availability of the fund. However, as this fund was aggressively
publicized by NDB and other PCIs, utilization of fund improved substantially
in later years. Due to attractiveness and usefulness of this scheme,
additional fund was allocated in 1994-1995 from the unutilized TA funds and
by the time of project closing about US$ 900,000 TA was provided to about
100 industries for their technology development sub-projects.
17.         Although the project addressed issues in the capital market
activities, no TA was provided for the development of capital market and the
project did not have any impact in this area. The same is true for the
environmental issues mentioned in para 1.
18.         TA to the Telecommunications Authority - To ensure effective and
orderly supervision and regulation of the massive telecommunications
development which started in late 1980s, the GOSL decided to restructure the
Sri Lanka Telecommunications Department as part of its privatization
strategy. The Department was restructured into a Telecommunications
Authority (SLTA) for regulating telecommunication services and a
Telecommunication Corporation for provision of such services. The SLTA was
formed in July 1991. The IDP-III TA was designed to assist the SLTA in
starting its operations and acquire necessary skilled staff and equipment.
A total of US$ 3.3 million was provided for: (i) procurement of
instrumentation system for monitoring the usage of radio frequency; (ii)
recruitment of national experts to undertake the main tasks entrusted to
this body in the first year of operations; and (iii) consultancy of
International Telecommunication Unit (ITU) to help the implementation of the
project (technical assistance, training, etc). This project was implemented
satisfactorily; however, there were delays in implementing certain
1/ Ceylon Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research (CISIR); Sri Lanka
Standardization Institute (SLSI); and National Engineering and Research
Development Center (NERDC).



6
components. The development of the regulatory authority since 1991 resulted
in a massive private sector investment in the telecommunications which made
Sri Lanka the most liberalized market in Asia. The instrumentation system
was installed satisfactorily and is operational. The ITU completed a study
on the SLTA operations and structure in 1992. Its recommendations for
management, training and suitable hardware and software system have not been
fully implemented. The SLTA has not been able to fill the required skilled
staff position approved by the Cabinet and therefore, has not been able to
fully implement the ITU recommendations for management, training and
suitable hardware/software systems and has not been able to operate at full
capacity (Annex IX).
C. Malor Factors Affectina The Project
19.         Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control: Effective
utilization of TA by the DFIs and commercial banks for institutional
upgrading and their commitment to improve their operations were instrumental
to the satisfactory implementation of the credit component (para. 7). Other
Factors: There was a strong demand by the private manufacturing sector for
long-term capital investment. Satisfactory sub-projects' performance in
profitability and debt servicing also contributed to the project success.
Factors generally subject to Government Control: On the positive side,
continued Bank/Fund dialogue with the GOSL on policy reforms also had major
impact on improvement of trade and industrial policy and paved the way for
Bank's further assistance in industrial finance. On the negative side, one
of the factors that affected the implementation of the TA programs in the
policy reform areas and institutional development for public technology
services was that the commitment made by the relevant ministries to
effectively utilize the TA funds for the implementation of these programs
did not fully materialize during project implementation. To coordinate and
monitor the TA programs, IDP-III proposed the establishment of an IDP
Monitoring Unit (IMU) in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). IMU was not
effective in monitoring the TA programs mainly because of staff shortage and
lack of the necessary follow-up and a proper recording system. Despite
IDA's efforts in supporting the unit through funding the consultants,
computers, and training, IMU was not able to improve its functions and did
not properly and effectively monitor the TA activities. This adversely
affected the implementation of some TA programs and achievements of the
project objectives in certain areas.
D. Proiect Sustainability
20.         Strong performance and financial viability of the finance
institutions participated in the project have contributed significantly to
the success of the credit component under the project. The PCIs loan
collection performance, which is an indicator of their internal efficiency,
has been highly satisfactory under this project and other IDA operations.
However, the positive impact of this project and other financial
intermediation operations may not be sustainable in the long-term without
further improving the efficiency in the financial sector and strengthening
the institutional and regulatory framework within which financial
institutions operate. Insufficient access to term savings, weakness in debt
recovery legislation and banking supervision, and lack of secondary markets
in debt instruments have been the major constraints to the efficient
operations of the financial system in Sri Lanka. Financial policy issues
which were addressed under this project were focused by the two following
operations, SMI-IV and Private Finance Development Project (PFDP). GOSL's



7
success in implementing the elements of the financial sector reform program
is the key to the long-term sustainability of the intermediation operations
that have been designed to support the industrial sector projects.
21.           While the DFIs' performance in the sub-project appraisal,
commitments and disbursements was satisfactory, they were not able to
effectively follow-up the sub-projects performance after the sub-loans were
made and did not have any information on sub-projects ex-post economic rate
of return. This weakness has made it difficult to precisely and
systematically assess the sustainability of benefits of the sub-projects.
Based on the information on sub-project's profitability, employment
generation, and debt servicing performance (Annex VI), as well as strong
demand for this type of financing by the private manufacturing industries,
expected net benefit of sub-projects is likely to be sustainable. IDP-III,
like the previous two IDPs, required 30 percent equity participation by
industries. Encouraging high6r equity contribution to investment financing
by the sub-borrowers and decreasing IDA's and ADB's refinancing shares can
have significant impact on the sub-projects' success and sustainability.
E. IDA Performance
22.         The IDA's performance in identifying and designing IDP-III was
timely and in line with the GOSL's development objectives and the Bank's
country assistance strategy of 1988-93 (para 2). The project did not
provide a clear objective and terms of reference for the IDP Monitoring unit
and overestimated the EDB's capabilities to implement the recommendations of
certain studies on policy reform areas.
23.          IDA sent 10 supervision missions beginning with project
effectiveness (May 1989), with last mission in May, 1995 prior to project
closing (June 30, 1995). Although the project supervision was adequate in
terms of its frequency, the comprehensiveness and details of the TA
supervision reports were generally lacking. For instance, while SAR made
references to developing capital market and environmental review of
industrial projects and allocated TA for the CEA, neither supervision
reports nor the documents in the project file contained discussions
regarding these components. Combined supervision missions with those of
IDA's other industrial sector projects, ambitious objectives and broad scope
of the TA programs under these projects, various policy related issues,
large number of beneficiaries, and lack of clear and detailed terms of
reference and implementation timetable for some TA programs made supervision
of the TA more difficult and less effective. Other contributing factors
were insufficiency of time in the field and number of people to carry out
missions (one person per supervision mission). IDA enforced the compliance
with the financial and loan covenants and also the Bank policies and
procedures, it was not, however, effective in enforcing the compliance with
audit and reporting requirements.
F. Borrower Performance
24.         The GOSL's close cooperation with IDA and its responsiveness to
meeting the agreed policy measures during the preparation of the project
were important factors in the timely approval of the project. The
performance of the two DFIs in the utilization of TA component for their
institutional development, their management in channeling the credit
components to the sub-borrowers, and their compliance with the financial and
reporting covenants was highly satisfactory (Annexes VII & VIII). SLTA and



8
CISIR performed well and were committed to implement their respective
projects. The performance of other government institutions (EDB, SLSI,
NERDC), however, was poor in implementing various TA components both for
institutional development and policy reform projects. Project reporting by
DFIs for the credit component was satisfactory; that for the TA component
was sporadic and of poor quality mainly as a result of the weaknesses of the
IMU and its lack of coordination with TA beneficiaries. GOSL's performance
in providing timely audits of the Project Accounts was unsatisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
25.         The overall project performance has been rated satisfactory, as
the project achieved, for the most part, its development objectives and was
implemented satisfactorily (para 4-18).
H. Follow-up/Future Operations
26.         To further contribute to policy reforms and institutional
strengthening in the areas of trade, industrial and financial sector policy,
two projects (SMI-IV and PFDP) were approved by the Board in 1991 and 1993,
respectively (para 20). The main objectives of these projects were to
complement and expand on the objectives of the IDP-III, and provide credit
for long-term capital investment to the growing private manufacturing
sector. The GOSL's statement of sector policy under these two projects
outlined its longer term commitment to rationalize the public sector and
provide an environment that further develop the private sector, continue the
improvement of tax administration and reforms, and further develop the
financial sector in order to facilitate more efficient mobilization and
allocation of domestic resources for the development objectives.2 GOSL has
taken significant steps in achieving these objectives and establishing a
financial system more conducive to industrial development. A lot has been
achieved although more remains to be done. The GOSL is committed to
continue to reform the present financial and industrial policy under the two
ongoing projects, SMI-IV and PFDP. The Bank is currently preparing a follow
up project to PFDP, PFDP-II, which focuses on further improving the
efficiency of the financial sector.
I. Lessons Learned
27.         Based on the above assessment of the project, the main lessons
learned, some of which brought out by the completion reports for earlier IDP
projects, are summarized as follows:
(i)         The sustainability of the financial intermediary operations is a
function of several factors:
o     Financial viability of the credit institutions and their
efficient loan administration (sub-loan appraisal and
supervision). The satisfactory implementation of the credit
component was, by and large, due to the efficient operations of
the two DFIs.
2/ See Appendix A for GOSL's Statement of Financial Sector Policy under the
PFDP.



9
o     Satisfactory implementation of the supporting TA programs.
Sound financial system and efficient regulatory and
institutional framework is conducive to the long-term
sustainability of term finance for the development projects.
GOSL's continued efforts in implementing the elements of the
financial sector reform is the key to achieving these
objectives.
o     Satisfactory rate of return of the sub-projects.  In the absence
of information on ex-post economic rate of return, it is
difficult to precisely assess the benefits of the sub-projects.
The PCIs need to streamline their information system and
monitoring activities in order to obtain a more systematic
information on the economic benefits of sub-projects.
(ii)       Absence of an effective and proper system for monitoring and
recording of the TA programs and lack of coordination between the TA
recipients and the government implementing authorities contributed to the
poor utilization, lack of sustainability, and low impact of TA in certain
areas. In order to improve the effectiveness and utilization of TA, the
GOSL needs to develop a proper procedure for evaluation, monitoring,
supervision, and documenting/reporting of the TA programs. Given the
ambitious objectives and broad scope of the TA programs and given weak
management and organizational capabilities of the Government, IDA needs to
strengthen the emphasis of its supervision effort for the TA activities and
improve upon the design of the TA programs.
(iii)            The design and scope of the TA is also critical to
achieving the project objectives. For TA to be effective, design and
objectives should be more specific and targeted.
o     Precise and clear terms of reference for the TA programs should
be defined and realistic time table for implementation should be
set in the project implementation plan.
o     Goals should be set up so that they can be reasonably achieved
within a reasonable time period.
o     Tasks should be set up taking into account the capabilities of
the TA recipient as well as the prevailing political
constraints.
O     The right incentive system should be in place to ensure that the
TA recipients support the changes and maintain their commitment
throughout the life of the project.
In Sri Lanka, despite continuous efforts by IDA and other donors at
strengthening the role of the publicly funded research, advisory, and
technology services (CISIR, NERDC, SLSI, EDB), deficiencies still exist due
to lack of: (a) incentive to improve and change, (b) clear direction, and
(c) private sector demand for their services. In order to improve the
efficiency of the public advisory organizations and make them more
responsiveness to private sector demand, efforts should be made at moving
these institutions towards demand-driven, commercially oriented support
agencies with more advanced technology and qualified staff. Private sector
involvement in their management could also significantly improve the
effectiveness of these institutions for acquisition and diffusion of
technology.
November 28, 1995



10
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Obiectives           Substantial        Partial          Nezfitible          Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                  ()               ()                ()                   (4)
Sector policies                         ( )             (4)                ( )                   ( )
Financial objectives                   (V)               ( )               ( )                   ( )
Institutional development            DFIs(4)    Public Agencies(H)         ( )                   (
Physical objectives                     ( )             ( )                ( )                  (V)
Poverty reduction                       ( )              ( )               ( )()
Gender concerns                         ( )              ( )               ( )                  (4)
Other social objectives                 ( )              ( )               ( )                  (4)
Environmental objectives                ( )              ( )               (4)                   ( )
Public sector management                ( )             (4)                ( )                   ( )
Private sector development             (4)               ()                ()                    ()
Other (specify) - Employment generation  (4)             ( )               ( )                   ( )
B.  Project Sustainability                  Likely                 Unlikely                Uncertain
el)                     0                       0
Hiahly
C.  Bank performance                     Satisfactory            Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                           (4)                     ( )                     ( )
Preparation assistance                   (4)                     ()                      ( )
Appraisal                                ()                      (4)                     ()
Supervision                              ()                      (4)                     ()
Hiahlv
D.  Borrower performance                 Satisfactory            Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                              (4)                     ()                      ()
Implementation                           ()                      (4)                     ()
Covenant Compliance                      ( )                     (4)                     ( )
Operation (if applicable)                ( )                     ( )                     ( )
Highly                                                      Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome             Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
0               (4)               (                         (



:i
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit                                      Purpose                                 Year of  1  Status
Title                                                                                    approval l
Preceding
Operations
1. Small and        Promote private industrial development focusing on SMI's             1979       Closed
Medium              assistance through addressing constraints hindering their                       on
Industries,         rapid growth in order to increase their contribution to                         06/30/85
$ 16 m (SMI I)      employment generation, export expansion, and economic
Credit 942-CE       growth.
2. Second Small    To support and expand on the SMI I objectives.                        1981       Closed
and Medium                                                                                          on
Industries                                                                                          12/31/87
Proj., $ 28 m
(SMI II) Credit
1182-CE
3. Industrial       Provide term credit through DFIs to assist in strengthening          1983       Closed
Development         the system of industrial financing, assist in trade and                         on
Project (IDP-I)    industrial reforms, and provide technical assistance to                          09/30/88
$ 25 m              improve selected PMEs.
Credit 1401-CE
4. Second           Complement previous and on-going industrial sector                   1986       Closed
Industrial          operations to provide credit through banking system to                          on
Development         medium- and large-scale private industrial enterprises,                         06/30/94
Project $ 20 m      support implementation of GOSL's policy reforms and
(IDP-II)            institutional strengthening.
Credit 1692-CE
5. Third Small      Complement and expand previous industrial sector operations         1987        Closed
and Medium          by: (i) providing credit to the SMI private manufacturing                       on
Industries          enterprises; and (ii) make a further contribution to policy                     06/30/93
Project             reform and institutional strengthening in the areas of
$ 20 m              tariff
(SMI-III)           administration, export promotion and financial sector
Credit 1860-CE      operations.
Following
Operations
1  Public          To support a reform program to commercialize, modernize and         1990        Closing;
Manufacturing       privatize public manufacturing enterprises to promote                           extended
Enterprise          efficiency and growth.                                                          to 05/96
Adjustment
Credit
$ 120 m
(PMEAC)
Credit 2185-CE
2. Fourth Small    Complement previous and on-going industrial and financial
and Medium          sector intermediation; to provide credit for SMI development    1991            On-going
Industries          and to make further contributions to policy reform and                          Closing
Project             institutional strengthening in the area of trade policy                         06/30/97
$ 45 m              administration and financial sector operations.
(SMI-IV)
Credit 2250-CE
3. Private          Provide investment finance to the private sector; assist in         1993        On-going
Finance             domestic resource mobilization for long-term investment by                      Closing
Development         stimulating the development of local bond market; further                       06/30/99
Project, $ 60 m    assist the GOSL in improving the financial sector operations
(PFDP) Credit       through strengthening the financial intermediation including
2484-CE             the key players such as contractual savings institutions.



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned               Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                        October 1986               October 1986
Preparation                           November 1987              November 1987
Appraisal                             March 1988                 March 1988
Negotiations                          May 1988                   May 1988
Letter of development policy (if    NA                           NA
applicable)
Board presentation                    July 1988                  July 1988
Signing                               September 1988             Septeiber 1988
Effectiveness                         March 1989                 March 1989
First tranche release (if             NA                         NA
applicable)                                                                              l
Midterm review (if applicable)        NA                         NA
Second (and third) trance release   NA                           NA
(if applicable)                                                                          l
Project completion                    June 1994                  June 1994
Loan closing                          June 1995                  June 1995
NA = Not Applicable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY89    FY90     FY91              FY93              FY5    FY96
Appraisal             7.0     13.0    21.0    31.0    38.0    41.0    43.8          0.0
estimate
Actual                4.3      8.0     18.5    29.2    38.3    40.0    40.1    40.8
Actual as t of       61.4    61.5    88.0    94.1    100.7    97.5    91.5
estimate
Date of final disbursement                 November 14, 1995



13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementacion
I. Key implementation
indicators in
SAR/President's Report                 Estimated                         Actual
1. Sub-loan financing           1. Utilization of credit        1. Details of the impact of
component for increasing        loan financing is presented
capital and employment in       in Annex I
the private sector. SAR
required at least 25% of
loan proceeds be utilized
for above free limit (US$
500,000) sub-loans.
2. disbursement rate            2. Disbursement of credit        2. See Table 4
component based on the
schedule in SAR
3. Financial performance of    3. Implementation of their    3. Business diversification
the DFIs and their loan          business diversification        plan was successfully
collection performance           plan to improve efficiency    implemented (para. 7). Both
in their operations and        DFIs are performing well in
maintenance of the financial  terms of profitability,
covenants required under the  efficiency, and liquidity.
project                         Also see Annexes VII & VIII
for their compliance with the
criteria under the project.
4. Sub-project performance       4. Adequate number of viable  4. See Annexes I and VI
sub-projects to be
materialized in order to
fully utilize the credit
fund
5. Sectoral distribution of    5. Major areas of activities  5. See Annex IV
sub-loans                        per SAR: agro-industries,
chemical, rubber products,
light engineering,
construction-related,
industrial services.
II. Modified indicators         Not Applicable (NA)             NA
(if applicable)
III. Other indicators (if       NA                              NA
applicable)



14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating
indicators in
SAR/President's Report              Estimated                      Actual
1. DFCC and NDB Strategy      1. Formulation of             1. The consultancies were
on Corporate Planning.        corporate strategy,           successfully completed.
organizational               Both DFCC and NDB are
restructuring to suite       financially sound,
the diversified              efficiently managed, and
activities, and human        they can now better serve
resource development.        the clients.
II.Modified indicators (if  NA                              NA
applicable)
III. Modified indicators      NA                            NA
for future operation (if
applicable)



15
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                 at appraisal          Status      Impact of the Study
1. Restructuring    Improve its            carried      Recommendations were not
of EDB              operational an         out in       implemented; had limited impact
financial autonomy,   August-      on human resource development
its human              September
resources, and its    1990
effectiveness in
promoting exports
in Sri Lanka
2. Targeting of    To reduce                Carried     Had no impact as the
export Oriented    unemployment and        out in       recommendations found to be
Companies in         improve               December    impractical due to difficult
Korea and Hong      technological           1991        political environment
Kong for            advancement.
relocation to Sri
Lanka - EDB
3. Identification  To improve market       Carried      Implemented to some extent.
of New Export       and product             out in
Products for        development            January
Development and                             1991
Promotion in Sri
Lanka - EDB
4. Sea Freight      To improve freight    Carried       The study was unnecessary as
Policy - EDB        policy to further      out in       problems were already identified
help exporters        December    by the GOSL; reforms were
1991        underway
5. Export Trading  To link the small       Carried      Recommendations were revised by
House -EDB          producers to large    out in        EDB and adopted; an Export
scale exporters to   December    Trading House scheme was designed
market the SMI         1991        by EDB and proposal was submitted
products                           to GOSL few years after the study
was completed
6. Human Resource  To strengthen the       Carried      Local and foreign training
Development Study  skills and capacity  out in          programs were organized and
- EDB               of the staff           August       funded under IDA projects
1991                                             l
7. Study on         Analyzing the four    Carried       recommended the four-band tariff
tariff structure   band tariff             out in       structure of 50%,35%,20t, & 10%
carried out by      structure and study  November    instead of 13-band system;
the PTC             restructuring the      1992         abolition of surcharges on import
export tariff                      duties; reduce and then abolish
ad valorem duty on tea; etc.
Recommendations were mostly
incorporated and GOSL has even
progressed beyond the recomm. of
report. Presently max. tariff is
35% and 3-band system is in
operation; some export duties
were removed; etc.



16
Table BA: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item         Local    Foreign   Total    Local        Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs               Costs       Costs
1. Sub-projects       38.0     75.5      113.5    36.0        71.0        107.0
Investment
2. Technical           2.0       8.8      10.8      2.0        8.3         10.3
Assistance
Total                40.0      84.3     124.3    38.0        79.3        117.3
Table BE: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)  Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign  Total    Local        Foreign   Total
Source          Costs   Costs               Costs      Costs
IDA                            43.8      43.8      _          40.8       40.8
Cofinancing            -       40.5      40.5      -          38.5       38.5
Institution
(ADB)
Sponsors (local)      39.0     -         39.0      37.0       -          37.0
Domestic               1.0      -         1.0       1.0       -           1.0
contribution
(GOSL)            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TOTAL                40.0     84.3    124.3       37.7       79.3      117.3
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
[Ex-post ERR was not calculated for Sub-projects]



17
Table 10: Status of Main Legal Covenants
Agreement       Section      Covenant      Present        Original          Revised
type          status         fulfillment       fulfillment            Description of covenant                     Comments
date              date
Credit          Article 4   2              Complied       4 months after   No revision         Borrower to provide records of    The project audit reports
(a-i)                      with          each FY                              project/Special Accounts and         were continuously delayed;
delays for                                         SOEs audited in accordance          the 1994 audit has not been
previous                                           with sound auditing principles    submitted yet.
years                                              by independent auditors no
later than four months after
the end of each fiscal year.
Article 4   2              Complied       4 months after   No revision         The PCIs to provide IDA their       Satisfactory compliance
(a-ii)                     with          each FY                              audited financial statements
no later than four months
after the end of each year.
Schedule    12             Partial        See Comment                          The Borrower shall carry out        No date was specified in DCA.
4 (2)                      compliance                                          export development measures,        The policy reform programs
tariff reform, strengthening        were also supported under six
of DFCC and NDB, and debt           other IDA projects during
recovery improvements.              late 1980s and early 1990s.
IMF was simultaneously active
in financing and dialogue.
Article 4   2              Complied                                            DFCC and NDB maintain a             Debt/equity requirement for
with                                               debt/equity ratio of 8:1 and        NDB was changed to 8:1 in
4:1 respectively.  They             early 1993.  PCIs should
maintain a minimum collection       comply on continuous basis.
ratio of 75%, a minimum return
on equity of 9%, and debt
service ratio of 1.2. Other
PCIs should maintain 10'
return on asset, 14:1
debt/equity ratio, and 15%
portfolio infection ratio.



18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There are no incidence of non compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned 1/               Revised 1/                    Actual
project cycle         Weeks        US$         Weeks        US$            Weeks        US$ (000)
Through appraisal                                                              84.6           178.6
Appraisal-Board                                                                27.1            58.3
Board-effectiveness                                                             NA              NA
Supervision                                                                   102.0           229.6
Completion                                                                      8.0            17.5
221.7          484.0
TOTAL
1/ Available only after FY94.



19
Bank Resources: Missions 1/
Performance rating
Stage of project        Month/y    Number      Days    Specialized
cycle                   ear          of          in     staff skills    Implementation   Development    Types of
persons     field   represented        status           impact         problems
Through appraisal        10/1986      4         20       Economists
12/1987     4          16      (Trade
03/1988     4          21      Economists)
& Financial
Analysts
Appraisal through        NA         NA        NA
Board approval
Board approval through  NA          NA        NA
effectiveness
Supervision 1/           05/1989      1         10       Financial      The rating has    The               Implement
08/1989     1           7      analysts;      been                development    ation of
12/1989     1          15      Economists      satisfactory       impact has      TA in
11/1990     1          20                     throughout the    also been         certain
07/1991     2          11                     project             satisfactory   areas;
07/1992     2          14                      supervision        .              Audit and
06/1993     2          16                                                         reporting
11/1993     2          17                                                        by the
04/1994     2          20                                                        GOSL
05/1995     2          20
Completion               05/1995      2           5      Financial
analyst;
Economists
1/ The IDP-III missions were, in general, combined with those of other IDA's intermediation operations.
No record is available as how the time/number of staff was split between the projects. Therefore, time for
supervision missions, spent on the IDP-III was much less than time indicated above.



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                        Annex I
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-LOAN FINANCING - UNDER IDA CREDIT
NDB             DFCC               Total NDB + DFCC 3/
Amount/No.    % of Total
Sub-project's costs (Rs. Million)         1,171            1,970             3,141          100%
Of which:
IDA                                      538               768             1,306           42%
Client                                    633              644             1,276           41 /o
Other                                     -                559               559           18%
% of Sub-Projects Above Free Limit
Amount (Net of Cancellations)             50%              46%
Number                                    12%              14%
Number of Sub-Projects                      57                64               126
Of Which:
Export-Oriented Sub-Projects               21               28                49           39%
Expansion Sub-Projects                    41                55                96           76%
Number of Jobs Created                   2,678             4,783             7,461
Average Cost / Jobs (Rs.)              437,080           411,978           420,988
Average Cost / Jobs (US Dollar) 1/       10,838           10,216            10,439
Average Size of Sub-Loans (US Dollar) 1/   234,046       297,560           257,019
1/ Conversion factor is the average exchange rates for 1989-1992.



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                                             Annex 11
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT APPROVAL - DFCC
(In SDR)
Date                                           Amount        Amount         Net        Amount
Project No.   Authorized           Subproject Name            Approved      Canceled    Committed   Disbursed
Su b-project above iree limit (US$ 500,000)
1    A1.1       04/19/89      Celltel Lanka Ltd.                      1.482,554      75.776    1,405,778   t.405.778
2    A1.4       07/26/89       Ceylon Brewery Ltd.                     619,420       15.432      603.988     603,986
3    A1.5       07/27189       Lever Bros (Ceylon) Ltd.               2.144,409     919,857   tU224.552   1.224,552
4    A1.6       07131/89       Nihila Garments Ltd.                    645,700      455,238      t90.462     190,462
5    A1.7       03/12/90      James Finlay & Co. (Colombo) Ltd.        955,175         1109      954,066     954.066
6    At.8       081t3/90       Maghooras Industries                    364.271       21,487      342,794     342.784
7    A1.9       10122/90       Swadeshi Industrial Works               662.350      103,396      558,954     558,954
8    A1.10      01/28/91       Deutsch LankaTextile Mills              991,096                   991,096     991.095
9    A1.1 1     06/06/91       Van Rees                                469,425        7/928      397,497     397,497
Total "A" Sub-projects                                         9.763,866    3,835.504    5,9289362   6,669R76
Sub-project below free limit (US$ 500,000)
tO    B1.1       03/1t2/89      BataSlhoe                               199.526       64.8t9      134,707     134,707
11    B1.2       04/26/89       Unichela Ltd.                            69.320       20,346       46,974      48,974
12    81.3       04/26/89       BataShoe Co. Ltd.                       23t,050       86,949      t44,101     144,101
13    B1.4       07/14/89       Lankem Ceylon Ltd.                       15.9t0        2,536       13.374      t3,374
14    B1.5       07/14(89       Ceylon Glass Co. Ltd.                   115,000       25.569       89,431      89.431
15    61.6       07114/89       Ceylon Glass Co. Ltd.                   265,150       79.072      186,078     186,078
16    61.7       07114/89       Unichela(Pvt)Ltd.                       380,600      103.702      276.798     276,798
17    6t.9       07/t9189      Pure Beverages Co. Ltd.                  2tS,750       46,5tt      t72,239     t72,239
18    B1.11      08/15/89       Shums Products                           23,100        4,509       18.592      18,592
19    61.12      t t/06189      St. Anthony's Consolidated Ltd.         t1.400         6,592        7,808       7,908
20    61.13      11/22/89       D. Samson Industries Ltd.                168.200      20,484      147,716     147.7t6
21    61.14      11/22/89       Unichela (Pvt.) Ltd.                     63,200        5,506       57,694      57.694
22    B1.15      01/19/90       Williams Confectionery Ltd.              138,970      28.064      110,906     110.906
23    61.16      02(07(90       Etacol Colombo                          257,650       44.226      2t3.424     213.424
24    61.17      02)07/90       Blow-O-Matic                             95,425        4,773       90.652      90,652
25    B1.18      03/01/90       Atken Spence (Garments) Ltd.            21t9200       64,656      153,544     153.544
26    B1.19      03/15/90       PolypakSecoo                            207.310        5,811      201,499     201,499
27    61.20      03/15190       Ceylon TeaService                       191.035       13,619      177.416     177,416
28    B1.21      03115190       Assoc. Battery                          339,395       32.6t0      306,785     306,785
29    B1.22      03(15(90       Mackwoods-Winthrop                       114,620      25.804       88,816      88.816
30    B1.23      04/19(90       Glaxo Ceylon                             66,600        7.874       58,726      58,726
31    81.24      10/12/90       New Interior Pvt Ltd.                    115,210       6,9857     109,353     109,353
32    61.25      10/12(90       WrjayaTeaFactory                          9,500          132        9.368       8,368
33    61.26      10/12/90       Ranweli(Pvt) Ltd.                        63,974        2,854       61,120      61,120
34    61.27      10112190       Ceymac Rubber                            80.849       23,460       57,389      57.389
35    61.29      10(12/90       Shermans Sons Limited                    19.700          288       19,412      19.412
36    B1.30      10(12/90       Link Natural Products                     88,512       4,978       83,534      83.534
37    61.31      10(12190       Nihon International Invest               60,670        8.181       52,489      52.489
38    61.32      10/22/90       Pure Bleverages                         256,060       12,469      243,991     243.591
39    B1.33      10/22(90       Moosajees Ltd.                           22,650        6.544       16 106      16,106
40    61.34      10/26/90       Ravi Industries                         208.640       59.934      148,706     148,706
41    61.35      11(21(90       Ceylon Glass Co. Ltd.                   256.170       30.653      225,517     225,517
42    B1.36      11(21/90       Singha Valley Tea Factory               104.850       21,446       83,404      83,404
43    B1.37      11(21(90       Diesel & Motor Engineering              209,707       83,911      125,796     125.796
44    B1.38      01(07/91       Ceylon Paints & General Ltd.            271,290      151.777      119,513     119,513
45    B1.39      01/07/91       Polypak Secco Limited                   133.545        9.996      124,649     124.649
46    B1.40      01(07(91       Samson Industries Limited                71,035       21.129       49,906      49,906
47    B1.41      01(07(91       E/W(Clearing & Forwarding) Lld.          32,360          639       31,721      31,721
48    61.42      01128(91       Inter Brush Lanka Limited               142.145                   142,145     142,145
49    B1.43      06(06/91       Beico Link Carbons (Pvt) Ltd.           147,455       14,804      132,651     132,651
50    B1.44      03(09/92       Ceylon Footwear Ltd.                     32,860         5864       26,996      26.996
51    61.48      03/09/92       Ceylon Brewery Ltd.                     210,165        72255      137,910     137,910
62    B1.46      04113192       Pure Metals                             187,460        9,331      179,129     178,129
53    61.47      04(13(92       Regency Garments Lld.                   255.656       28,452      227,204     227,204
54    61.49      03(19892       Rockland Distilleries                   261,600       19,522      243,078     243.078
55    61.50      03(19(92       Varna Ltd.                               94,177         9910       84,267      84.267
66    61.51      04(13/92       Midaya Pvt. Ltd.                         61,130         2537       48.593      48,593
57    61.52      06/11/92       Tri-StarApparel Exports Ltd.            248,420       97,379      151.041     151.041
58    61.53      10/06892       Rauarata Garments Limitted              202,250         2241      200,009     200,009
59    61.54      10t06/92       Kama! PVC Ltd.                           40,434           92       40.342      40,342
60    61.55      10(06892       Maxim Pvt. LimItted                      60,674          266       60,408      60.408
61    61.56      10(21/92       Jewelknit Limited                       320,405       22,056      298,349     298,349
62    61.57      10(21/92       Orient Garments Ltd.                    320,405        12750      307.655     307,655
83    B1.58      12(02/92       Penguin Sportswear                      207.141       100849      106.292     106,292
64    B1.59      12/02/92       M Samson Silva                          360.246        14938      345,308     345.308
Total " Sub-projects                                            8,946,756    1,957.525    6,989,231   6,989.231
TOTAL "A. B" Sub-proects                                      18,710,622    5,793.029   12.917,593  13,658,407



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                                              Annex III
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT APPROVAL - NDB
Sub-project       Date                                             Amount       Amount         Net         Amount
No.             Approved              Sub-project Date            Approved     Cancelled    Committed   Disbursed
Sub-projects above tree limit (USS 500,000)
t    A2.1         04/19/90        Shadowline (Pct.) Ltd.                  516,920       223,309      293,611     293,611
2    A2.2         08/08/90        Ceylon Petroleum Corp                  2,080,010      471,914     1,608,096    1,608,096
3    A2.3          11/05/90       Ceylon Tobacco Co                       963,580       153,047      810,533      810,533
4    A2.4          11/05190       Richard Peiris Exports Ltd              473,312                    473,3t2      473,3t2
5    A2.5         02/27/91        Lanka Multi Moulds (Pvt) Ltd.           440,435           124      440,311      440,311
6    A2.6         02/27/91        Dankotuwa Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd           425,460        38,385      387,075      387,075
7    A2.8         02/28/91        Pugoda Textile Mills (Modern)           459,674                    459,674      459,674
Total "A" Sub-projects                                            5,359,390      886,779    4,472,611    4,472,611
Sub-projects below free limit (US$ 500,000)
8    B2.1         03/12/89        Macson Mesh                             242,415        68,926      173,489      173,489
9    B2.2         03/12/89        Tootal Thread                            109,447       18,611       90,836       90,836
10    B2.3         03/12/89        Hanwella Rubber                          166,787       12,204      154,583      154,583
11    82.4         03/12/89        CSD Auto Service                        168,635        43,977      124,658      124,658
12    B2.5         03/12/89        Tropical Foliage                         28,830         2,823       26,007       26,007
13    B2.7         03/12/89        ABC Containers                           52,419         6,428       45,991       45.991
14    B2.8         03/12/89        Performance Motors                       166,787       56,052      110,735      110,735
15    B2.11        03/12/89        SMAWorldwide                             139.101       59.802       79,299       79,299
16    B2.12        03/12/89        Hemas Drugs                             129,387        34.591       94,796       94,796
17    B2.13        03/12/89        United Tractor                          129,387        34.591       94,796       94,796
18    B2.16        03112189        Heenatigala Garments                     70,111                     70,111       70,111
19    B2.17        03112/89        McLarens Service                         71,556         3,289       68,267       68,267
20    B2.18         01119190       Andriez Co. Ltd.                          15.670        2.848        12,822      12,822
21    B2.19         01119/90       Shatez Industries                         62,260       11,938       50,322       50,322
22    B2.22         01/23/90       Lakmedura Pvl. Ltd.                       64,750       11.131       53,619       53,619
23    B2.23         01/23/90       Three Acre Farms                         109.980       34.338       75,642       75,642
24    B2.24         02/16/90       D. Samson Industries                      62.562       16.870       45,692       45,692
25    B2.25         02/16/90       Samson Intl. Pvt. Ltd.                    59.895        9.475       50,420       50,420
26    B2.26         03/15/90       Sithara Ltd.                              46.805       12.012       34,793       34,793
27    B2.27         04/12/90       Plast Coat Industries                    152.100      133.984        18.116      18,116
28    B2.28         04/12/90       Nisol Corrugated Cartons Ltd.            230.070       31,555      198,515      198,515
29    B2.29         04/12/90       Tootal Thread LId.                       148,250       47,223      101,027      101,027
30    B2.30         04/12/90       Aitken Spence &Co. Ltd.                 243,600        75,856      167,744      167,744
31    B2.31         05/07/90       SPI Exports (PVt) Ltd.                    33,550        3,119       30,431       30,431
32    B2.32         05/15/90       Keelis Food Products Ltd.               214,000       126,743       87,257       87,257
33    B2.34         08124/90       M/S LasnkaTranstormers Limited           176,648                   176,648      176,648
34    B2.35         10/16/90       MKC Industries                            77,561                    77,561       77,561
35    B2.36         10/16/90       MKC Industries                            24,792                    24,792       24,792
36    B2.37         10/19/90       ABC Containers (Pvt) Ltd                 100,239                   100,239      100,239
37    B2.38         10/24/90       Gunaratne Offset Ltd.                    110,984                   110,984      110,984
38    B2.40         11/05/90       Meeyan Leather Stires                     24,470        1,818       22,662       22,652
39    B2.43         11/13/90       Manchester Yarn & Thread (Pvt) Limite    42,115          482        41,633      41,633
40    B2.45         01/07/91       Chemenex Limited                          27,970        9,253       18,717       18,717
41    B2.46         01/07/91       Raigampura Apparels (Pvt) Ltd.            85,280        9,193       76,087       76,087
42    B2.48         01/07/91       Trico Maritime (PvF) Ltd.                124,310       13,044      111,266      111.266
43    B2.50         02/27/91       Upali Electronics Company                 32,595       12,631       19,964       19,964
44    82.51         02/27/91       Tristar Apparel Exports (Pvt) Ltd.       139,530       41,531       97,999       97,999
45    B2.52         02/27/91       Keells Food Products Ltd.                 57,925        5,072       52,853       52,853
46    B2.53         02/28/91       PugodaTextile Mills (Expan Proj)        275,270        51,522      223,748      223,748
47    B2.54         03/28/91       Richard Pieris & Company                 101,747       25,978       75,769       75,769
48    B2.55         10/23/92       High Level Textiles                      147,021       11,788      135,233      135,233
49    B2.56         05120/92       Ranier Tea Pvt. Ltd.                      56,453        8,324       48,129       48,129
50    B2.57         05/20/92       Dankotuwa Porcelan Pvt. Ltd.             99,217       (12,264)     111,481      111,481
51    B2.58         05/01/92       Tea Tang Ltd.                            135.430       23,416      112,014      112,014
52    B2.59         05/20/92       Express Newspapers                      282,926        99,291      183,635      183,635
53    B2.60         08/01/92       Kings tnt. Garments Pvt. Ltd.            47,400         2,112       45,288       45,288
54    B2.63         06/15/92       ABC Containers (PvI) Lim ted             22,726             0       22,726       22,726
55    B2.64         10/13/92       Standard Trading Pvt Ltd.                100,102         (620)     100.722      100,722
56    B2.66         10/14/92       Kenmartex Pvt. Ltd.                     200,147                    200,147      200,147
57    B2.67         12/04/92       Dilruk Garment Limited                   150,602       12,317      138,285      138,285
Total "B" Sub-projects                                            5.561,813     1,173,273    4,388,540   4,388,53
TOTAL "A+ B" Sub-projects                                        10,921.203    2,060,053     8,861,151   8,861,150



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Annex IV
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS
NDB                                   DFCC                                  TOTAL
No. of Amount Approved  Amount        No. of Amount Approved  Amount         No. of Amount Approved  Amount
Sub-Proj   (Rs. Million)    0 Share   Sub-Proj   (Rs. Million)    % Share   Sub-Proj   (Rs. Million)    % Share
Food, Beverages&Tobacco                  4               63       11.70/o      11              165      21.50/o       15              228      17.5%
Agriculture, Agro Business & Fishery     3                 6       1.1%                                                3                6       0.5%
Textile&Weaving Apparel                 17               123      22.9%        21              271      35.3%         38              394      30.2%
Wood and Paper Products                   1               11       2.0%         4               24       3.1%          5               35       2.7%
Rubber and Leather Products              6               43       8.0%         18              201                    24              244      18.7%
Metal, Non-metalic Minerals/Chemical     9              195      36.2%          5               34       4.4%         14              229      17.50/c
Services Industries                     13               62       11.40/c       1                4       0.50/c       14               65       5.0%
Miscellaneous                            4               36        6.6%         4               69       9.00/0        8              105       8.0%
Total Amount (Rs. Million)              57              538     100.0%         64              768    100.0%        121             1,306    100.00/c
%/ of Total                         47.1%             41.2%                52.9%             58.8%



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Annex V
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS
NDB                                   DFCC                                   Total
No. of    Amount   Amount              No. of    Amount   Amount              No. of    Amount   Amount
Sub-Proj.  (Rs. M)   % share           Sub-Proj.  (Rs. M)   % share           Sub-Proj.  (Rs. M)   % share
Colombo                      25        171      31.8%               39        485      63.2%               64       656       50.2%
Gampaha                      19        276      51.2%               11        131      17.1%               30       407       31.1%
Galle                         3         10       1.8%                4       16.2       2.1%                7         26       2.0%
Badulla                                                              1        9.6       1.3%                1         10       0.7%
Kandy                                                                2       16.5       2.1%                2         17       1.3%
Kalutara                      2          6       1.1%                2       11.5       1.5%                4         18       1.3%
Rathnapura                    1         12       2.3%                                                       1         12       0.9/t
Anuradhapura                   1         9       1.7%                1         13       1.7%
Matara                                                               1         20       2.6%                1         20       1.5%
Kurunenegala &                5         46       8.5%                3         65       8.5%                8        111       8.5%
N'Eliya
Polonnaruwa                    1         9       1.7%
TOTAL                       57        538     100.0%               64        768     100.0%h             121      1,306     100.0%



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Anrne VI
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECTS' PERFORMANCE
NDB                               DFCC
Number   % Share of 57            Number   % Share of 64
Sub-Projects                      Sub-Projects
Total, Sub-projects                        57                                64
Of which:
Profitabe Sub-Projects                     52           91%                  60           94%
Financially Shaky Sub-Projects              5            9%                   4            6%
Had Cost Overruns                          10           18%                   7           11%
Completed at Cost/Below Cost               47           82%                  57           89%
Regular in their Debt Servicing            52           91%                  52           81%
In Arrears                                  5            9%                  12           19/



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                      Annex VIl
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - DFCC 1/
FY      FY      FY       FY
90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94       Covenanted Financial Indicators
Cash Collection Ratio (%)           88.7    93.2    88.9    87.8        Min. Cash Collection: 75%
Return on Average Net Worth (%)     31.4    35.9    31.3    28.3        Min. Return on net worth = 9%
Return on Average Total Assets (%)   4.7     6.1      5.6     6.9       Min. Return on Assets = 2%
Debt / Equity Ratio (times)          5.2     3.7      3.7     3.0       Max. Debt/Equity = 8:1
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)  2.7     2.9      2.3     2.5       Min. Debt Service Coverage = 1.2
Admin. Cost as % of Total Assets (%)    0.7  1.4      1.1     0.5       No Covenants
1/ DFCC's fiscal year is April 1 to March 31.



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                     Annex VilI
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - NDB 1/
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994       Covenanted Financial Indicators
Cash Collection Ratio (%)           91.1    89.3    92.0    90.4    91.5        Min. Cash Collection: 75%
Return on Average Net Worth (%)     11.0    15.3    15.3    27.1    28.7        Min. Return on net worth = 90/o
Return on Average Total Assets (%)   3.5      4.1     3.3     4.9      5.3      Min. Return on Assets = 2%
Debt / Equity Ratio (times)          2.0      2.4     3.8     4.2      3.8      Max. Debt/Equity = 4:1 2/
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)  2.7      3.4     2.7     2.4      3.0      Min. Debt Service Coverage = 1.2
Admin. Cost as % of Total Assets (%)  1.2     1.1     0.8     1.0      1.0      No Covenants
1/ NDB's fiscal year is January 1 to December 31.
2/ In 1993, the covenanted debt/equity ratio was raised to 8:1 for NDB, comparable to that for DFCC.



28
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Annex IX
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - ALLOCATION AND UTILIZATION (IN SDR)
Purpose/                                                       TA                    Amount        Amount       ount utilized
Beneficiary Institution                                     Programs                Allocated      Utilized 1/   % of allocated
per SAR
Strengthen Export Administration/
Export Development Board                                 Studies/Training              289,400         366,000    126.5%
Tariff Reform/Presidential Tariff Commission                                            72,400          34,600
Technology Development/
CISIR                                           Consultancy/Equipment/Training        404,760        349,900     86.40k
SLSI                                                  Equipment/Training              180,850         83,533     46.20/a
NERD Center                                           Equipment/Training              253,200        130,644     51.60%
Technology Development Fund (TDF)                Partial Grants to Sub-borrowers      361,700        656,000    181.4%
Feasibility study for financing ind. tech.                  Study                     144,680         55,400     38.3%
Improving Financial Sector Efficiency/
DFCC                                                 Consultancy/Training            271,300         312,543    115.2%
NDB                                                  Consultancy/Training             271,300        263,700     97.20h
Bank of Ceylon                                             Training                   137,500        338,800    246.4%
Bank of Ceylon/Operational Review                        Consultancy                       0         491,090
People's Bank                                              Training                   137,500         89,400     65.0%
Hatton National Bank                                       Training                   195,300        321,000    164.4%
Commercial Bank of Ceylon                                  Training                    86,800        115,500    133.1 %
Sampath Bank                                               Training                    86,800         71,300     82.1%
Regulatory Framework for Telecommunications/
Telecommunications Authority                         Consultancy/Training           2,660,000       1,671,100    62.8%
Other Institutional Development/lDB; IMU; CBSL                                       --                 51,068
Unallocated 2/                                                                          96,510
TOTAL                                                                               5,650,000       5,401,578    95.6%
1/ Best estimate of actual utilization based on the data from beneficiaries and IMU. Data converted to SDR using the average exchange rate
for the period of project implementation.
2/ Allocated to different institutions on the first come first served basis.



29
ANNEX X
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
People's Bank Operational Review
Under the TA component of IDP-II & III and SMI-III & IV, PB received a
total of US$ 2.4 million for its Operational Review (OR) of all aspects of the
Bank's activities. The work was done by an international consulting firm in
four Phases.
Phase I (June 20, 1988 to August 25, 1988) -- This phase involved
carrying out a diagnostic study to identify shortcomings in critical areas and
providing recommendations for improvement. Specifically, this phase was to
review and improve: (i) the organization structure and operating system; (ii)
the accounting system and the MIS; (iii) credit policy, credit analysis; and
credit supervision; (iv) the status of automation; and (v) Bank's personnel
policy. Funded under credit 1860-CE (SMI-III).
Phase II (May 14, 1990 to 31 August 1990) -- This phase was to implement
the findings and recommendations of Phase I. The consultants provided a
proposal regarding operational structure and role of Senior Management which
is yet to be revised and finalized. The consultants also prepared four
manuals; namely, Operational Manual, Human Resource Management Manual, General
Ledger Manual, and Inter Branch System Manual. Funded under credit 1860-CE.
Phase III (was done at the same time as Phase II) -- Consultants
reviewed the credit portfolio as at December 31, 1990 and prepared a Credit
Policies Manual. Funded under credit 1860-CE.
Phase IV (June 19, 1991 to August 8, 1992) -- The work focused on: (i)
improving procedures for processing international transactions (under
implementation); (ii) improving the procedures for credit processing (yet to
be introduced into branch network); and (iii) proposing an independent and
centralized treasury (implemented by creating a treasury department). Funded
under credit 1692-CE (IDP-II) and 2250-CE (SMI-IV).
Bank Of Ceylon Operational Review
Under the TA components of the four projects, BOC received about US$ 2.6
million for its operational review. The consultancy started in June 1988.
The objectives of TA were to re-design the structures of the Bank in order to
make the bank functions more efficiently in all aspects of its activities.
The consultants worked on six broad programs over a period of four years.
1) Head office and province office organization, design, and
implementation.
2) Branch operations restructuring.
3) Credit policy (manuals, Sick Industries Clinic, etc.).
4) Human resource Development and performance management.
5) Management Information System (MIS).
6) Technology (5 year Tech. plan, purchase of software, improve customer
services in branches, standardization of computer functionality in
branches, etc.).



30
Appendix A
Page 1 of 7
SRI LANKA
Private Finance Development Project (PFDP. Cr. 2284-CE)
Fourth Small and Medium Industries Project (SMI-IV, Cr. 2250-CE)
Third Industrial Development Project (IDP-III. Cr. 1948-CE)
Supervision Mission - March - April 1995
Aide Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Rakesh Nangia, Joon-Bo Shim
and Ms. Shideh Hadian visited Sri Lanka from March 16 to April 4, 1995 to
supervise the above mentioned projects l.  Ms. Sriyani Hulugalle joined the
mission in several meetings during the course of the mission.   Mr. P.
Illangovan joined the mission from March 29 to April 4, 1995 in supervising the
environmental aspects associated with PFDP and SMI-IV.  We appreciate the
hospitality and cooperation extended to the mission by the Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL), the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), the National Development
Bank (NDB), and all the other financial institutions we visited. In addition,
we like to thank the Financial Sector Monitoring Committee (FSMC), the Ministry
of Transport, Environment and Women' s Affai rs (MTEWA) , the Central Environment
Authority (CEA), the Sri Lanka Standards Institution (SLSI) and, the
Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program (MEIP). As is usual in such
cases, this Aide Memoire reflects the mission's findings and is subject to
review and confirmation by IDA management.
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
2.    The credit component of IDP-III was 91 percent committed and because the
deadline for submission of subloan applications was June 30, 1992, no more
subloan applications have been financed under this project since that date.
As requested by the Government, the unutilized amount (about US$ 3.0 million)
was reallocated to the TA component for financing TA programs in line with the
objectives of the Credit.
3.    The TA component under IDP-III was fully utilized as of July 1992.  Of
the transferred funds, about US$ 1.6 million was used for: (i) foreign training
programs for EDB, NDB, DFCC, CBOC, HNB, PB, and BOC; (ii) CISIR's
implementation of its technology planning project (staff training, industrial
promotion and marketing, accreditation of its laboratories) ; and (iii)
providing partial grants to 17 large scale industries to finance their TA
needs, under the Technology Development Fund (TDF) scheme.   The training
programs proved to be useful in capacity building of the PCIs, in particular
in meeting their human resource development needs.  23 of the CISIR staff
successfully completed foreign training programs in their required fields and
procurement of the required equipments for modernization of the laboratories
has been proceeding well.
1 The mission carried out the supervision of the above projects and the
Aide Memoire covered these projects; however, only paragraphs related to the
IDP-III project is presented for this ICR.



31
Appendix A
Page 2 of 7
4.    In August 1993, at the request of IDB, IDA funded a local consultant to
assess the institution's role and organization structure with the objective of
strengthening its role and capabilities in providing quality services to the
SMI sector. The study was completed in mid-1994; the IDB's action plan based
on the study was submitted in early March, 1995. The study proposed improving
the function through procurement of vehicles and testing equipment and staff
training. While, in principle, IDA supports staff training for institutional
development, the Mission believes that procurement of the proposed equipment
is not a long-term solution to strengthen the institution's capacity in
providing quality services to the micro and small industries. The Mission
informed IDB that the proposed training programs should be in line with their
human resource development strategy in order to be beneficial and useful for
the institution and that as IDP-III is expected to close in June 1995, a
limited number of training programs may be financed under this project.  The
ERD agreed to review the IDB's request for training before submitting it to IDA
for approval.
5.    The Mission was informed by the Telecommunication Authority (SLTA) that
procurement and installation of instrumentation equipments were completed
satisfactorily; however, the SLTA is not yet fully operational due to shortage
of technical staff. The SLTA has been trying to recruit 107 new staff for past
two years in order to make a full use of its capacity. only 13 additional
engineers and technical staff were recruited which brings the total staff to
60. SLTA further informed the Mission that due to increasing demand for Radio
Spectrum by public and private sectors, it proposes to modernize the existing
system as early as possible. The new system will optimize the utilization of
Radio Spectrum and reduces processing time for Radio Frequency applications.
SLTA needs to engage services of a consultant for a period of 6 weeks to
prepare the technical specifications and requirements of the system and
associated software. The Mission agreed to provide the funding (estimated at
US$ 40,000) under IDP-III provided that the consultancy will be completed
before the project closing, June 30, 1995.
6.    IDP-III will close on June 30, 1995.  Preparation of the Implementation
Completion Reporting (ICR) under the new IDA guidelines was discussed in detail
with the ERD and the two participating DFIs, DFCC and NDB. ERD agreed to
prepare Part-II (the borrower's evaluation of the project) of the ICR within
five months after the project closing date. DFCC and NDB agreed to provide
their inputs for this part as required by the ERD. A questionnaire was also
sent out to the PCIs and all the TA beneficiaries for their inputs regarding
their respective programs.
7.    The 1992 and 1993 audits of the IDP-III project accounts were submitted
to IDA early this year. The project accounts for 1994 has been finalized and
will be submitted to the Auditors General by first week of April 1995.



32
Appendix A
Page 3 of 7
March 5, 1993
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PFDP)
THE GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA'S STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY
Mr. D. Joseph Wood, Vice President
South Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wood:
RE: Statement of Financial Sector Policy
As you are aware, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) is working closely
with the International Development Association (IDA) to develop and implement
a comprehensive program of financial sector reforms. We have had considerable
success in addressing issues such as rationalization of monetary policy,
liberalization of interest rates, introduction of prudential regulations for
banks, reduction of directed credit, reduction of public sector ownership and
removal of public sector control over development finance institutions (DFIs),
strengthening of debt recovery legislation and adoption of international
accounting and auditing standards. Since 1989 the Government's reform efforts
addressed issues  in four areas:   economic  stabilization,  public  sector
rationalization, poverty alleviation, and private sector development. In its
efforts to continue a sustainable growth policy based on export, the GOSL
intends to continue to pursue: (i) tight macroeconomic management especially
fiscal management through better control of recurrent expenditure; (ii)
rationalization of the public sector and the poverty alleviation program; and
(iii) the provision of an environment which would further develop the private
sector. The GOSL would also continue its mobilization effort based on improved
tax administration and tax reforms that broaden the tax base and increase the
efficiency of the system.
In my letter of April 11, 1991 to you, I outlined in more detail the
steps our Government intended to take to: (i) rationalize monetary policy;
(ii) refine reserve requirements; (iii) strengthen bank supervision and
regulation; (iv) restructure and strengthen the two state commercial banks
(People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon); (v) rationalize and improve the operations
of the National Savings Bank (NSB); (vi) reduce the GOSL's shares in the
National Development Bank (NDB) and also reduce the shares of the State
Commercial Banks in the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC);
(vii) rationalize the legislative, regulatory and institutional structure of
the state insurance corporations; (viii) strengthen the accounting regulatory
framework and capital market; and (ix) monitor the impact of debt recovery
legislation enacted in 1990.  I am glad to report to you that to date we have
achieved many of the reforms indicated in that letter. For example, we have
issued guidelines to the banking sector to bring their operational policies and
procedures in line with international standards, particularly those relating
to capital adequacy ratios, in terms of the guidelines as recommended by the
Bank of International Settlements (Basle Accord). These guidelines will be
enforced within six months of the recapitalization of the State Commercial
Banks. We have further strengthened the bank supervision and regulation, and



33
Appendix A
Page 4 of 7
although some actions await implementation, these would be completed soon, as
indicated below. Both DFIs, NDB and DFCC have been successfully privatized.
A set of reforms aimed at strengthening the debt recovery system has been
implemented.   Further reforms in this area are underway.   The required
legislation has been recently passed and special courts to deal exclusively
with the debts of the financial institutions are in the process of being
established.   Finally, Sri Lanka now has a functioning Credit Information
Bureau (CIBSL) which would help the financial sector in their appraisal of
their prospective clients.
Although we take pride in what we have already achieved, we realize that
a lot more remains to be done.  In our efforts to provide a framework within
which private sector investment can be promoted, we realize that the financial
sector is still not equal to the task and needs considerable further
improvement. We are aware that an efficient and functioning financial sector
is a prerequisite for a private sector-led growth. In this regard, we are
focusing our efforts on improving the efficiency of the financial system as a
whole by introducing a more competitive environment, which would assist us in
the mobilization of savings, reduction of financial intermediation costs,
efficient allocation of credit and enable us to make credit available at
acceptable rates of interest.
While the steps already taken are significant in establishing a financial
system more conducive to industrial development, we realize that the task ahead
will require considerable effort in order to steer the present financial system
in the right direction.   We, therefore, propose to continue our present
financial reform efforts and implement the rest of the financial sector program
as described. In addition, in the context of the proposed Private Finance
Development Project, we propose to take action which would further: (i) improve
the efficiency and depth of the financial sector; (ii) enable the private
sector to expeditiously respond to the changing economic environment; (iii)
assist in domestic resource mobilization for long-term investments; and (iv)
help strengthen institutions regulating the financial sector. To assist us in
this task, we have established the Financial Sector Reform Committee to oversee
the restructuring and commercialization of the SCBs and the NSB. In addition,
the Committee will examine and advise on further steps to be taken to
strengthen and deepen the market for medium- and
long-term capital, to reform the insurance industry and to improve enforcement
of accounting and auditing standards, and related financial sector issues.
Restructuring of the State Commercial Banks  (SCBs) .  We are in the
restructuring phase of the SCBs. With IDA's assistance, the 1991 accounts were
audited by international auditors based on CBSL's prudential regulations and
international accounting standards.   The auditors also analyzed the SCBs'
accounting systems and controls and prepared plans for financial restructuring
of the banks. We intend to implement a series of reforms to enforce commercial
discipline and improve the profitability of the two state banks. Amendments
to the legislation under which the SCBs function are being made.   These
amendments would enable the SCBs to function as autonomous commercial
organizations and would level the playing field between the SCBs and private
commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka. The Board of Directors for each of
the SCBs will be strengthened by appointing a number of new members who will
be persons with relevant professional qualifications and/or extensive business
experience. We intend to appoint three new members to the Board of Bank of
Ceylon (total strength of the Board is seven members) and three new members on
the Board of People's Bank (total strength of the Board is ten members) . We
are also in the process of establishing a mechanism for dealing with the larger
bad loans of the SCBs. Steps are being taken to control the administrative
costs of the SCBs and to improve credit discipline in their lending. We expect
that the SCBs will be able to reduce their intermediation costs and achieve



34
Appendix A
Page 5 of 7
profitability levels comparable to those of the private banks operating in Sri
Lanka within two years of their recapitalization. The profit targets set for
the SCBs exclude interest income from the recapitalization bonds, and the
corresponding amount of bonds, utilized to upgrade the capital base of the SCBs
from zero to the internationally acceptable standards of capital adequacy (8
percent) . We believe that the successful restructuring of the SCBs will ensure
that these banks develop a commercial focus and convert themselves into
independent commercially viable and profitable institutions. Additionally, we
wish to re-confirm our commitment to continue with our policy of refraining
from any interference in the commercial operations of private sector banks.
The Role of Development Finance Institutions  (DFIs).   In order to
strengthen the resource base of DFIs and reduce the public sector role in the
financial sector, the GOSL allowed the DFIs to sell their shares to foreign
technical partners, enter into joint ventures with private domestic banks,
borrow in the domestic markets, and issue long-term debentures.   It also
reduced the SCEs' shares in DFCC to the level stipulated in the Banking Act.
We experienced some delay in the privatization of NDB, caused by issues
relating to share valuation and the proportion of shares to be placed through
the Stock Exchange. The initial sale of 61 percent of the ordinary shares of
NDB has now been completed, and the number of public sector directors on NDB's
Board has been reduced to three out of ten members. The new Chairman will be
selected by the Board as provided for in the amended NDB act. The Government
intends to further reduce its direct and indirect share holding in the NDB to
less than 20% in accordance with the terms of the offer of sale of NDB shares.
At that time, the number of board members appointed by the government or
government-controlled institutions will be reduced to two out of ten.
Increase the Maturity Structure of Government Market BorrowincTs. Over
the last two years most of the GOSL's borrowings made through the Treasury
bills at market rates were in the form of short-term instruments (with
maturities of one year or less) . The limited maturity structure of the market
instruments used by the government along with some regulatory constraints
hampered the development of an active secondary market in Treasury bills, and
this in turn hindered the development of a market for debt securities from the
private sector. The GOSL has now begun a program to lengthen the maturity
structure of public debt instruments and to remove the regulatory constraints
which had impeded the development of a secondary market in Treasury
instruments. Legislative provisions have already been made to permit issue of
Treasury bills with maturities longer than one year, and Rupee Securities
Ordinance is being amended to allow issuance of Rupee Securities (Treasury debt
instruments with interest coupon) at market determined rates. A number of
primary dealers were appointed to deal with the purchase and distribution of
Treasury bills in July 1992. The CBSL is in the process of implementing a
series of regulatory changes to promote the development of a secondary market
in public debt instruments.   We expect that these reforms will not only
decrease the economic costs of public sector borrowings but will also directly
help in the development of a private sector bond markets by establishing a
yield curve for use by the private sector as benchmark to price its debt, and
help to develop a secondary market infrastructure for the promotion of a liquid
market for debt instruments. We expect to achieve, in the medium-term, more
stable macroeconomic conditions and to effect a reduction in inflation rates,
as already envisaged in the Policy Framework Paper. These reforms will, we
believe, create the necessary conditions for the development of deep and
efficient financial and capital markets.
The current system of withholding tax on treasury securities is designed
for efficient collection of taxes without due regard to its effect on the
development of a secondary market in these securities and the consequences on
overall borrowing costs. The GOSL intends to review the present system of



35
Appendix A
Page 6 of 7
collecting withholding taxes on financial instruments with a view to making the
necessary amendments to remove its adverse effects on development of secondary
trading in financial instruments.
The Employee Provident and Employees Trust Fund (EPF and ETF) and
National Savings Bank (NSB) .. EPF and ETF are two major funds that represent
a huge and rapidly growing pool of long-term resources which could contribute
to the financing of productive investments in our economic development. In the
past, savings in these institutions have primarily been invested in short- to
medium-term public debt instruments issued at managed rates, creating high
financial costs to the private sector by denying it access to term savings in
the country. The GOSL will review the role that EPF and ETF will play in the
liberalized financial environment and will modernize, and institutionally
strengthen the EPF and ETF, consistent with their redefined roles. At the same
time, we are implementing a program to gradually increase the amount of
contractual term savings from these institutions to be made available for the
use of private sector investments. As part of this program, EPF and ETF will
invest at least 5 percent of their inflow in non-government securities in 1993,
rising to 10 percent by June 1995. NSB has already started the process of
diversifying its investments and we expect that by the end of 1993 at least 10
percent of its investments will be in non-government securities. Thereafter,
the proportions are to be increased in light of experience gained by GOSL and
IDA from the initial phase. The GOSL intends to allow complete investment
autonomy for these institutions so that the proportion of funds invested by
these institutions in government securities are not any higher than what is
consistent with the institutions' independent investment goals to fulfil their
designated objectives.
Insurance Companies. Like the pension funds, public sector insurance
companies mobilize large pools of long-term resources of which insignificant
amounts are providing term finance for productive investment. The GOSL would
address the underlying problems by: (i) introducing a new Insurance Act which
would improve and strengthen the regulatory framework under which the insurance
industry  functions;  (ii)   allowing  insurance  companies  to pursue  more
sophisticated portfolio management techniques; and (iii) reducing market
segmentation and increasing competition.   Recently,  the GOSL removed the
special privileges of the state-owned insurance corporations by converting them
into companies operating under the Companies Act and proposes to commence
privatizing the two state insurance companies by December 1993.
Bank Supervision and Regulation.   The Government, through the CBSL,
strengthened the banking supervision and regulation by:  (i) enforcing the
minimum capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent of risk adjusted assets; (ii)
designing, issuing and implementing a more rigorous loan classification system
and provision requirements; and (iii) focusing inspection on the accuracy and
classification information provided by the banks. However, we need to further
strengthen the laws and regulations as well as CBSL supervision capacity and
maximize the use of our resources. CBSL will review the current organizational
structure of its three supervision departments with a view to rationalize and
coordinate the current structure and upgrade the technical capability of its
staff.
Accounting Regulations and Financial Disclosures. As a result of changes
in their regulatory framework implemented at the beginning of 1992, banks are
required by CBSL to comply with a prescribed format which uses international
accounting standards for reporting and disclosure. The Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) has adopted all of the international
accounting and auditing standards issued to date. The GOSL intends to give
these standards legal force, and extend the coverage of these standards, which
currently only apply to listed companies, to larger unlisted



36
Appendix A
Page 7 of 7
companies and to improve its enforcement of these standards by setting up an
Accounting Standards Board. The board will be set up as a statutory body and
staffed with technical experts. It will be responsible for investigating cases
of non-compliance with accounting standards and to recommend appropriate action
by various bodies that have specific jurisdiction over individual cases, e.g.,
SEC,  ICASL,  IRD,  etc.   We are also in the process of investigating the
feasibility of introducing compulsory malpractice insurance for auditors to
encourage market pressures for compliance with auditing standards and to
provide assets in case of losses suffered due to negligence on the part of the
auditors.
Debt Recovery Measures.  In 1990, the GOSL changed the legal framework
of debt recovery in order to remove the weaknesses identified at that time.
In the same year, the Credit Information Bureau was created to assist in
improvement of credit decisions by the financial intermediaries. Since then
the government has strengthened the operational capacity of the Bureau and has
enacted wide ranging legislative changes to improve debt recovery laws. We are
also in the process of establishing special courts exclusively for debt
recovery to reduce the backlog of such cases and to expedite settlement of
future claims.
Introduction of Variable Interest Rates. In support of the objectives of
the project, we would initiate action to on-lend the proceeds of this loan at
variable rates only. In order to facilitate the on-lending by PCIs at variable
rates, we have instructed the CBSL to publish, on a weekly basis, the Average
Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR) that could be used by the PCIs as a reference
rate. Since lending and on-lending on a variable rate are not common in the
Sri Lankan banking system, banks will need technical assistance to enable them
to monitor and control their interest rates risks and to develop appropriate
instruments for hedging themselves against the risk that they do not wish to
assume. The GOSL intends to provide this assistance to the PCIs from the
'proceeds of this Credit.
We believe that the measures outlined above will help develop a strong
financial sector responsive to the needs of our industrial development. The
measures taken by the GOSL over the past two years have already had a positive
impact on the financial and industrial sector and the response can be noted in
the increased financing needs of the sector. In this regard the GOSL requests
the rapid processing of the proposed project of US$60 million.
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Yours sincerely,
/s/
R. Paskaralingam
Secretary to the Treasury



37
Appendix B
Page 1 of 5
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-III)
(CREDIT 1948 CE)
Evaluation Report By The Government
The Government of Sri Lanka entered into a Development Credit Agreement with
the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank on
September 19, 1988 to obtain a credit of SDR 31.7 million (US$ 43.8 million
equivalent) for the Third Industrial Development Project (IDP III) . The
credit was offered on Standard IDA terms and conditions with 40 years
maturity. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995 as originally scheduled.
Prior to the negotiation of IDP III the Government received three credits
for small and medium industries (SMI) development in 1979, 1981 and 1987 and
two credits for medium and large scale industrial development in 1983 and
1986. A total of US$ 64 million was channelled to the small and medium
industrial sector and US$ 45 million for the medium and large scale
industries under these five credit lines. The credit for the Third
Industrial Development Project was negotiated to complement previous term
financing to medium and large scale industries which channeled through the
banking system.
The previous credit lines for SMI and medium and large scale industrial
lending also supported Government efforts in implementing comprehensive
trade and industrial policy reform program covering tariff reform,
industrial and export incentives and improving efficiency of public sector
manufacturing enterprises. There was a firm commitment from the Government
to continue implementation of policy reform program initiated with the
previous IDP and SMI projects and the IMF SAF, which infact supported the
translation of the Industrial Policy Statement (IPS) of the Government into
an operational reality.
1.    The objective and Design of the Project
The two major components of the project were: (a) a credit component of US$
36.0 for onlending to medium and large scale industries; and (b) a technical
assistance component of US$7.8 million. The TA component of the project
focused on; (1) the strengthening of export administration; (2) the
implementation of tariff reform; (3) the Improvement of the Infrastructure
and the financing arrangements for industrial technology; (4) the
improvement of capital market operation and (5) the upgrading of the
operational efficiency of DFIs and participating Credit Institutions.
On the request of the Government IDA included funds for the provision of
technical assistance for commercialization of telecommunications under the
project.
In parallel with the IDA Credit, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) extended a
Credit of US$ 40.5 million for term financing and technical assistance.



38
Appendix B
Page 2 of 5
More specific objectives of the project are to;
(a)   assist GOSL implement the next agreed phase of tariff reform;
(b)   assist GOSL to prepare the regulatory framework to establish an
independent commercial telecommunications authority;
(c) ensure a stable and more competitive flow of term finance
to private industry by widening the participation of credit institutions to
include commercial banks and thereby increasing the range of services offered
by them;
(d) continue institution building programs of DFIS;
(e) assist In developing a more efficient capital market with
the objective of increasing the sources of equity finance for industry;
(f)   Implement GOSL's IPS objectives to strengthen industrial technology
development by assisting in the formulation of a detailed technology
development program;
(g) assist GOSL to prepare and implement an Export Development Plan for 1988-
92, and;
(h)   provide training  for GOSL/PCI  staff to make environmental  impact
assessment guidelines for industrial operation.
The design of the IDP III was similar to the two previous projects. However
the project widened the participation of credit institutions to include private
commercial banks with the objective of increasing the range of services offered
by them. This was in line with the Government policy to get private Commercial
Banks involved in the industrialization process. There was no change in the
interest rate policies applicable for the credit.
The objectives of the project was in line with the Government strategy in
providing necessary term financing requirements of large and medium industries
and policy reforms as envisaged in the Industrial Policy Statement.
2.    Project Implementation - Credit Component
The implementation of the Credit Component of the project was highly
satisfactory. The credit component was 91' committed to 126 medium and large
scale industries generating employment opportunities for about 7.500.   The
success in achieving the objectives of the credit component is mainly due to the
successful operation of the two DFIs.   Their  institutional  strength and
management capability have been the main factors contributed for the effective
sub-project lending and supervision. The participation of Commercial Banks in
the project was not up to the expectation.  They were late to enter into the
credit operation and only 5 sub loans were offered by the 3 Commercial Banks that
joined in the credit operations. Evidently the two DFIs were in an advantageous
position due to their involvement in the previous IDP operations.   Further,
medium and large scale industries might have relied more on the sub-project
lending from DFIs.
3.    Project Implementation - Technical Assistance Component
The achievements of objectives with regard to the implementation of the technical
assistance component were mixed.



39
Appendix B
Page 3 of 5
The institutional building program of DFIs was implemented highly satisfactorily.
The two DFIs, were able to utilize technical assistance efficiently and
effectively.    The  institutional  capacity built up with the previous  IDP
operations were further strengthened.   Highly satisfactory operation of the
credit component is in fact a reflection of the enhanced management capabilities
of the two DFIs.
The results of technical assistance aimed at strengthening industrial technology
development were mixed. Of the three beneficiaries under this component Ceylon
Institute for Scientific and Industrial Research (CISIR) was successful in
implementing the agreed technical assistance program. CISIR was able to improve
its organizational structure substantially and move towards a more commercially
oriented research institution. The training programs provided under the project
helped CISIR in capacity building.
The TA provided to Sri Lanka Standard Institution (SLSI) was mainly confined to
the improvement in management information system by procurement of computer
equipment.   SLSI failed to receive Bank approval for the establishment of a
twinning arrangement with a suitable national standard body. The attempts by
SLSI to establish such relationships with the national standard bodies of the
region had also failed due to poor response. Thus, the benefit received by the
SLSI under the project was limited to upgrading of management information system.
The National Engineering Research and Development (NERD) Center mainly utilized
technical assistance funds for procurement of equipment and staff training, which
helped NERDC to improve its research and development capabilities. Particularly,
NERDC was able to strengthen the Energy Management Department with the help of
IDP III TA.
The project also provided funds for the establishment of a technology development
fund (TDF), operated through NDB, to assist the private industries to improve
technology development on cost sharing basis. The amount allocated for TDF was
fully utilized and additional funds were made available by IDA.  The private
industries benefitted from the TDF in the improvement of technology development.
The technical assistance provided to the tariff reform brought in favorable
results.   The project provided funds for a study tour by a team of senior
Government officials appointed by the Cabinet which recommended the introduction
of pre-shipment inspection. Due to practical difficulties the Government was not
able to implement the proposal within the envisaged time frame. The Government
has now taken a decision to implement pre-shipment inspection in 1996.   The
project provided necessary technical support for the Presidential Tariff
Commission (PTC) to finalize its Report submitted in 1991, which recommended the
introduction of a four-band tariff structure in 1992.
The   technical   assistance   provided   under   the   commercialization   of
telecommunications was utilized to provide necessary support services, equipment
and expertise to the office of the Director General of Telecommunications which
is  the  regulatory  authority.    There  were  some  early  set  backs  in  the
operationalization of the office of the Director General of Telecommunications
due to difficulties experienced in the filling of skilled staff positions. This
situation was later corrected and satisfactory progress has been achieved.
At the project appraisal, technical assistance was also identified for capital
market development and training in environmental impact assessment. However, IDP
III funds were not utilized for these purposes.   These issues were more
comprehensively addressed under SMI IV and PFDP.
On the request of the Government the IDA agreed to reallocate savings from the
credit component to technical assistance component. Majority of these funds were
utilized for the staff training of beneficiaries which complemented their Human



40
Appendix B
Page 4 of 5
Resources Development requirements.
The Government recognized the suggestion made by the IDA to review staff training
requirements of the beneficiaries in terms of the human resources development
objectives of the respective institutions. The beneficiaries were requested to
provide annual human resources development plans when additional funds available
from the unutilized credit component were allocated for staff training.
The Government recognized the need for closer scrutinity of TA sub-projects.
This is particularly important at the design stage of the TA sub projects, so
that such activities would be more specific and targeted. The terms of reference
for TA activities should be clearly defined to enable to develop realistic time
table for implementation of the recommendations.    Further,  involvement of
beneficiary counterpart staff is necessary in order to ensure smooth
implementation and substainability of the recommendations.
The project has also provided funds for the continuation of operational review
of the Bank of Ceylon supported under IDP II and SMI III. The recommendation of
the consultancies funded under the IDP III were implemented by the BOC.
4.    Project Co-ordination
The co-ordination of IDP II was done by the Industries Division of the National
Planning Department. At the negotiation of the IDP III the Government agreed to
the proposal made by the IDA to establish institutional arrangements for the co-
ordination of IDP III. An Industrial Development Project Monitoring Unit (IDP-
MU) was established in March 1989 at the ERD for this purpose.  The Unit was
functioned under the Head of IDP-MU and the co-ordination of activities under
IDP-II was also entrusted to the Unit.
The functions of the IDP-MU were constrained in the early stage of the project
due to staff shortages. Subsequent to the change in Cabinet portfolios, the Unit
was moved to the National Planning department in 1990. The Unit was with the
National Planning Department until mid 1992, when it was reverted to the ERD on
the request of IDA. Since the beginning of 1993 the post of the Head of the IDP-
MU was not held by a permanent officer.  Due to staff constraints in the ERD it
was not possible to assign a full time officer to hold the post of the Head of
the Unit. further there have been changes in the officer holding the position
of the Project Officer/Accountant at the Unit.
Frequent changes in the location and the key staff members of the IDP-MU somewhat
inhibited achievement of desired level of project co-ordination. Nevertheless
the Unit managed to maintain satisfactory level of project co-ordination and
reporting requirements. Project co-ordination has also been facilitated by the
functioning of SMI Policy Co-ordination Committee.   The committee which was
revived under SMI IV provided a forum for the beneficiaries and the relevant
officials to discuss issues related to the operation of the project. Technical
assistance proposals were reviewed and cleared by the committee for funding under
the project.
5.    IDA Performance
IDA's co-operation and prompt responsiveness to the Government request for the
IDP III made it possible to continue uninterrupted supply of term leading to the
medium and large scale industries. The technical assistance component of the
project was designed to support part of the activities connected with the
Government policy reform program. The IDA has shown flexibility in allocation
of funds under the technical assistance component.   The IDA agreed to the
utilization of IDP III funds for the continuation of operational review of BOC,



41
Appendix B
Page 5 of 5
supported under IDP II and SMI III. It has also agreed to reallocate saving from
the credit component to the technical assistance component which were later used
for the training of staff of the beneficiaries.
The evaluation of the impact of the IDP III technical assistance in the
implementation of policy reform program is difficult because a number of IDA and
ADB financial intermediary credits with similar policy reform objectives were in
operation in parallel with IDP III.
6.    Government Performance
The credit component of the project was implemented highly satisfactorily. Well
developed institutional capability of the two DFIs was the major contributing
factor in achieving these satisfactory results. As expected by the Government
there was a high demand for term financing from the medium and large scale
industries. There has been a firm commitment from the Government to implement
necessary policy reforms in trade and industry. The IDP III Project contributed
to the Government efforts in the area of industry and trade policy reforms
through its technical assistance component.
7.    Concluding Remarks
The IDP III provided a slice of the industrial sector term financing requirements
of Sri Lanka during the period of 1989/94 and the project was successfully
implemented. The technical assistance component of the project supported the
implementation of Government policy reform program in industry and trade.
IDA continued to support term financing requirements of DFIs and Commercial Banks
through SMI IV and Private Finance Development Project (PFDP) negotiated after
IDP III.   The PFDP was fully committed by mid 1995 and the SMI IV will be
committed by March 1996.   Given that DFIs do not have sufficient access to
primary term savings they continue to depend on funds provided through
multilateral agencies to sustain the momentum of their lending operations. The
Government is conscious of this situation and necessary steps are being taken to
address this issue and evolve a longterm sustainable solution.
It will take some time to find a longterm solution to improve the accessibility
of DFIs to the primary term savings.   Therefore, continued support from the
multilateral agencies would be necessary to maintain uninterrupted supply of term
financing directed at a vital sector of the economy in the short run.
November 15, 1995






IBRD17278
'I. '   b-  i -MAY 1S
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JAFFNA
._           r          -         -       -        National Capital
/-------- District Boundaries
_ M- 1    IaULLAMVU                           -        Provincial Boundaries
NORTHERN;'-
VAVWNYAr        .
MANNAR          )
l                     2'          /
j_.-St ~7..-, 
\,V.                           \TRINCOUALEE
!                                            /
I,,*          ANURADHAPURA
-n NORTH CENTRAL
i              ~~lei   I
PUTTALAMj                                        POLONNARUWA
/-             '.         ,-    7
NORTH                     y-   J                               !
BATnCALOA
WESTERN                        .
KURUNEGALA          J.                             EASTERN
I~~~,                   )   MA,TAL_--E
\ CENTRAL    .                         ,-
GAMPAHA                 ~~KANDY            JI
GAMPAHA  j.l                 \               .*s -:-          /               / zAMPARAJ
TKEGALLA                                BADULLA
-  -APi                  '*~~~'               U/VA
x     A.            '  NUWARA                      ,                        1
EUYA \ /    _  u >*j    MONERAGALA
KALUTARA             RATNAP 
I N D I A                   GALLE                  J         -_\ HkBANTOTA
SOUTHERN
MATARA     1          o                                 __      _  __
-~, LMS                            Is                                    e   ir  o     X fr0     o
.. ~       ~~~~        -, --  - -   .    .0.e S,O.









I, .-.       T  .  1.;
E; -PLA.G  I   t; L             :,
r      i, l .        T   -1



