Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1948 CE
              (Third Industrial Development Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 19, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September  19,  1988,  between  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS:  (A)  the  Borrower   has   issued  a  Statement  of
Industrial Strategy dated  March  1987 (the Statement), describing
objectives and policies designed for the development and expansion
of the industrial sector,  and declaring the Borrower's commitment
to the implementation of said policies;
     (B)  the Borrower has requested  the Association to assist in
the financing of  measures  to  be  undertaken  pursuant to, or in
furtherance  of,  the  provisions  of  the  Statement  through the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
     (C)  from the  Asian  Development  Bank  (ADB),  the Borrower
intends to contract a loan (the  ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to SDR 28,962,000 to assist in  financing the project on terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in  an  agreement  (the  ADB Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADB; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Participating  Credit  Institution"  means  any  credit
institution  established  or  operating  under  the  laws  of  the
Borrower, which has entered into  a subsidiary loan agreement with
the Borrower pursuant to the  provisions of Part II(4) of Schedule
3 to this Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  a  Participating Credit
Institution pursuant to the provisions of Part II(4) of Schedule 3
to this Agreement, as the same  may  be amended from time to time,
and such  terms  includes  all  schedules  to  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (c)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Credit Institution out of the proceeds of the Credit
to an Investment Enterprise for  an Investment Project, and "free-
limit Sub-loan" means a  Sub-loan,  as so defined, which qualifies
as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant  to the provisions of Part II(1)
(b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
     (d)  "Investment  Enterprise"  means   an  enterprise,  owned
privately, owned by the  state  jointly with private shareholders,
or  owned  by  the  state   and  operating  under  private  sector
management contract, to  which  a Participating Credit Institution
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (e)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project  in  such  sectors  as  may  be  agreed  upon  between the
Association and the Borrower, to  be  carried out by an Investment
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (f)  "AWPR" means the Average  Weighted  Prime Rate, an index
of interest rate charged  by  the  commercial banks to their prime
customers; such index is compiled  and published on a weekly basis
by the  Central  Bank  of  Sri  Lanka.  For  the  purposes of this
Agreement, the initial AWPR  to  be  applied  will  be the AWPR in
force on the Effective Date,  and the Borrower and the Association
may mutually agree to substitute another index or indicator;
     (g)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower;
     (i)  "BMR" means  balancing,  modernizing  and rehabilitation
activities related to an Investment Project; and
     (j)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
Page  3
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to  an  exchange  of  letters  dated  April  16, 1986 and
June 18, 1986 between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to thirty-one  million  seven  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,700,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amount  paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a Participating
Credit Institution on account of withdrawals made by an Investment
Enterprise under a Sub-loan to  meet  the reasonable cost of goods
and works required for the  Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account  is  requested; and (ii)
expenditures made (or if  the  Association  shall  so agree, to be
made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods and services
required for Parts B and C  of  the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section  2.O3.  The  Closing  Date  shall  be  June  30, 1995
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
Page  4
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each  March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15,  1998  and  ending  March  15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be  carried  out  with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity  with  appropriate administrative, financial and
industrial practices, and shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Page  5
     Section 3.03. (a)  The  Borrower  undertakes that, unless the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  Sub-loans  will  be  made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Investment Project  in  such  manner  as  to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association  and  the  Borrower; (ii) comply with
its  obligations  under  this  Agreement;  and  (iii)  achieve the
purposes of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and  of  each  Investment  Project  (including  its  cost  and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records  referred  to  in  Section 4.01 of
               this Agreement, its  accounts  and financial state-
               ments  (statements  of   income  and  expenses  and
               related statements)  and  records  and accounts for
               the Special Account for each fiscal year audited in
               accordance   with    sound    auditing   principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as  soon as available
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               said  financial  statements  for  such  year  as so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning the said records, accounts and financial
               statements and the audit thereof as the Association
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance  with  Section 4.01 of this
               Agreement,  records  and  accounts  reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account  was  made,  all records (contracts,
               orders,  invoices,   bills,   receipts   and  other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
Page  6
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable
that the objectives and policies  included  in the Statement, or a
significant part thereof, will be implemented.
     (b)  A change shall  have  been  made  in any Subsidiary Loan
Agreement without the Association's consent.
     (c)  The ADB Agreement shall  have failed to become effective
by December 31, 1988, or  such  later  date as the Association may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds  for the Project are available
to  the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and conditions
consistent  with  the  obligations  of  the  Borrower  under  this
Agreement.
    (d)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds  of  the  ADB  Loan  shall  have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in part,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of the ADB
                    Agreement, or
               (B)  The ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (c)  of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur  and  shall continue for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  any  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  any events specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  administrative and  legal  measures  satisfactory to the
Page  7
Association have been taken to improve the recovery of debts; and
     (b)  Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been entered into by the
Borrower with at least two Participating Credit Institutions.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the  Association,  namely,  that  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have  been  duly  authorized  or  ratified  by, and are
legally binding upon  the  Borrower  and  the Participating Credit
Institutions  referred  to   in   Section   6.01  hereinabove,  in
accordance with their respective terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of  the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall  cease  and  determine on the date on
which the Development Credit  Agreement  shall terminate or on the
date twenty years  after  the  date  of  this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower, is  designated  as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Democratic Socialist Republic of
            Sri Lanka
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                SECMINFIN                        FINMIN 21409
                Colombo                          FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
                             SRI LANKA
Page  8
                          By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans under            26,050,000       100% of foreign
     Part A of the                               expenditures,
     Project for                                 100% of local
     goods and works                             expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 70% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(2)  Expenditures                5,100,000
     under Parts B
     and C of the
     Project:
     (a)  Goods                                  100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 70% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (b)  Consultants'                           100%
          services and
          training
(3)  Refunding of                  550,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                                suant to Sec-
     paration Advance                            tion 2.02 (c) of
                                                 this Agreement
                                __________
Page  9
         TOTAL
                                31,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a  Sub-loan  unless  the Sub-loan has been
made in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and  on  the terms and
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Schedule  3  to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals,  in an
aggregate amount not  exceeding  the  equivalent of SDR 2,900,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of  the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower's
program of industrial development through the provision of credit,
and the improvement of support systems.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Industrial Finance
     Financing by Participating  Credit Institutions of Investment
Projects through Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises.
Part B:   Support Systems
     Institutional   strengthening   and   development   of  staff
capabilities in:
     (1)  export administration;
     (2)  tariff reform implementation;
     (3)  industrial technology development;
     (4)  capital market development; and
     (5)  operations  of   Capital   Development   and  Investment
          Corporation, National Development Bank of Sri Lanka, and
          Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon.
Part C:   Telecommunications
     Preparatory activities for  the  commercialization and future
restructuring of the telecommunication system.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
Page  10
                            SCHEDULE 3
                      Terms and Conditions of
                   and Procedures for Sub-loans
I.   Terms and Conditions
     A.   Terms for onlending by the Borrower to
          Participating Credit Institutions
          1.  Interest rate        :     AWPR  less  a  spread  of
                                         4% per annum
          2.  Amortization period  :     18 years, inclusive of
                                         3 years of grace
          3.  Foreign exchange risk:     to be borne by the
                                         Borrower
     B.   Terms of Sub-loans
          1.  Interest rate        :     to be  determined  by the
                                         respective  Participating
                                         Credit Institution
          2.  Amortization period  :     maximum   of   15  years,
                                         inclusive of  3  years of
                                         grace
          3.  Maximum Sub-loan size:     Rs 90,000,000  (except as
                                         the    Association    may
                                         otherwise agree)
          4.  Sub-loan utilization
              (a)  by Investment    :    for new investment, or
                   Enterprises           BMR
                   owned privately
              (b)  by Investment    :    for BMR
                   Enterprises not
                   owned privately
          5.  Proceeds of the  Credit  shall  not  be utilized for
              sub-loans eligible under small and medium industries
              financing schemes.
     C.   Adjustment of Terms
     The mechanisms for establishing  the interest rate and spread
for paragraph A.1 above, shall  be  reviewed by each January 1 and
July 1 and,  if  necessary,  adjusted,  based on procedures agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association.
     The actual rate charged  to the Participating Credit Institu-
tions by the Borrower shall be  amended each January 1 and July 1.
The initial interest  rates  shall  be  the  AWPR  in force on the
Effective Date less the  spread  indicated in paragraph A.1 above.
Subsequently the interest rate shall  be the average AWPR prevail-
ing over the previous six  month  period less the spread indicated
in paragraph A.1  above,  as  adjusted  in  the manner referred to
above. In the event  a  Participating Credit Institution charges a
variable interest  rate  on  Sub-loans,  the  Borrower  shall also
charge such a  Participating  Credit  Institution a relending rate
for a corresponding portion of  the  Credit on a variable interest
rate  basis  to  be   agreed   upon   by  the  Borrower  and  such
Participating Credit Institution.
Page  11
II.  Procedures
(1)  No expenditures for goods or works required for an Investment
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association and  such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than  120  days  prior  to  the date on which the
Association shall have  received  the  application and information
required under paragraph (2)  (a)  of  this Schedule in respect of
such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Association has authorized
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  and such expenditures shall
have been made not  earlier  than  120  days  prior to the date on
which  the  Association  shall   have  received  the  request  and
information required  under  Part  II  paragraph  (2)  (b) of this
Schedule in respect of such  free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes
of this Agreement, a  free-limit  Sub-loan  shall be a Sub-loan as
determined  by  the  Association  for  each  Participating  Credit
Institution in terms  of  the  amount  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit for an Investment Project.
(2)  (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association for  approval, the Borrower shall furnish
or cause the Participating Credit  Institutions to furnish, to the
Association  an   application,   in   form   satisfactory  to  the
Association, together with:  (i)  a  description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii)  the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan, including the  schedule  of amortization of the Sub-
loan; and (iii) such  other  information  as the Association shall
reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  in  respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan  shall  contain:  (i)   a   summary  description  of  the
Investment Enterprise  and  the  Investment  Project,  including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and  (ii)  the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before June 30, 1992.
(3)  Sub-loans and Investments shall be  made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain or  cause  the Participating Credit Institu-
tions to obtain, by  written  contract  with the Investment Enter-
prise or by  other  appropriate  legal  means,  rights adequate to
protect  the  interests  of  the  Association  and  the  Borrower,
including, the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of  Schedule  5  to  this  Agreement, and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Association if the  Association  shall  so request, such goods
and the sites,  works,  plants  and  construction  included in the
Investment  Project,  the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant
records and documents;
Page  12
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit  to  the  place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be  made  payable in a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such  information  as  the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration,  operations  and  financial  condition  of the
Investment Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of  the  proceeds  of  the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract  with  the  Borrower  or  with  the  Participating Credit
Institutions.
(4)  The Borrower shall  enter  into  a  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with  each  Participating  Credit  Institution  providing  for its
participation in the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association including those outlined in this Schedule.
(5)  Each  Participating  Credit  Institution  shall  comply  with
eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Association.
(6)  (a)  After commencing  to  participate  in  the Project, each
Participating Credit  Institution  shall  continue  to satisfy the
performance entry criteria  which  shall be monitored semiannually
and  modified  if  appropriate  by  mutual  agreement  between the
Borrower and the Association. If any Participating Credit Institu-
tion  fails  to   satisfy   the   above  specified  criteria,  the
Association reserves the right  to suspend Sub-loan authorizations
under the Project until  the  Participating Credit Institution has
taken specific steps to  address  its  problems in a manner satis-
factory to the Association.
     (b)  To ensure an  even  utilization  of  the  Credit and ADB
Loan,  the  Borrower   shall   apply   for  commitments  from  the
Association  and  ADB,  to  the  extent  practicable,  on  a basis
proportionate to the relative  contribution of the Association and
ADB to the financing of Part A of the Project.
(7)  The Borrower shall ensure that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement
include  provisions   for   the   relevant   Participating  Credit
Institution:
     (a)  to retain responsibilities and staff satisfactory to the
Association to appraise  Investment  Projects and extend Sub-loans
under Part A of the Project;
     (b)  to apply  procedures  and  criteria  satisfactory to the
Association in the appraisals of Investment Projects;
     (c)  to    complete    environmental    impact    assessments
satisfactory  to  the   Association   for  Sub-loans  of  $500,000
equivalent or more; and
     (d)  to include calculations  of  the  domestic resource cost
ratio, and internal  economic  and  financial  rates of return for
each  Sub-loan  of  $250,000  equivalent  or  more,  and  for each
Investment Project with a  nominal  tariff protection level of 50%
or more.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  13
                      Implementation Program
1.   (a)  The Borrower  and  the  Association  shall  from time to
time, at  the  request  of  either  party,  exchange  views on the
progress achieved  in  carrying  out  the  objectives and policies
included in the Statement  and  the actions specified hereunder in
Part 2 of this Schedule.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the objectives and policies
included in the Statement, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.   The Borrower shall carry  out,  in  accordance with a program
and timetable satisfactory to the Association:
     (a)  export development measures;
     (b)  tariff reforms;
     (c)  industrial technology development;
     (d)  capital market development;
     (e)  strengthening of National Development  Bank of Sri Lanka
          and  Development  Finance   Corporation   of  Sri  Lanka
          operations; and
     (f)  debt recovery improvements.
3.   No commitment shall be entered  into  to pay amounts to or on
the order  of  the  Borrower  in  respect  of  expenditures  to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit after the total amount
of  such  commitments  shall   have   reached  the  equivalent  of
SDR 15,000,000, unless the  Association  shall be satisfied, after
an exchange of views as described in Part 1 of this Schedule based
on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower  in  the implementation of objectives and
policies included  in  the  Statement;  and  (b)  that the actions
described in Part 2 of this Schedule have been taken.
4.   If, after the exchange of  views  described in Part 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall have  given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved  progress   and   taken   actions   satisfactory  to  the
Association, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  14
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods, and  for  works,  estimated to cost less
than equivalent of $1,000,000 each may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited  international  bidding  procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of  bids invited from a list of
at least three qualified  suppliers  eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with the procedures  set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.   Contracts for goods, and  for  works,  estimated to cost less
than  the  equivalent  of  $500,000  each  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  or  cause  to  be employed consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment  shall  be   satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Page  15
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to  SDR  1,590,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
Page  16
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in  the  Special  Account  as  of the date of
such notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not  so  eligible  or   justified.   No  further  deposit  by  the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
