Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19730
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3451 - UNI)
January 27, 2000
Rural Development 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit=: Naira
US$1.0 = 9.5 Naira (at Appraisal, 1991)
US$1.0 = 22.0 Naira (1992 - 1994)
US$1.0 = 82.0 Naira (at Mid-Term Review, 1995)
US$1.0 = 80.0 Naira (1996)
US$1.0 = 85.0 Naira (1997 - 1998)
US$1 .0 = 85.0 Naira (at Completion, 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       -      Agricultural Development Project
ADPEC    -       Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
APMEU    -       Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
ATSFCC   -       Agricultural Technology Support Facility Coordinating Committee
ATSNFFCC-        Agricultural Technology Support and National Fadama Facility
Coordinating Committee
CAYS      -      Cropped Area and Yields Survey
FACU      -      Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
EIA       -      Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR       -      Economic Rate of Retum
FADPEC   -       Federal Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
FCT       -      Federal Capital Territory
FGN       -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FMANR   -        Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMWRRD  -        Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development (before
May 1999)
FMWR    -        Federal Ministry of Water Resources
FUA       -      Fadama Users Association
ICR       -      Implementation Completion Report
IFESH     -      International Fund for Education and Self Help
LGC       -      Local Government Council
MTR       -      Mid-Term Review
MTRM      -      Monthly Technology Review Meeting
NATSP    -       National Agricultural Technology Support Project
NFDP       -     National Fadama Development Project
NFFCC    -       National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee
NGO        -     Non-Governmental Organization
PFT       -      Project Facilitation Training
PME       -      Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
RID       -      Rural Institutions Development
SAR       -      Staff Appraisal Report
UAES      -      Unified Agricultural Extension Services
WUA       -      Water Users Association
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader: Sidi Jammeh



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA                    FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3451-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary.i-vil
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment ..................................                        I
A. Introduction.
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .
C. Achievement of Objectives.                                                                   3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                         9
E. Project Sustainability.                                                                      9
F. Bank Performance .10
G.  Borrower Performance ..................................................  I I
H. Summary of Findings: Key Lessons Leamed, Future Operations .11
PART II: Statistical Tables .................................................................       13
Table 1: Evaluation Summary .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual                         15
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A:  Project Costs .............................................................   19
Table 8B:  Project Financing .............................................................     19
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................  20
Table 9A:  Economic costs and Benefits for Seven Core States and Watari IS ......    21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .......................................................  22
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...........................  23
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................... 23
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .......................................................  24
Appendices
Appendix A:  Mission's Aide Memoire ...................................................  25
Appendix B:  Operational Plans ..............................................................  45
Appendix C:  Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report ...  68
Map
IBRD No. 23158
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[LOAN 3451 - UNI]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Fadama
Development Project (NFDP), for which Loan 3451 - UNI, in the amount of US$67.5
million equivalent, was approved on March 26, 1992 and made effective on February 23,
1993.
The Loan was closed on March 31, 1999, after three extensions, and was fully
disbursed on September 20, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Samuel Eremie (AFMNG), with quality assurance
support from Sidi Jammeh (Task Team Leader, AFTR2). It was reviewed by Joseph
Baah-Dwomoh, Sector Manager, AFTR2; Chandra Ranade, WBI; and Yaw Ansu,
Country Director, Country Department 12. The Borrower's comments on the draft report
were incorporated into this final version and are included in Appendix C.
Preparation of this ICR began during the joint Bank/Borrower final supervision and
completion mission, October 26 to December 17, 1998. It is based on material in the
project file, field visits to all the project units, discussions with government officials and
project beneficiaries and an update of project achievements by the Borrower in May
1999. The Borrower's staff from the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF), Federal
Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development (FMWRRD, now renamed the
Federal Ministry of Water Resources), Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (FMANR, now renamed the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development), Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU), and
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) participated in the completion mission.
The views of the state and federal officials at the mission wrap-up meeting have been
reflected in the aide memoire (Appendix A).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 3451 - UNI]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   The National Fadama Development Project, approved on March 26, 1992 for a loan
of US$67.5 million, was to build on the achievements of some of the northern
agricultural development projects (ADPs) in developing small-scale irrigation through
the extraction of shallow groundwater with low-cost petrol-driven pumps. The project,
by making agricultural production less dependent on the erratic rainfall regimes in the
area, was expected to raise farmers' incomes and contribute to food security and poverty
alleviation. Small-scale irrigation was one of the actions identified by the Bank's 1989
sector report for achieving an agricultural growth rate of four percent per annum in
Nigeria compared with the population growth rate of over three percent. The loan closed
on March 31, 1999, two and a half years after the original closing date of September 30,
1996 (para. 1 of Part I).
Project Objectives
2.   The project objectives were to assist the Borrower to: (i) construct about 50,000
tubewells in the fadama lands for small-scale irrigation; (ii) simplify drilling technology
for the tubewells; (iii) construct fadama infrastructure; (iv) organize farmers for irrigation
management, cost recovery and to have better access to credit, marketing and other
services; (v) carry out aquifer studies; (vi) monitor and upgrade irrigation technologies;
and (vii) complete a full environmental assessment of the environmental and social
impact of future fadama development.
3.   The project components were: (a) Shallow Tubewells, to extract and distribute
water for irrigation; (b) installation of Fadama Infrastructure-- to construct 810 km. of
roads, construct 126 storage and marketing facilities, and complete the spillway and
distribution canals of the Watari Irrigation Scheme in Kano State to irrigate 1,200 ha;
(c) Institutional Development-- to organize the farmers into Fadama Users Associations
(FUAs); (d) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME)-- to monitor and evaluate
programs at the federal and state levels, including the conduct of a full environmental
impact assessment; and (e) National Fadama Facility (NFF)-- to assist fadama
development in non-core project states that met the eligibility criteria (paras. 2-4 of
Part I).
4.   The objectives were realistic and consistent with the agricultural development
objectives of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) to increase self-sufficiency in
basic food commodities, increase production for exports and local industries, and prevent



- ii-
environmental degradation. They were also consistent with the recommendation of the
1989 Bank sector strategy report to raise the agricultural growth rate through small-scale
irrgation.
5.   Covenants.  The main covenants stipulated in the Loan Agreement were:
(i) establishment of thie National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee (NFFCC);
(ii) operation of the NFF in accordance with agreed provisions; (iii) provision of adequate
counterpart funds; (iv) submission to the Bank for review, the bye-laws of the FUAs; and
(v) conduct of a mid-term review (MTR) of project progress. The covenants were
complied with, except that related to counterpart funding, where funds for some of the
project units were either inadequate or released late (para. 5 of Part I, Table 10 of Part II).
Implementation Experience and Results
6.   Achievement of Objectives. The project substantially achieved its objectives in
the construction of t:ubewells and fadama infrastructure, simplification of drilling
technology, monitoring and upgrading of irrigation technology, and the completion of the
environmental assessment. It also established the viability of a full cost recovery fadama
development program in Nigeria. The project, however, did not fully achieve the
objectives in farmer organization and conduct of aquifer studies in the non-core states.
7.  In tubewell construction, the project fully achieved the appraisal target but the
achievement in pump distribution was less satisfactory. Although 54,177 pumps were
procured as against the target of 50,000 pumps, only 61 percent of the target had been
distributed to the farmers as at the end of the project, either because some of the farmers
did not pay the initial deposit or because the wells had not been constructed. The
distribution of the rem-aining pumps is expected to be completed during the current dry
season which ends in April 2000. Because of inadequate synchronization by the ADPs of
the well drilling exercise with pump procurement, some states received the pumps well
before the wells were drilled and vice versa in other states. It is estimated that only 60
percent of the target area of 50,000 ha. was fully developed using project facilities but
cumulatively about 1:53,992 ha. was cropped during the life of the project with the
facilities (para. 6 of Part I).
8.   The simplification of well drilling technology and the involvement of farmers in
well construction was one of the major achievements of the project. Engineers of the
Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) improved on the jetting process for
washbore construction while trials by some ADPs led to the reduction of the size of the
screen and pipe for the well without lowering performance. The ADPs also trained
farmers on the washboring technique and these farmers constructed washbores for others
(para. 7 of Part I).
9.   The fadama infrastructure helped to increase the area under fadama, to improve
access to fadama farms, and enhance the handling of fadama produce. The road
construction target was increased to 825 km, with the conversion of some of the
provision for fadama roads to the lower-cost access roads and 87 percent of the revised
target was achieved. About 94 percent of the facilities for storage and marketing were



- iii -
constructed, while the spillway and main canals of the Watari Irrigation Scheme were
constructed to bring 678 ha. under irrigation. Many ADPs, unfortunately, did not make
satisfactory arrangements with the local government councils (LGCs) and the FUAs for
the maintenance of the roads and storage facilities (paras. 8-9 of Part I).
10.  In farmer organization, about 9,239 FUAs, 138 percent of the target set by the
ADPs, were formed to increase the capacity of the farmers to manage fadama
development. Some of the FUAs were assisted in obtaining credit from commercial
banks. The planned cadastral surveys to help establish farmers' title to land, in order to
improve access to credit, however, were suspended after the MTR because the concept of
land titling was found to be not applicable to most of the fadama land. While the FUAs
have user rights, they can dispose of the land only with the approval of the local leader.
The performance in fadama loans recovery from the FUAs was initially poor in some of
the core states, but this improved at the close of the loan to an average of 71 percent.
11.  The processing and marketing of fadama produce are still major problems in some
states but the current attempt by some state governments to establish processing plants
without private sector participation is unlikely to solve the problem. At the end of the
project, one of the fundamental goals of farmer organization was yet to be achieved, that
is, the FUAs procuring their wells and pumps directly from suppliers. There is,
however, sufficient experience from the implementation of the project as well as an
agreement with the implementing agencies that this would be the direction of future
projects. In the short termn, the ADPs are expected to provide demand-driven extension
services, build the capacity of the FUAs to manage their investments, monitor the
performance of the suppliers and link the FUAs to commercial lending agencies (paras.
10-13 of Part I).
12.  The conduct of aquifer studies to determine the priority areas for fadama
development was achieved in all the core states as a condition for participation in the
project. A few of the non-core states, however, participated without concluding the
studies, leading to the construction of wells on a trial and error basis which resulted in a
high number of abortive wells in some cases (para. 14 of Part I).
13.  The objectives of monitoring fadama development and upgrading irrigation
technology were substantially achieved. Soil and water samples were analyzed and
action plans for the farms were drawn up from the result in some states. A network of
150 special observation wells, 50 hydrological stations and 30 meteorological stations has
been established for monitoring fadama development. The ADPs' PME departments
conducted baseline studies and some impact studies while the Agricultural Projects
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) regularly prepared progress reports. FACU
coordinated project implementation, managed the NFFCC Secretariat, undertook most of
the specified studies, and participated regularly, with APMEU, in Bank supervision
missions.  Irrigation technologies developed through the National Agricultural
Technology Support Project (NATSP), which was also implemented by the ADPs,
include improved soil and water management, introduction of new crops such as Irish
potato, garlic, industrial sugarcane and fruit trees to diversify fadama production, and
pest and disease control measures such as for basal rot of onion which could reduce yield



- iv -
by up to 80 percent. In the absence of field officers, the Federal Ministry of Water
Resources and Rural Development (FMWRRD, now Federal Ministry of Water
Resources) can more effectively regulate water use by various actors by liaising with the
state ministries of water resources and the ADPs (paras. 15-17 of Part I).
14. The environmental assessment of fadama development was completed but was not
fully processed to enable modifications to be made to the project, such as pumping from
surface water, as desired by some farmers. Studies were also done on pastoralist-farmer
conflicts in the fadama areas. Although conflict resolution committees were set up in all
the core states, many are not fully functional because of funding constraints. Overall, the
level of development under the project did not pose a serious threat to the environment
and it is expected that the environmental monitoring measures already in place would
facilitate the monitoring of future development (paras. 18-19 of Part I).
15.  Project Costs, Financing and Timetable. Actual project cost as at April 30, 1999,
was US$104.2 million, 98 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$105.9 million. The
foreign exchange cost of US$57.0 million was met from the US$66.4 million disbursed
by the Bank. The state governments contributed US$10.5 million, more than double the
target of US$4.5 million, while the Federal Government contributed US$4.2 million
against the target of US$4.7 million. Farmers' contribution amounted to US$23.1 million
compared with the target of US$29.2 million. The project was implemented in 6.5 years
instead of the four years estimated at appraisal (paras. 23-23 of Part I and Tables 8A and
8B of Part II).
16.  Project Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. Most of the
objectives were substantially achieved and the impact studies conducted by the Borrower
showed that in some states returns per hectare increased by 65 percent for vegetable
production, 334 percent for wheat production and 497 percent for rice paddy. In
addition, there were substantial increases in technology adoption: in Kano, from 6
percent for garlic to 62 percent for improved tomato varieties; and crop yield increased
by 29 percent for peppers and 36 percent for wheat. Price inflation, notwithstanding,
returns per hectare increased substantially as well. In Jigawa, for instance, returns per
hectare increased by 65 percent for vegetable production (from N29,956 to N49,5 10) and
by 334 percent for wheat (from N7,456 to N32,375). For rice paddy in Niger, the returns
per hectare increased by 497 percent, from N7,906 to N47,200. About 90 percent of the
farmers in Gombe acknowledged an increase in their incomes and respectively, 5, 10, 13
and 20 percent of the farmers bought pick-up vans, bicycles, motorcycles and new carts,
while 30 percent enrolled their children in schools and 17 percent changed the roof of
their houses from thatch to zinc. There were reports of improved family nutrition, and
the acquisition of more wives by the farmers. The re-estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) of 40 percent exceeded the appraisal estimate of 24 percent (paras. 24-25 of Part I
and Tables 9 and 9A of Part II).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.  Implementation was positively affected by: (i) farmers' acceptance of the fadama
technology, considered suitable for their small-scale operation; (ii) the group approach



- v -
employed by the project which encouraged mutual support, facilitated service delivery
and increased farmer control of irrigation management; (iii) the profitability of fadama
farming; and government support for the project.
18.  The major factors, subject to government control, that adversely affected
implementation were: (a) untimely release of counterpart funds; (b) irregular meetings of
the Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (ADPEC), and the Federal
Agricultural Development Projects Executive Committee (FADPEC) leading to delays in
approval of project proposals; and (c) scarcity of fuel for the irrigation pumps. The
factors subject to the control of the implementing agencies include: (d) poor procurement
planning and contract management, including inadequate synchronization of the contracts
for pump procurement and well construction; and (e) inadequate involvement of farmers,
LGCs and non-governmental organizations in project implementation. The major factors
outside the control of the government were: (f) delays in contract implementation by
some suppliers and contractors; (g) pastoralist-farmer and inter-community conflicts;
(h) floods, especially in 1998, that affected production; (i) issuance by the Bank of
procurement no-objections to facility states without informing the Facility Secretariat;
and (j) initial disagreement between the Bank and the implementing agencies over pump
specifications. Bank supervision of procurement operations was also deficient (paras. 26-
27 of Part I).
Project Sustainability
19.  The sustainability of the project is likely.  The high financial returns for the
participating farmers has raised their desire to invest further in fadama development and
attracted other farmers to the project. Being a full cost recovery program, the dependence
of the project on dwindling public budgetary resources will be minimized in the future.
The federal and state governments have made strong requests for the continuation of the
project, and part of the over N329 million in the escrow account of the project will be
applied to expanding fadama development. Adequate arrangements are also in place for
monitoring future development and the likely environmental effects. To enhance the
sustainability of the project activities, the following measures may be considered: (a)
greater attention should be paid to the downstream activities of storage, processing and
marketing; (b) FUAs should procure their pumps and wells directly from suppliers; and
(c) the FMWRRD should liaise with relevant state agencies to regulate the use of water
resources (paras. 28-29 of Part I).
20. Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation was rated satisfactory by
the Borrower. The Bank demonstrated considerable flexibility during implementation by
allowing the modification of the targets at the MTR, three loan extensions as well as four
formal loan amendments. With regards to supervision, however, Bank performance was
only marginally satisfactory due to deficiencies in the supervision of procurement
operations. Specifically, the project was selected by the Bank for an ex-post procurement
audit, towards the end of the project. The audit report identified a number of flaws in the
procurement operations, resulting in uneconomic procurement, lack of transparency,
reduced competition and exceeding of the aggregate limits prescribed for procurement



- vi -
under the shopping procedure. The flaws include: (a) lack of appropriate procurement
planning, including contract packaging and procurement scheduling; (b) splitting of
procurement contracts, with the objective of avoiding ICB procedures; (c) lack of
transparency in the choice of firms selected under shopping procedures; (d) weak record
keeping and procurernent filing system by the implementing agencies; (e) inadequate
contract management by the implementing agencies, including the non-enforcement of
contractual conditions for defaulting contractors; and (f) inadequate procurement
supervision by Bank staff. including the entertainment of procurement cases below the
prior thresholds, granting of approvals by Resident Mission staff where they are not
authorized to do so, and weak end use audit of goods and works. Due to the weight of this
supervision deficiency, overall Bank performance may be rated as marginally satisfactory
(para. 30 of Part I).
21.  As regards Borrower performance, the federal and state governments demonstrated
a strong support for the project because of its clear impact in the northern parts of the
country dominated by erratic rainfall regimes. The government made continuous request
for a second phase of the project, even when there was a moratorium on foreign loans.
The project also received implementation assistance from several federal agencies.
Borrower performance in implementation was, however, marginally satisfactory, due to:
untimely release of counterpart funds; delays in approval of annual project proposals and
budgets, resulting in implementation delays; and the problem of poor procurement
planning and contract management by the implementing agencies which resulted in the
lack of transparency and uneconomic procurement reported in the procurement audit
report. The Government has drawn up an action plan to address the identified lapses in
the procurement process and to avoid a repeat in future projects. Given the seriousness of
this event, and in spite of the satisfactory project outcome and the Borrower's
performance in project preparation and compliance with covenants (para. 31 of Part I)
however, the Borrower's overall performance may be rated as marginally satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
22. The key finding of implementation experience is that a full cost recovery program
for fadama development is feasible and such development can be accelerated through
greater farmer control of irrigation management.
23.  The key lessons are:
* strong beneficiary involvement in the design and implementation of projects increases
the sense of ownership among them, including responsibility for maintenance of
infrastructural facilities;
* farmers want greater flexibility in project design to allow them select appropriate
components, such as having only the pump where surface water is available, and not
in combination with other equipment that may not be needed.



- vii -
* greater involvement of the private sector, LGCs and non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) in project implementation improves the chances of sustainability;
* key eligibility criteria for participating units need to be complied with before they are
allowed into the project to ensure commitment;
* in future fadama operations, the FUAs will be responsible for the procurement of
their wells and pumps directly from suppliers, while the ADPs will focus more on the
provision of technical and extension advice, further training of the FUAs, credit
liaison and monitoring support;
* inadequate attention to the procurement system, especially during project supervision,
is prejudicial to satisfactory project outcome; and
* future project designs need to consider more comprehensively the downstream
linkages, such as storage, processing and marketing.
24. Future Operations. The operational plans prepared by the implementing agencies
(Appendix B) build on the lessons of the project and aim to: improve the capacity of the
FUAs to manage fadama development, including the direct procurement of their wells
and pumps from suppliers; continuously monitor fadama development, including
environmental effects; and increase the involvement of the private sector, LGCs, NGOs
and the farmers in project planning and implementation. Following government request
for a second phase fadama project, the Bank has started preparation work with the
Borrower for a project, which is expected to be launched early in the year 2001, and is
aimed at poverty alleviation through sustainable increases in agricultural production,
diversification into commercially-oriented complementary activities, increased value
added of production and incremental employment, effective economic interest groups,
sustainable financial and technical services delivery to beneficiaries, and sound policy
and institutional framework for expansion of private fadama development (paras. 32-34
of Part I). In this regard, it is important to note that Bank approval of this proposed
second phase fadama development program is contingent upon satisfactory progress in
the implementation of the Government's Action Plan to safeguard against procurement
irregularities in the future.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 3451 - UNI]
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Introduction
1.   The acceleration of private small-scale irrigation was identified by the 1989 World
Bank report, Nigeria - Strategy for Agricultural Growth, as one of the key actions
required to achieve an agricultural growth rate of four percent per annum over the
medium term to cope with the annual population growth of over three percent. The
National Fadamal Development Project (NFDP) was to build on the achievements of
some of the northern agricultural development projects (ADPs) in developing small-scale
irrigation using low-cost petrol-driven pumps to extract shallow groundwater. By
making the farmers less dependent on the erratic rainfall regimes in parts of the country,
the project was expected to increase the farmers' production and contribute to food
security and poverty alleviation. The project was approved for a loan of US$67.5 million
on March 26, 1992 and became effective on February 23, 1993. The loan closed on
March 31,1999, two and a half years after the original closing date of September 30,
1996.
B.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
2.   The objectives of the NFDP as stated in the Loan Agreement were to assist in:
(i)  the construction of about 50,000 tubewells in the fadama lands for small-
scale irrigation;
(ii) simplifying drilling technology for shallow tubewells;
(iii) the construction of fadama infrastructure;
(iv) the organization of farmers for irrigation management, cost recovery and
better access to credit, marketing and other services;
(v) the carrying out of aquifer studies;
(vi) the monitoring and upgrading of irrigation technologies; and
(vii) the completion of a full environmental assessment of future fadama
development.
1 Fadama is a local word for low-lying flood plains usually with easily accessible shallow groundwater.



- 2 -
3.   The objectives, though stated mainly as outputs, were realistic and consistent with
the recommendations of the 1989 Bank strategy report as well as the 1988 Agricultural
Policy objectives o-f the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), namely: (a) self-
sufficiency in basic food commodities; (b) increased agricultural production for export
and local industries; and (c) prevention of environmental degradation. The project also
tried to address sorae of the bottlenecks identified in earlier attempts at small-scale
irrigation development, especially, the low level of involvement of the private sector and
farmer organizations and the poor cost recovery performance of the ADPs, which
jeopardized the sustainability of fadama development. The project objectives were
maintained during the mid-term review (MTR) in 1995, but some of the targets were
modified in line with implementation experience. By 1997, the project involved seven
core states, 30 facility states (the Federal Capital Territory inclusive) and three federal
agencies.
4.   The main components of the project were:
(i)  shallow tubewells, to develop 18,000 wells by washboring and 24,000 wells
by drilling in the core states, and an additional 4,500 wells by washboring
and 3,500 wells by drilling in other eligible states;
(ii) fadama infrastructure, to construct by contract 405 km. of access roads and
135 km. of fadama roads, rehabilitate 270 km. of existing tracks, install 135
culverts, construct 78 shelters, 45 drying and storage sheds and three
evaporative cooling facilities for vegetables, and complete the spillway and
distribution canals for the Watari Irrigation Scheme in Kano State;
(iii) institutional development, to organize fadama users associations (FUAs) to
participate in the project, including the activities related to drilling,
construction and maintenance of fadama infrastructure, full cost recovery
and monitoring of available water resources. Cadastral surveys were to be
done to lead to the recording of land titles and a fadama administration
program established;
(iv) planning, monitoring and evaluation (PME), to plan, monitor and evaluate
programs at the federal and state levels, monitor the shallow aquifer levels,
conduct a full environmental impact assessment (EIA) for future fadama
development, conduct baseline surveys and annual surveys to measure
cropping intensities, yields and production, input use and fadama farm
income, prepare annual reports on fadama development, develop systems for
monitoring, planning, allocating and regulating Nigeria's water resources at
the national level, and strengthen staff capacity for data collection and
analysis; and
(v)  National Fadama Facility (NFF), to assist fadama development in states
meeting the eligibility criteria, including the provision of equipment for the
National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee (NFFCC).



- 3 -
5.   Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Apart from the general covenants
relating to work plans, budgets, procurement and audits, the Loan Agreement required:
(i) the Borrower to establish the NFFCC; (ii) operation of the NFF in accordance with
agreed provisions; (iii) provision of adequate counterpart funds; (iv) submission by the
ADPs to the Bank for review the FUA bye-laws; and (v) the Borrower to do a MTR of
project progress. All the covenants were complied with except the one related to
counterpart funding where overall releases were adequate but late in some instances. The
status of the covenants is summarized in Table 10.
C.  Achievement of Objectives
6.   Tubewell construction.  The objective of constructing 50,000 wells was fully
achieved.  A total of 49,997 wells was constructed in spite of the problems of:
(a) reluctance of farmers to pay a deposit for a well before seeing the pump; (b) the desire
of some farmers to have pumps only for surface water pumping; (c) delays in award of
construction contracts by some ADPs as well as abandonment of work by some
contractors in preference for better paying contracts by other agencies; and
(d) inconclusive or unsatisfactory aquifer studies in a few facility states which led to the
construction of wells on a trial- and error-basis.  About 67 percent of the wells
constructed were washbores compared with an appraisal estimate of 45 percent. The
cheaper washbores were easier to construct than the tubewells and the farmers preferred
them  wherever the aquifer characteristics permitted.  The performance in pump
distribution was, however, less satisfactory. Although 108 percent of the target of 50,000
pumps was procured, only 61 percent of this target had been distributed to farmers by the
end of the project, either because some farmers had not paid the initial deposit or because
the wells had not been constructed. The distribution of the remaining pumps is expected
to be completed during the current dry season which ends in April 2000. There were also
delays in the supply of the pumps by some contractors, and pump procurement was
poorly synchronized with well construction, resulting in some ADPs having more wells
or pumps. The result is that only about 60 percent of the target area of 50,000 ha was
fully developed using project facilities. Cumulatively, however, about 153,992 ha was
cropped during the life of the project, with an average cropping intensity of two per
fadama season.
7.  Simplification of drilling technology. The project was to simplify the washboring
technique, train village artisans on the technique and allow them to execute small
contracts for the FUAs. This objective was substantially achieved. The ADPs conducted
a number of trials on drilling techniques that resulted in cost saving, such as the
replacement of the 100 mnm screen and pipe with a 75 mm screen and 63 mm pipe
without a negative effect on well performance. Engineers of the Federal Agricultural
Coordinating Unit (FACU) also improved on the jetting process for washbores. The
ADPs trained a number of farmers on the washboring technique and some of these
constructed washbores for other farmers.
8.  Fadama infrastructure construction.   The objective of constructing  and
rehabilitating roads, storage facilities and the Watari Irrigation Scheme was substantially
achieved. The target of access road construction was revised from 810 km to 825 km



- 4 -
through the conversion of some of the fadama road provision to the lower cost access
roads.  About 87 percent of the revised target was achieved and there is some
improvement in the access to fadama farms, markets and community social activity
points.  Most ADl's, however, did not make satisfactory arrangements for the
maintenance of the roads by the local government councils (LGCs) and the FUAs. In the
core states, about 94 percent of the target for construction of storage and marketing
facilities was achieved, leading to some improvement in the handling of fadama produce
by the FUAs. As in the case of the roads, many ADPs did not make satisfactory
arrangements for the transfer of ownership of the facilities to the FUAs and some of the
FUAs complained about the inappropriate size and location of the facilities, suggesting
that there was little consultation with the FUAs before the facilities were constructed.
9.   A new spillway was constructed in place of the damaged one at the Watari Scheme
and about 678 ha out of a target of 1,200 ha has been fully developed for irrigated
production by 38 water users associations (WUAs). Two concerns have emerged about
this component. The high investment cost (about US$11,780 per ha compared with
US$500 for the fada.rna approach) implies that the farmers have to obtain substantially
higher yields and product values to justify long term economic returns. Also, although
the WUAs are currently participating in the maintenance of the field canals, the ADP has
to improve their capacity to maintain the main canals as well. The Kano State
Government is considiering an increase in water charges to offset part of the maintenance
cost.
10.  Farmer organization. There was a very high achievement in the formation of
FUAs, but the ADPs still have a lot to do to increase the capacity of the FUAs to manage
irrigation development with minimal direct intervention by the public sector. About
9,239 FUAs were formed, 138 percent of the target of 6,693 set by the project units,
partly because of the enthusiasm of the farmers to participate in the project. However,
only 68 percent of the FUAs formed were formally registered to enhance accountability
as well as access to credit. Some of the ADPs assisted the FUAs to obtain production
credit from commercial banks but the amounts are still very small compared to the
requirements. In particular, when inorganic fertilizer became readily available with the
liberalization of fertilizer distribution, farmers complained of poor access to credit
facilities to purchase the required amounts. Apex FUA organizations have been formed
in a few states, which could increase the capacity of the FUAs to mobilize savings for a
more sustainable credlit scheme. The planned cadastral surveys to help establish farmers'
title to land, in order to improve access to commercial bank loans, were suspended after
the MTR because the concept of land titling was found to be not applicable to most of the
fadama land which is covered by community use rights. The FUAs have user rights to
fadama land but can clispose of the land only with the approval of the local leader.
11. The performance in the recovery of the fadama loan package from the FUAs was
initially poor in the core states, but improved at the end of the project to an average of 71
percent. In a few of the facility states, deposits were not collected from the FUAs before
wells were constructed because of the weak Rural Institutions Department (RID) which
handled the functions of the FUA Division in these ADPs. For future fadama projects,
the RID would need to further build the capacity of the FUAs in such areas as group



- 5 -
management, book keeping, banking operations, savings mobilization, linkage with credit
agencies and loan repayment. The escrow account, into which the recovery of the
fadama loan package from the FUAs is paid, had about N329 million as of March 31,
1999. This amount could provide about 7,300 sets of tubewells/pumps at an average
price of N45,000. The effect of inflation can be seen from the fact that at appraisal, the
same tubewell/pump package was estimated to cost N9,000.
12. The processing and marketing of fadama produce is still a major problem in many
states. While a few FUAs have organized themselves to collectively market their
produce in distant markets, many others are still dependent on the middlemen who come
to the largely inaccessible fadama areas to buy the produce at very low prices. Some
state governments are proposing to establish processing facilities as a solution to the
problem - brown sugar mill in Jigawa in collaboration with the National Cereals Research
Institute and onion drying factory in Kebbi. In both cases, there is little planned
involvement of the private sector, and the envisaged scale of operation is beyond the
capacity of the FUAs to take over responsibility within the medium term. Storage,
processing and marketing by farmer groups would need to be addressed more
comprehensively in future projects.
13.  At the end of the project, one of the fundamental goals of farmer organization was
yet to be achieved - the FUAs procuring their wells and pumps directly from the
suppliers.  There is, however, an agreement with the implementing agencies that
sufficient experience has been gained to move future projects in this direction. Private
drillers have successfully drilled wells for some farmers outside the project arrangements
and other farmers have purchased the pumps of their choice from dealers when the ADPs
had delayed the supply of pumps. The ADPs have also gained experience on the
reputation of different well drilling contractors and pump suppliers and can advise the
FUAs accordingly. The role of the ADPs in the short term should be to provide demand-
driven extension services, build the capacity of the FUAs to manage their investments,
monitor the performance of the contractors and FUAs and link the FUAs with
commercial lending agencies.
14.  Conduct of aquifer studies. This objective was partially achieved. As a condition
for participation in the project, the core states conducted aquifer studies to determine the
priority areas for development. Although the conduct of the studies was also a key
eligibility criterion for the facility states, a few of them (Adamawa, Taraba, Akwa Ibom,
Cross River, Enugu and Rivers) had inconclusive studies or only draft or unsatisfactory
reports. Consequently, the wells in some of these states were constructed largely on a
trial and error basis, resulting in a high number of abortive wells in a few cases. In
Taraba, for example, half of the 18 tubewells drilled were abortive.
15.  Monitoring and upgrading of irrigation technology. The objectives of monitoring
fadama development and supporting research and extension in order to improve farm
productivity were substantially achieved. Soil and water samples from the farms were
collected and analyzed and the associated action plans were drawn up in some states at
the technology review meetings. The Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Rural
Development (FMWRRD, now Federal Ministry of Water Resources) has developed a



-6 -
monitoring system for fadama development by establishing a network of 150 special
observation wells, 50 hydrological stations and 30 meteorological stations in the core
states. A computer data base has also been established for surface and groundwater
resources. In the absence of field officers, the Ministry can increase its capacity to
effectively regulate the use of the water resources by the various actors by liaising with
the state ministries of water resources and the ADPs.
16. The PME departments of the ADPs conducted the fadama baseline surveys, the
cropped area and yield survey (CAYS) to measure cropping intensities and yields as well
as adoption rate and impact studies.  The Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU) supported the PME departments in their activities, prepared
the periodic reports en fadama development and identified performance indicators, which
were used by the Bank and the Borrower supervision missions from 1997. APMEU also
trained the ADP staff'to improve their analytical capability, conducted a number of socio-
economic impact studies and prepared the Borrower's ICR.  FACU  satisfactorily
coordinated the project, conducted the MTR, hosted the NFFCC Secretariat and provided
implementation support to the ADPs. FACU also conducted the studies on fadama
marketing and the local manufacture of pumps. Two areas where FACU performance
was unsatisfactory were: (a) allowing states that did not meet key eligibility criteria, such
as the conduct of the aquifer study, to participate in the facility; and (b) delays in the
operation of the Centralized Special Account.  The latter witnessed considerable
improvement towards the end of the loan period following the streamlining of the
statement of expenditure process and the technical assistance given to the ADPs by
FACU to facilitate loan drawdown.
17. Technology development and dissemination support to fadama development was
provided by the National Agricultural Technology Support Project (NATSP) which was
implemented alongside the NFDP. In the core states, the adaptive research program led
to improved technologies for water and soil management, as well as the introduction of
new crops. Irish potato, garlic, industrial sugarcane and fruit trees were introduced as
part of a diversification strategy to reduce the seasonal tomato and onion market glut
experienced in some locations. Technologies were also developed to combat major crop
diseases, such as, basal rot of onion, which in a state such as Kebbi could result in an 80
percent yield reduction. Technology support to fadama development was weak in most
of the facility states because of inadequate staffing and funding and poor linkages
between the fadama unit and other units of the ADP.
18. Environmental Assessment. The environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the
northern states was conducted by FACU in 1991 as a condition of loan effectiveness. An
EIA was also conducted for the southern and middle belt states in 1994. A few facility
states conducted individual EIAs, but these were not fully processed to enable
modifications to be mrade to the project, such as pumping from surface waters. FACU
undertook a study on pastoralist-farmer conflict in the fadama areas but did not carry out
the study on the potential for irrigation by recharge of the fadama through flood control.
In 1998, widespread flooding affected the fadama areas, leading to the destruction of
crops and some wells. In the few cases, where signs of salinization were observed in the
field, the ADPs are training the FUAs on remedial measures. Overall, the level of fadama



- 7-
development under this project did not pose a serious threat to the environment. It is
expected that the data from the weather and hydrological stations and the other
monitoring arrangements established under the project will facilitate the monitoring of
future development.
19.  Pastoralist-farmer conflict was reported in some states leading to the destruction of
some wells.  Although all the core states have established Conflict Resolution
Committees, many of the committees are not fully functional because of funding
constraints. The Petroleum (Special) Trust Fund, through the Pastoralist Development
Program started in 1998, assisted in conflict resolution by: (a) retracing over 13,400 km
of stock routes and 1.2 m ha of grazing reserves; (b) identifying encroachment and
liaising with the local government to remove it; (c) encouraging the formation of 570
pastoralist herd owners associations for better resource management and to reduce the
conflict between trans-border pastoralists and local farmers; and (d) providing stock
watering points and veterinary services in some of the areas. The consultants are making
proposals to the Program for a sub-regional approach to pastoralist development with the
active involvement of the governments, pastoralists and farmers in the West African sub-
region.
20.  National Fadama Facility (NEF). The NFF was to equip and fund the operations
of the NFFCC and its secretariat, and assist fadama development in non-core states that
satisfied the eligibility criteria. The objectives of the NFF were substantially achieved
with the establishment of the NFFCC Secretariat, the expansion of fadama development
beyond the traditional fadama areas in northern Nigeria, and the creation of awareness of
the potentials for intensified crop production during the dry season. The facility assisted
the construction of 11,140 wells (139 percent of the appraisal target of 8,000) and the
procurement of 11,350 pumps, although only 16 percent of the pumps had been
distributed to farmers as at the close of the loan. Implementation was constrained by: (a)
delays in the procurement of wells and pumps; (b) slow disbursement from the
Centralized Special Account; and (c) poor enlightenment of the FUAs on the principles
of full cost recovery enshrined in the project. There were complaints by the NFFCC
Secretariat that the Bank sometimes issued procurement no-objections directly to
individual facility states without informing the Secretariat, making coordination difficult
and raising the risk of over-commitment on the loan funds at the end of the project.
21.  Technical Assistance (TA). A total of 324 man-months of experts was planned for
fadama administration at the state level, but actual usage went up to 540 man-months
because of the split of two of the five initial states. More TA was also used at the federal
level than estimated. FACU, which was allocated 120 man-months for irrigation
engineers, actually used 197 man-months, partly to honor the contractual payments for
expatriate staff recruited under a previous loan. Additional 66 man-months were used for
the conduct of specific studies. APMEU used 43 man-months for studies against the
appraisal estimate of 24, while the FMWRRD used 38 man-months against 74 man-
months for studies and consultancies. The lower usage by FMWRRD was because it
employed the services of the National Water Resources Institute in place of the
Consultant Hydrologist. The quality of TA under the project was satisfactory.



- 8 -
22. Project Costs, Financing and Timetable. Project costs (Table 8A) as of April 30,
1999, stood at about US$104.2 million, 98 percent of the US$105.9 million appraisal
estimate. There were, however, considerable deviations in the cost of some components.
The cost of the Shallow Tubewell/Pump component fell from 57 percent of the estimated
total cost to 31 percent of the actual cost. This was largely due to the lower unit prices
obtained for the pumps and for well drilling. The relative cost of rural infrastructure, on
the other hand, doubled from 1 0 percent to 22 percent, because of the high bids submitted
by road contractors and the increase of the cost of the Watari Irrigation Scheme from
US$4.5 million to over US$8.0 million. The foreign costs totaling US$57.0 million were
55 percent of actual total cost.
23. The loan disbursement of US$66.4 million as at April 30, 1999, financed 64
percent of actual project cost, the same as estimated. The state governments together
contributed US$10.5 million, 233 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$4.5 million,
reflecting their strong commitment to the project. The FGN contribution of US$4.2
million was 89 percent of the US$4.7 million expected (Table 8B). The release of the
amounts budgeted by both the state and federal governments was, however, sometimes
delayed and the FGN did not release funds in 1997, though the amounts were released
later in 1998/99. The farmers contributed US$23.1 million, 79 percent of the appraisal
estimate of US$29.2 million, mainly through deposits and repayments for the fadama
package and the cost of land development. The farmers' contribution would have been
higher but for the implementation delays, especially in the supply of the pumps. Due to
delays in pump procurement and the construction of wells, the project was implemented
in 6.5 years as compared with the four years estimated at appraisal.
24. Project Outcone.  The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory.  The
objectives of tubewel] and fadama infrastructure construction, organization of the farmers
into groups for irrigation management, and establishment of monitoring systems for
project implementation as well as for the environment were substantially achieved.
Studies by the Borrower indicate that in Kano, there was increased technology adoption
(from 6 percent for garlic to 62 percent for improved tomato varieties) and crop yield (29
percent for peppers to 36 percent for wheat). Price inflation notwithstanding, returns per
hectare increased substantially. In Jigawa, it increased by 65 percent for vegetable
production (from N29,956 to N49,510) and by 334 percent for wheat (from N7,456 to
N32,375). For rice paddy in Niger, the returns per hectare increased by 497 percent,
from N7,906 to N47,200. About 90 percent of the farmers in Gombe acknowledged an
increase in their incornies and respectively 5, 10, 13 and 20 percent of the farmers bought
pick up vans, bicycles, motorcycles and new carts, while 30 percent enrolled their
children in schools and 17 percent changed the roof of their houses from thatch to zinc.
There were reports of improved family nutrition, and the acquisition of more wives by
the farmers. The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of 40 percent exceeded the
appraisal estimate of 24 percent.
25. Within the community, more pepper and tomato markets were established and
seasonal rural-urban migration was reduced as young men now had gainful employment
in the fadama farms or markets during the dry season. In effect, the project helped to
reduce rural poverty. The project was also a major pioneering effort towards increased



-9-
- beneficiary participation. It was the first Bank-assisted project that insisted on full cost
recovery and the awareness created among policy makers and farmers about the viability
of a full cost recovery fadama development program would be useful for the design of
future projects.
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.  Four major factors positively affected project performance: (a) farmers' acceptance
of the fadama technology, arising from the positive experience with the earlier fadama
development efforts as well as the suitability of the technology for the small-scale
farmers; (b) the FUA group approach, which allowed for mutual support and learning
among the members, facilitated service delivery, and enhanced farmer control of
irrigation management; (c) the profitability of fadama farming; and (d) strong
government support for the project.
27.  The following factors adversely affected the project:
(a)  factors subject to government control, including: (i) untimely release of
counterpart funding; (ii) irregular meetings of the Agricultural Development
Project Executive Committee (ADPEC) and the Federal Agricultural
Development Projects Executive Committee (FADPEC), leading to delays
in the approval of work programs and budgets; and (iii) scarcity of fuel for
the farmers' irrigation pumps;
(b)  factors subject to the control of the implementing agencies, including:
(i) poor procurement planning and contract management, including
inadequate synchronization of the contracts for pump and well procurement;
and (ii) inadequate enlightenment and involvement of the farmers, LGCs
and   non-governmental  organizations  in  project  planning   and
implementation; and
(c) factors not subject to government control, including: (i) delays in the
implementation of some of the well drilling and pump supply contracts, and
poor performance of some contractors; (ii) pastoralist-farmer and inter-
community conflicts, which led to the destruction of some wells and the
stoppage of farm work for some periods; (iii) floods, especially in 1998
which destroyed crops in several parts of the country; (iv) issue by the Bank
of procurement no-objections directly to individual facility states without
informing the Facility Secretariat, making coordination difficult and raising
the risk of over-commitment on the loan proceeds; and (v) initial
disagreement between the Bank and the implementing agencies on pump
specifications which caused implementation delays. The Bank was also
deficient in the supervision of procurement operations (see para. 30 of Part I
for further details).
E.  Project Sustainability



- 10-
28.  The sustainability of the project is likely. The project has spread awareness among
policy makers and farmers about the potentials for accelerated agricultural growth
through the development of the fadama areas. Farmers own the irrigation investments
and meet in full the on-farm capital and operating costs. The participating farmers have
obtained substantial financial returns and most have shown an eagerness to invest more.
The farmners, FUAs, ADPs and federal supervising units have gained considerable
implementation experience that would improve future operations. Greater attention
would, however, have to be paid to the storage, processing and marketing problems in
addition to the efforts already made on crop diversification by introducing less perishable
crops like Irish potato and garlic to complement the more perishable tomato and onion.
29. Although government has indicated strong support for the project and requested for
a second phase, the operational plans prepared by the implementing agencies aim to
reduce the dependence of farm level investments on additional budget funds. Part of the
over N329 million in the escrow account of the project is planned to be applied to expand
fadama development. A vibrant private sector now exists in Nigeria and there would
have been greater private sector support for fadama investments in this project but for the
control of procuremLents by the public sector (the ADPs). Accordingly, in future, the
FUAs will procure their wells and pumps directly from suppliers, while the ADPs
provide technical and extension advice, further training of the FUAs, credit liaison and
monitoring support. Environmental sustainability will be assured through the established
monitoring systems and the action plans being developed for mitigation measures where
applicable.  The major concern on the environmental front is the capacity of the
government to regulate the use of surface and underground water resources based on the
monitoring data, especially if future development will involve surface pumping,
expansion of fadama development to upland areas and ecologically sensitive wetlands, or
the potential escalation of conflicts between farmers, pastoralists and fishermen.
F.  Bank Perforniance
30. The Borrower rated Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation
satisfactory. The Bank demonstrated considerable flexibility during implementation by
allowing the modification of the targets at the MTR, three loan extensions as well as four
formal loan amendments. With regards to supervision, however, Bank performance was
only marginally satisfactory, due mainly to deficiencies in the supervision of procurement
operations. The NFFCC Secretariat, complained that procurement no-objections were
issued by the Bank to the participating states without informing the Secretariat, making it
difficult for the Secretariat to effectively coordinate the project and to avoid potential
over-commitment on the loan proceeds. Towards the close of the loan, the project was
also selected by the Bank for an ex-post procurement audit. The report identified a
number of flaws in the procurement operations, resulting in uneconomic procurement,
lack of transparency, reduced competition and exceeding of the aggregate limits
prescribed for procurement under the shopping procedure. The flaws include: (a) lack of
appropriate procurement planning, including contract packaging and procurement
scheduling; (b) splitting of procurement contracts, with the objective of avoiding ICB
procedures; (c) lack of transparency in the choice of firms selected under shopping
procedures; (d) weak record keeping and procurement filing system by the implementing



- I I -
agencies; (e) inadequate contract management by the implementing agencies, including
the non-enforcement of contractual conditions for defaulting contractors; and
(f) inadequate procurement supervision by Bank staff, including the entertainment of
procurement cases below the prior thresholds, granting of approvals by Resident Mission
staff where they are not authorized to do so, and weak end use audit of goods and works.
The Government, working with Bank staff, has drawn up an action plan to address the
identified lapses in the procurement process and to avoid a repeat in future projects.
Overall, Bank performance may be rated as marginally satisfactory.
G.  Borrower Performance
31.  The federal and state governments demonstrated a strong support for the project
because of its clear impact in the northern parts of the country dominated by low and
erratic rainfall regimes. This was demonstrated by the government's continuous request
for a second phase of the project, even when there was a moratorium on foreign loans.
The project also received implementation assistance from the NFFCC Secretariat, FACU,
APMEU, FMWRRD, FMANR and Federal Ministry of Finance. Borrower performance
in implementation was, however, marginally satisfactory, especially in two major areas:
(a) timely release of counterpart funds. Federal funding was not released in 1997,
although this was made up in 1998/99. On the average, the state governments performed
well but considerable variation occurred among them, and some states did not allow for
deduction at source of the counterpart funds to enhance timely release; and (b) regular
meeting of the project executive committees to approve annual project proposals and
budgets. Late approvals resulted in delays in project implementation. In addition, there
was the problem of poor procurement planning and contract management by the
implementing agencies, which resulted in the lack of transparency and uneconomic
procurement reported in the procurement audit report.  Overall, the Borrower's
performance may be rated as marginally satisfactory, given the satisfactory project
outcome and the performance in project preparation and compliance with covenants.
H.  Summary of Findings: Key lessons Learned, Future Operations
32. The key finding of implementation experience is that a full cost recovery program
for fadama development is feasible and such development can be accelerated through
greater farmer control of irrigation management. At the time of project preparation, the
government position was to subsidize all farm inputs and investments even when public
resources for such subsidies were declining. Nevertheless, the experience of farmer
participation in the management of field canals at the Watari Irrigation Scheme portends
well for greater involvement of the water users groups in the maintenance of the main
canals in medium-scale irrigation schemes operated by the River Basin and Rural
Development Authorities.
33. The following major lessons have emerged from project implementation:
(a) strong beneficiary participation in the design and implementation of projects
increases the sense of ownership. Consideration of farmers' preference in
the siting of infrastructural facilities and selection of fadama equipment



- 12 -
enhances ownership and maintenance of the facilities as well as loan
repayment;
(b)  farmers want greater flexibility in project design to allow them to select
appropriate components, for example, using pumps only where surface
water is available;
(c)  greater involvement of the private sector, LGCs and NGOs can improve the
chances of sustainability of the project activities;
(d) key eligibility criteria for prospective participating states and other
implementing agencies need to be complied with before they are allowed
into the project to ensure commitment;
(e)  in future fadama operations, the FUAs will be responsible for the
procurement of their wells and pumps directly from suppliers, while the
ADPs will focus more on the provision of technical and extension advice,
further training of the FUAs, credit liaison and monitoring support;
(f)  inadequ,ate attention to the procurement system, especially during project
implementation, is prejudicial to satisfactory project outcome; and
(g)  future project designs need to consider more comprehensively the
downstream linkages such as storage, processing and marketing for fadama
development.
34. Future Operations. The operational plans prepared by the project units (Appendix
B) for 1999 to 2001., reflect a commitment to: (a) continue building the capacity of the
FUAs to manage fadama development, through extension advice and training;
(b) continue monitoring project implementation and the environmental effects; (c) greater
involvement of the LGCs and FUAs in the construction and maintenance of rural
infrastructure; and (d) direct procurement of wells and pumps by the FUAs. Following
government request for a second phase fadama project, the Bank started preparation work
with the Borrower in. October 1999. The project, which is expected to be launched early
in the year 2001, is aimed at poverty alleviation and enhanced food security through
sustainable increases in agricultural production, improved market-oriented infrastructure,
diversification into commercially-oriented complementary activities, increased value-
added production and incremental employment, effective irrigators and other economic
interest groups, sustainable financial and technical services delivery to beneficiaries, and
sound policy and institutional framework for expansion of private fadama development.
In this regard, it is important to note that Bank approval of the proposed second phase
fadama development program is contingent upon satisfactory progress in the
implementation of the Government's Action Plan to safeguard against procurement
irregularities in the fiture.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3451-UNI)
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Evaluation Summary
A. Achievement of objectives
Substantial     Partial       Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                  O              O              Ol             0
Sector policies                 O              IA             0              0
Financial objectives            O              El             O              C1
Institutional development       O              0              E              E
Physical objectives             0              0              E              O
Poverty reduction               0              0              0              E
Gender issues                   O              0              O              O
Other social objectives         O                             El             El
Environmental objectives        O              0              0              0
Public sector management        El0                           El             El
Private sector development      El             0l             E              E
Other (specify)                 E              E              E              E
B. Project sustainability              Likely           Unlikely        Uncertain
El               0 EE
Highl
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                        EO                                  El
Preparation assistance                 E                 El               E
Appraisal                              El               FA                E
Supervision                            E                 E                0
Highly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                              El                E                E
Implementation                           El                                 El
Covenant compliance                      O                 0                E
Operation (if applicable)                E                 E                E
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome      satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
C1             A              El             El



- 14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit titl               Purpose              Year of approval   Status
Preceding operations
1. Multi-State       The project was to improve              1989       Completed
Agricultural      agricultural services (mainly adaptive
Development III    esearch and unified extension) and
(Cr. 2035-UNI)    rural infrastructure (roads, water) to
stimulate agricultural growth.
2. National Seed and   The project was to improve the        1990       Completed
Quarantine        institutions and policy for seed
(Ln. 31 83-UNI)    production and strengthen the plant
quarantine services.
3. National Agricultural The project's objectives were to    1991        Ongoing
Research          develop the institutional framework
(Cr. 2261 -UNI)   and improve the research management
systems for agricultural research and
o strengthen the capacity of research
institutes.
Following operations
1. Environmental     The project was to develop a program    1992       Completed
Management         o integrate environmental activities in
(Cr. 2353-UNI)    the country on an inter-sectoral and
inter-regional basis.
2. National Agricultural The project was to assist the Borrower  1992    Ongoing
Technology Support o develop, adapt and extend
(Ln. 3483-UNI)    echnologies for the principal farming
systems of the country, and reorganize
and unify the agricultural extension
services.



- 15-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                   Date planned           latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  May 1982          May 1982
Preparation                             1982                  September 1982
Appraisal                               1991                  March 1991
Negotiations                            September 1991        September 9,1991
Board presentation                     March 31,1992          March 26, 1992
Signing                                April 30, 1992         August 25, 1992
Effectiveness                           September 30, 1992    February 23, 1993
Midterm review                          March 1994            March 31, 1995
Project completion                     March31, 1996          March 31, 1999
Loan closing                            September 30, 1996    March 31, 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual (a)
(US$ million)
FY 93 FY 94 FY 95 FY 96  FY 97  FY98  FY 99  FY 00
Appraisal estimate         6.0   18.0   38.0   57.0   67.5
Actual                     0.0    2.4   14.2   27.9   37.0   48.8   66.9   67.5
Actual as % of estimate     0      13     37     49      55    72      99    100
Date of last disbursement                    September 20, 1999
(a) Loan was extended from the original closing date of September 30, 1996 to March 31, 1999.



- 16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementatiLon indicators in
SAR                                     Estimated                Actual
Core States
1. Shallow tubewells
(a) Washbore (nunber constructed)    18,000               25,477
(b) Tubewell (nurmber drilled)    24,000                  13,380
2. Pumps
(a) Number procured               42,000                  42,827
(b) Number distributed            42,000                  28,438
3. Fadama infrastructure
(a) Access road construction (Km.)    810                 716
(b) FUA go-downs and storage sheds   138                  130
(number constructed)
(c) Cooling facilities (number constr.)  5                4
(d) Watari Irrigation Scheme      Construction of spillway   Spillway and distribution
and distribution canals to  canals constructed and
irrigate about 1,200 ha. at 678 ha. irrigated at ERR
ERR of 23 percent      of 21 percent.
4. Institutional development
(a) Fadama admin:istration        324 in the core states  540 because of division
(man months cf experts)                               of two of the states
5. Planning, monitoring and evaluation
(a) Conduct of environmental impact   3                   3
assessment by FACU (number)
(b) Technical assistance for FACU  120                    263
(man months)
(e) Preparation of progress reports on   One per year     Annual reports prepared
fadama development by APMEU
FacilityStates
6. National Fadama Facility
(a) Washbores (number constructed)   4,500                8,051
(b) Tubewells (number constructed)   3,500                3,089
(c) Pumps procured (number)       8,000                   11,350
(d) Pumps distributed (number)    8,000                    1,839
I. Modified indicators                    Estimated                Actual
1. Shallow tubewells
(a) Washbore (number constructed)    28,669               25,477
(b) Tubewell (nurmber drilled)    15,519                  13,380
2. Pumps
(a) Number procured               44,188                  42,827
(b) Number distriltuted           44,188                  28,438
3. Fadama infrastructure
(a) Access road construction (Km.)    609                 511



- 17 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators                     Estimated
in SAR
1. Construction of tubewells (a) Farmer organizations have developed capacity to design and
administer contracts and undertake cost recovery.
(b) Or variations will be introduced in contracts for drillers to
undertake the tasks of organizing farmers and cost recovery.
(c) Indigenous capability has been developed for maintenance of
existing wells and construction of new wells.
2. Pump procurement      Farner organizations have developed capacity to design and
administer contracts for pump procurement directly from the
suppliers.
3. Fadama infrastructure   (a) State Governments will contract to LGCs the construction of
access roads and hand over to them the maintenance of such
roads.
(b) Farmer groups will be trained by the ADPs to maintain fadama
roads, and to design and administer contracts for road
maintenance.
Public expenditures      Public expenditure on fadama development is to decline as the
private sector increasingly provides services.
5. Financial intermediation (a) Government will design and implement special programs for
strengthening rural financial markets for fadama development.
(b) ADPs will withdraw from financing irrigation development at
farm level as financial intermediaries start to supply the required
services to farmers.
6. Marketing             Private processing and export companies will contract fadama
farmers for assured supplies of produce.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal           Status                   Impact of study
1. Environmental assessment To identify the ecological and social  Completed in 1991    The 1991 study fulfilled one of the
of fadama development    impacts of the project, assess the risk  (for the northern  conditions for loan effectiveness. The
associated with these and formulate   region) and 1994 (for  reports were, however, not fully
mitigative actions to ensure sustainable   the middle belt and    processed to enable modification of the
fadama development.                   southern regions).   current project.
2 Pastorais t-farmer       To identify existing sources of conflict and Completed in 1998.   Conflict resolution committees were
relationship            tension between fadama farmers and                           established in the core states but in some
pastoralists and mechanisms to defuse                      states, there was inadequate funding for
them, and formulate mitigative actions.                    the effective operation of the committee.
3. Recharge of fadama by   To characterize the depletion of shallow    Study was not done.
controlled flooding      aquifers and identify the potential for
recharge of the aquifers through controlled
flooding from existing dams.
4. Shallow aquifers        To establish that potential for fadama  Conducted by most   The study fulfilled one of the conditions
irrigation exists and to delineate priority   states between 1991   for participation of individual states in
areas for drilling.                   and 1998.            the project but a few states participated
without a final or satisfactory report.
5. Local manufacturing of    To examine the feasibility of local  Completed in 1999.   Some of the facility states procured their
pumps                    assembly of pumps to reduce import                          pumps locally.
dependence.
6. Fadama marketing        To review the current status of production Completed in 1998.   The recommendations will provide input
and markets and recommend actions to                       to design of follow-up project.
reduce marketing constraints.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                 Actual/latest estimate (US$M) (a)
Foreign                                     Foreign
Item                              Local costs   costs     Total    Percent  Local costs   costs        Total    Percent
Shallow tubewells (including        29.0      28.3       57.3        54         14.2       16.8       31.0         30
pumps)
Fadama infrastructure               3.2        6.6        9.8         9         9.9        11.9        21.8       21
Institutional development            3.0       3.8        6.8         6         11.2       13.6        24.8        24
Planning, monitoring and evaluation    2.6     7.4        10.0       10         6.8         8.4        15.2        14
National Fadama Facility            4 0        3.7        7.7         7         5.1         6.3        11.4        11
Total base costs                    41.8       49.8      91.6       (86)
Physical contingencies              3.9        4.4        8.3         8
Price contingencies                 2.3        3.7        6.0         6
Total project cost                  48.0       57.9      105.9       100       47.2        57.0       104.2       100
Note:    (a) Actual as at April 30, 1999. Exchange rate of one US$ to the Naira were: N 22 (1993, 1994), N 82 (1995), N 80 (1996)
and N 85 (1997, 1998, 1999).
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                  Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Foreign                                     Foreign
Source                          Local costs  costs       Total    Percent  Local costs   costs        Total   Percent (b)
IBRD                                9.6        57.9      67.5        64         9.4        57.0        66.9        64
Federal Government                  4.7        0.0        4.7         4         4.2         0.0        4.2         4
State Government                    4.5        0.0        4.5         4         10.5        0.0        10.5        10
Farmers                             29.2       0.0       29.2        28        23.1         0.0        23.1        22
Total                               48.0       57.9      105.9       100       47.2        57.0       104.2       100
Note: (b) Actual as at April 30, 1999.



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Financial Analysis
1.   The financial analysis at appraisal was based on combinations of two cropping
patterns (rice in the wet season, and either 50:50 combination of Vegetables/Wheat or
Grains only in the dry season) and two farm sizes (0.5 ha. and 2 ha.). The vegetables
were tomatoes, onions and peppers. At 1991 prices and 21 percent cost of financing, the
financial returns were:
Crop combination      Farm size (ha.)    Washbore %         Tubewell %
Vegetables/Wheat         1.0                 > 100                > 100
0.5                 > 100                  93
0.2                    53                  29
Grains                   1.0                 > 100                   86
0.5                    64                  37
0.2                    17                   3
2.   The re-estimated financial returns based on the experience in Jigawa State were 114
percent using the washbore, and 152 percent using the tubewell, assuming the following:
(a) crop combination of vegetables (0.82), wheat (0.13), sugar cane (0.05); (b) washbore
irrigating 0.5 ha. and tubewell 1.0 ha.; (c) cropping intensity of one in the first cropping
season and two in subsequent seasons; (d) 5-year life for pump and 10 year life for
washbore/tubewell; (e) project price for tubewell and pump but pump replacement
charged at current market price; (f) 1997 market prices for inputs and outputs and 10
percent of pump price for maintenance and repairs; and (g) benefits lagged by one year.
Economic Analysis
3.   The appraisal economic rate of return (ERR) of 24 percent was obtained on the
basis of: (a) pump/tubewell and pump/washbore package cost of N1O,362 and N6,837
respectively, at shadow exchange rate of U$$1.0 = N12.5; (b) net incremental benefits
with and without the project; (c) farm inputs priced without subsidies or taxes: (d) labor
inputs (market wage rate in 1991 was N20 per day) and other local costs converted to
shadow values using, an SCF of 0.85; and (e) incremental outputs of rice, wheat and
vegetables valued at border farm-gate prices. The ERR for Vegetables/Wheat was:
(i) using washbore, 36 percent or more; and (ii) using tubewell, 62 percent or more for
0.5 ha or larger and 1 5 percent for 0.2 ha. The ERR for grains was: (i) using washbore,
negative for 0.2 ha, 14 percent for 0.5 ha and 43 percent for 1.0 ha; and (ii) using
tubewell, negative for 0.5 ha or less and 20 percent for 1.0 ha.
4.   The re-estimated overall ERR over a 20-year project life (1993 - 2013) at a
discount rate of 0.12 was 40 percent based on the same assumptions as at appraisal but
using 1994 prices and the cropping intensity of two observed during the life of the
project. The estimate was for the seven core states and Watari Irrigation Scheme as
shown below in Table 9a.



Table 9A. Economic Costs and Benefits for Seven Core States and Watari Irrigation Scheme
Net Present
Cost           Benefit        Net Benefit       Value            ERR
Project Unit           (N million)      (N million)     (N million)     (N million)       (percent)
Bauchi                   1,728.7          3,663.7         1,935.0         1,114.5            44
Gombe                     813.9           1,685.9          872.0           157.0             40
Jigawa                   1,845.5          5,326.7         3,481.2          727.5             40
Kano                     2,701.7          4,776.0         2,074.3          511.2             44
Kebbi                    1,682.9          4,824.2         3,141.3          662.6             43
Sokoto                    607.2           1,319.5          712.3           147.4             31
Zamfara                   272.3            534.9           262.6           26.8              18
Watari                    430.3           1,979.4         1,549.1          237.4             21
All units                                                                 3,307.6            40



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan                                  Original      Revised
Agreement    Covenant   Present   fulfillment   fulfillment
Section         type        status        date         date                    Description of covenant                           Comments
2.02 (b)             1           C        2/23/1993          -       Opening of special accounts for FACU and             The Borrower is in full
I_APMEU and each eligible state.                      Compliance.
3.01 (b)             5           C        3/31/1992      2/23/93    Borrower to enter into subsidiary loan                The Borrower is in full
agreement with eligible states to draw on           compliance
loan.
3.01 (c)(ii)         4           CP        Quarterly         -       Federal Government and eligible states to            Federal Govemment did not
and 3.02                                                             provide required counterpart funds.                  release any funds in 1997
although the amounts involved
were later released in 1998/99.
Some states did not release the
required amounts on time.
3.01 (c)(iii)        5           C         Annually                  Borrower to prepare annual work program              The Borrower is in full
and send to the Bank not later than August          compliance.
31 of the preceding year
3.01 (c)(iv)         2          CD         Annually                  Borrower to cause to prepare independent             Some of the project units
and (v)                                                              annual audits and submit the reports to the          delayed in the submission of
Bank within 6 months of the end of the year.        the reports in 1997/98.
3.01 (c)             5           C        2/23/1993                  Borrower to prepare and furnish the Bank for         The Borrower is in full
review the bye-laws of the FUAs.                    compliance.
Covenant types:                                                                                                        Present status:
I=   Accounts/audits                             7  =    Involuntary resettlement                                     C   =    covenant complied with
2     Financial performance/ revenue generation from   8  =    Indigenous people                                       CD =    complied with after delay
beneficiaries
3 =   Flow and utilization of project funds      9  =    Monitoring, review, and reporting                             CP =    complied with partially
4 =   Counterpart funding                        10 =    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9          NC =    not complied with
5 =   Management aspects of the project or executing   11 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
agency                                     12 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/ institutional action
6 =   Environmental covenants                    13 =    Other



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Actual (a)
Stage of project cycle         Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Preparation to appraisal         0.0         0.0        97.5       167.7
Appraisal                        0.0         0.0        26.3        57.5
Negotiations through Board       0.0         0.0        10.3        29.6
approval
Supervision                     145.0       334.7      271.5       553.2
Completion                       0.0         0.0        32.4        41.9
Total                           145.0       334.7      438.0       849.9
Note: (a)  Actual as at June H1, 1999.



- 24 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number Days  Specialized
Stage of project  Month/    of      in   staff skills                                 Types of
cycle         year   persons field  represented        Performance rating        problems
Implementation  Development
status       objectives
Identification      4/82       3      45  IE, AG, EC
Preparation         9/82       2      28  IE, AG                                       Institutional
5/83      2      30  IE, EC                                       issues
2/85      2       6   IE, EC                                      related to
4/85      2      18  IE, EC                                       large
10/87      1      14  IE                                          irrigation
10/88     1       11  IE                                          schemes.
Pre-appraisal        6/90      3      15  EC, AG, CS
Appraisal            3/91      7      189 EC, IE, EV,
AE, AG, IS,
RE
Supervision 1       5/92       2      54  RE, AG              S               S            -
Supervision 2       10/92      3      63  RE, AG, FS          S               S            -
Supervision 3       2/93       3      20  RE, AG, FS          S               S            -
Supervision 4       4/94       7      133  IE, EC, AG,        S               S            -
_                       IS, RS, GE
Supervision 5       8/94       10     89  AG, 00, FS          S               S            -
Supervision 6       3/96       10     100 RE, AG, FS,         S               S        Inclusion of
SS, AE, PS                                 Abuja ADP.
Supervision 7       3/97       1      16  RE                  S               S
Supervision 8       6/97       1      15  00                  S               S
Supervision 9       11/97      9      54  00, AG, AE          U               S        Counterpart
funding
Supervision 10      3/98       3      21  RE, AE, AG          S               S
Completion          10/98      5      151  AG, RE, AE,        S               S
EC
Key to Staff Skills:
AE          Agricultu-al Economist              IE    =      Irrigation Engineer
AG          Agricultui-ist                      IS          Institutions Specialist
CS   =      Credit Specialist                   00           Operations Officer
EC          Economist                           PS           Procurement Specialist
EV   =      Environmental Specialist            RE           Rural Engineer
FS          Financial Specialist                RS           Rural Sociologist
GE   =      Agricultural Engineer                SS          Social Scientist
Performance Rating:
S     =     Satisfactory
U     =     Unsatisfactory



- 25 -
Appendix A
NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 3451-UNI]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.   A World Bank mission assisted by staff of the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF),
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR), the Federal
Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development (FMWRRD), the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU)2 undertook a final supervision of the National Fadama
Development Project (NFDP) during October 26 to December 17, 1998, in preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
2.   The mission, made up of four teams, visited the 37 state project units and reviewed
the activities of the three federal support agencies, viz., FACU, APMEU and FMWRRD.
The mission visited some of the project sites and had discussions with the staff, clients,
beneficiaries, and senior government officials to elicit their views about the
implementation of the project and plans for the future. A wrap-up meeting held in Abuja
on December 17, 1998, and attended by the heads of the implementing units as well as
staff of the FMF, FMANR and FMWRRD discussed the observations of the mission as
reflected in the draft aide-memoire. Their comments have been utilized, as appropriate,
in modifying this aide-memoire. The mission is grateful for all the courtesies extended to
it by the management and staff of the project units and the state governments.
3.   This aide-memoire, which is subject to review by Bank management, summarizes
the mission's findings and conclusions, the agreements reached with the Borrower and
the implementing units, the operational plan of the project and the follow-up actions
required under the ICR process. It assesses the objectives of the project and their
achievement, the major factors that affected project implementation, the performance of
the Bank and the Borrower, the sustainability of the benefits of the project and the key
lessons learned from implementation.
2 The mission comprised: Team 1, Jonah Attah, Innocent Osuagwu, O.S. Okeke (FACU), Anthony Azih
(APMEU), F.O. Nnabugwu, Samuel Ibeabuchi (FMANR), Niyi Afolayan (FMWRRD), T.A.
Adeyemi (FMF), Samuel Eremie (World Bank, Team Leader and Mission Coordinator); Team 2,
Mamkur Tyem, M. Yakubu, S. Auwal (FACU), E.J. Oklobia (APMEU), Dele Ilebani (World Bank,
Team Leader); Team 3, A.A. Oredipe, M.D. Fali, Tayo Adewumi (FACU), Essien Ekpiken
(APMEU), Esther Gadzama (World Bank, Team Leader); and Team 4, Ayo Adeniyi, Peter Ta'avaan,
R-C. 0. Okoro (FACU), Raymond Akor (APMEU), Engr. H. Yusuf (FMWRRD), Mukhtar
Abdulkadir (FMF), A.0. Falusi (World Bank Consultant), Lewis Campbell (World Bank Consultant,
Team Leader).



- 26 -
Project Background and Objectives
4.   Background. The NFDP, designed to be implemented over a four-year period at a
cost of US 105.9 million, was to build on the successful initiatives of some of the northern
agricultural development projects (ADPs) in developing small-scale irrigation by tapping
shallow ground water using low-cost petrol-driven pumps. The project was to be a major
source of agricultural growth and poverty alleviation for the small farmers who would
become less dependent on the erratic and low rainfall regimes. The US$67.5 million loan
for the project was approved by the Bank on March 26, 1992- and became effective on
February 23, 1993. The project was to be implemented in five core states (later divided
into seven) of Nigeria as well as in other states that met the agreed eligibility criteria.
5.   Objectives and Components. The objectives of the project as stated in the Loan
Agreement were to assist in:
(i)  the construction of about 50,000 shallow tubewells in the fadama lands for
small-scale irrigation;
(ii)  simplifying drilling technology for shallow tubewells;
(iii) the construction of fadama infrastructure;
(iv) the organization of fadama farmers for irrigation management, cost recovery
and better access to credit, marketing and other services;
(v)  the carrying out of aquifer studies;
(vi) the monitoring and upgrading of irrigation technologies; and
(vii) the completion  of full environmental assessment of future fadama
development.
6.   The five components of the project were as follows:
(i)  Shallow Tubewells: to develop (a) about 18,000 wells by washboring and
24,000 wells by drilling in the core states, and (b) about 4,500 wells by
washboring and 3,500 wells by drilling in other eligible states;
(ii)  Fadama Infrastructure: to (a) construct by contract in the core states about
405 kin of access roads and 135 km of fadama access roads and
rehabilitation of about 270 km of existing tracks including the installation of
about 135 culverts and reconstruction of approach roads, (b) construct about
78 shelters, 45 drying and storage sheds and three evaporative cooling
facilities for vegetables, and (c) complete the spill way and distribution
canals for the Watari Irrigation Scheme in Kano State;
(iii) Institutional Development, to (a) organize village-based Fadama Users
Associations (FUAs) to assist in the identification and selection of fadama



- 27 -
farmers for the project, oversee activities related to drilling, construction and
maintenance of fadama infrastructure, ensuring full cost recovery from users
of tubewells, pumps and other facilities, and monitoring available water
resources, (b) carry out cadastral surveys and recording of land title, and
(c) establish a satisfactory fadama administration program;
(iv) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, to (a) plan, monitor and evaluate
programs at the federal and state levels, including a full environmental
assessment by FACU of future fadama development, physical monitoring of
shallow aquifer levels and soil and water resources in conjunction with
FUAs, conduct of baseline surveys and annual surveys to measure cropping
intensities, yields and production, crop inputs and farm income under
irrigation, preparation by APMEU of annual reports on fadama
development, development by the FMWRRD of systems for monitoring,
planning, allocating and regulating Nigeria's water resources at national
level, and monitoring by APMEU of performance under the project, and
(b) establish for FMWRRD field and office facilities for regular
measurement of stream flows and ground water status in Nigeria, and
strengthen FMWRRD staff in collection and analysis of data; and
(v) National Fadama Facility, to (a) assist fadama development in states
meeting the eligibility criteria, and (b) provide vehicles, computers, office
equipment and furniture for the National Fadama Facility Coordinating
Committee (NFFCC).
7.   Among the covenants to facilitate project implementation were, the provision of
adequate counterpart funds, the establishment by the Borrower of the NFFCC, the
preparation and furnishing to the Bank for review of the bye-laws for the FUAs,
preparation of annual work plans and independent annual audits, and the conduct of a
number of studies including a mid-term review (MTR) of project progress.
Achievement of Objectives in Shallow Tubewell Development (Tables 1 and 2)
8.   The 47,421 wells that had been constructed at the time of the mission represent
95% of the SAR target of 50,000 wells and 81% of the revised target of 58,666 wells.
The balance of the wells is likely to be completed before the close of the loan. About
67% of the wells constructed were washbores as compared with the SAR estimate of 45%
since many states converted the tubewells to the cheaper washbores wherever it was
technically feasible. Some of the reasons for the incomplete achievement of the well
construction targets were: (a) reluctance of some farmers to pay deposits for the wells,
especially when they were not sure of the delivery of the accompanying pumps; (b) in
some states, the desire of farmers to have only the pumps for surface pumping; (c) delays
by some ADPs in the award of drilling contracts and payments for work done;
(d) abandonment of work by some contractors in preference for jobs from other agencies
that were ready to pay higher prices, and non-performance by some contractors. In
Sokoto and Zamfara, for example, the contract was revoked for non-performance but was
again re-awarded to the same contractor because of political interference; and (e) conduct



- 28 -
of inconclusive aquijfer study in a few of the facility states (e.g., Adamawa and Taraba)
and a draft or unsatisfactory aquifer study report in others (e.g., Akwa Ibom, Cross River,
Rivers and Enugu). S'ome of the wells in these states were constructed on a trial and error
basis with implications for higher abortive wells, higher program costs for the farmers
and increased recovery problems. In Taraba, 50% of the 18 tubewells drilled were
abortive.
9.   About 92% of lthe appraisal target of 50,000 pumps (and 77% of the revised target)
had been procured as at the time of the mission but only 52% of the appraisal target had
been distributed to farmers. The achievement was affected by: (a) initial problem, in the
core states, of reaching an agreement with the Bank on the specifications of the pumps to
be procured, especially taking into consideration the preference of farmers for some
brands of pumps; (b) poor synchronization of well drilling and pump procurement, as in
Benue, Bauchi and Giombe, which have more wells than pumps; (c) delays in the supply
of the pumps due to problems in import processing and attempts by some suppliers to
bulk the relatively small orders for a number of facility states, and even abandonment of
the contract by some contractors as in Borno, FCT and Bauchi; and (d) reluctance of
some farmers to make the initial deposits. Some states (e.g., Abia) will be supplied
pumps from Thailand instead of Japan for which the Bank gave a no-objection. Should
these pumps not perform satisfactorily, the image of the ADP is at risk and loan
repayment by the farmers could be difficult.  FACU  involvement in the pump
procurement process in Katsina and Borno, although done with good intentions to take
care of farmer preference, also led to a delay in the process in the two states.
10.  The delay in the construction of the wells and the distribution of the pumps implies
that the area put under crops using project facilities during the implementation period
will be lower than expected. Over the project life, a total of 100,582 ha. was cropped
with an average cropping intensity of two.
Achievement of Objlectives in Fadama Infrastructure (Tables 1 and 2)
11.  About 81% of the revised target of 825 km. forfadama access roads was achieved.
The upward revision of the target reflected the conversion of the provision for the higher
cost fadama roads to access roads. In a few states (e.g. Lagos) there was evidence of
poor siting of the roads and little consultation with the FUAs. In some of the facility
states, construction was by force account rather than contract mainly because of poor
counterpart fund support for award of contracts. The roads constructed have improved
access not only to the fadama plots but also to markets and other important social activity
points.  Most ADI's have not, however, made satisfactory arrangements for the
maintenance of the roads by the local government councils (LGCs) and the FUAs. Most
of the FUAs appreciate the importance of the roads and expressed willingness to
contribute to their maintenance. A few are already involved in routine maintenance. In
the oil-producing facility states where the companies are also involved in rural
infrastructure provision, there is need for the ADPs to encourage collaborative effort with
the companies also.



- 29 -
12.  The targets in construction of storage and marketing facilities in the core states
were largely achieved and some improvement has occurred in the handling of fadama
produce by the FUAs. Here again, satisfactory arrangements have not been made by
some of the ADPs for the transfer of ownership of the facilities to the FUAs. Some of the
FUAs also consider the size and siting of the facilities inappropriate to their needs, an
indication of poor consultation with them before construction.
13. In the Watari Irrigation Scheme the down slope of the dam was rehabilitated and
the spill way replaced helping to bring under cultivation about 678 ha as against the
target of 1,200 ha. The issue here is the high investment cost involved (about $11,780
per ha compared with about $500 per ha with the fadama approach) relative to the
expected returns. The returns will be economic only if substantially high yields and
product values are obtained by the farmers. The water users associations (WUAs) are
already maintaining the subsidiary canals and the challenge is to increase their capacity to
maintain also the main canals. The Kano State Government plans to raise water charges
to offset part of the operating cost.
Achievement of Objectives in Institutional Development (Tables 3 and 4)
14.  Partly because of the enthusiasm of the farmers to participate in the project, a total
of 9,052 FUAs were formed, 135% of the target of 6,693. About 68% of the FUAs
formed were registered with the Cooperative Department in the states. The performance
in the formation and registration of FUAs, however, varied from state to state, depending
mainly on the strength of the Rural Institutions Development (RID) or FUA unit of the
ADP. Among the facility states, for example, while Plateau formed 1,135 FUAs, Edo
formed only 13. Poor performance in FUA formation and development reflected on the
implementation of the loan package.
15. The participation of women in the program was encouraging in a few states but
very low in many others. Only 7% of the total FUAs formed were all female FUAs,
although many FUAs in the facility states were mixed. In Enugu and Imo, 86% and 50%,
respectively of the FUAs formed were all female FUAs. At the other extreme, less than
2% of the FUAs formed in Kano and Kebbi were all-female FUAs, and there were no
mixed FUAs. This situation applied in many of the core states where the mobilization of
women has been hampered by cultural and religious barriers, poorer financial strength of
the women and access to fadama land, and poor staffing of the ADPs by qualified women
to interact with women farmers. Future projects need implementation strategies to better
accommodate women farmers, such as reducing the deposit requirement for the package
as well as introducing labor-saving devices in fadama production.
16.  The performance in loan recovery, which was poor initially in the core states,
improved towards the end of the project.  While Bauchi, Gombe and Kebbi reported
recovery of 89% or more in 1997, Kano reported about 20%. The adoption of a more
aggressive recovery strategy by Kano late in 1998 resulted in considerable improvements.
In states with poor loan recovery, both the ADP staff and farmers appear not to be
sufficiently enlightened on their responsibilities and the underlying principles of the
project. Some of the facility states (e.g., Edo and Ekiti) did not collect a deposit before



- 30 -
constructing the wells. In many of the core states, however, farmers having seen the
benefits of fadama development are willing to make the required on-farm investments,
and improved crop yields and higher incomes have enabled some farmers to settle their
loans ahead of schedule. Three aspects of the recovery program need to tidied up. First,
some states received cash payments instead of insisting on transfers from the FUA' s bank
account. Second, in many of the facility states, escrow accounts have either not been
opened or where they exist, have no deposits in them. The initial deposits collected from
the FUAs in such states are being held in other project accounts. Lastly, firm decisions
have not yet been taken by the states and the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) to
use the escrow account for expanding fadama development after the loan. It was agreed
that the decisions wculd be concluded by the end of March 1999.
17. The project has considerably enhanced farmer empowerment. The FUAs have
improved the capacity of the farmers for collective action. The ADPs together have
trained 51,906 FUA members, mechanics and artisans on management, book keeping,
banking operations, well drilling, maintenance of wells and pumps and production
management. Some FUAs have been assisted to obtain credit from commercial banks for
their operations. In states such as Kwara and Adamawa, apex FUA organizations have
been established to further empower the FUAs.
18. One fundamental goal related to farmer empowerment has not, however, been
achieved as at the end of the project - FUAs obtaining their tubewells and pumps directly
from the private sector. There is already considerable experience in the core project
states, as well as a few of the facility states, of washbores constructed by private drillers
outside the project arrangement. Many farmers have also purchased their pumps directly
from the dealers, as in Borno where wells have been drilled but the pumps have not yet
been procured. Some of the farmers have indicated a strong preference for particular
brands of pumps for which they are prepared to pay higher prices. The ADPs have also
gained experience on the reputation of different contractors as well as the quality of the
pumps and can advise the FUAs accordingly. In essence, direct transactions between the
FUAs and the private sector are feasible. Such arrangement will ensure genuine farmer-
driven fadama development, allow farmers the pumps of their choice, and save the ADPs
the embarrassment arising from poor performance by contractors. The ADP, however,
has to continue to build the capacity of the FUAs to manage their investments, provide
extension support, monitor the performance of the contractors, monitor cost recovery, and
link the FUAs with commercial lending agencies for loans for investment and operations.
It was agreed at the wrap-up meeting to incorporate such direct relationships between
FUAs and contractors in future fadama development projects.
19. Cadastral surveys were planned to be undertaken by the ADPs to help establish the
farmers' title to fadama land in order to improve access to commercial bank loans. The
activity was suspended at the MTR because of the problem of identifying large expanses
of fadama land to be covered by such a survey, and because the earlier concept of land
titling was found not applicable to lands with community use rights.
20. The core states established satisfactory fadama administration programs supported
at the early stages of the project by expatriate staff.  Appropriate linkages were



- 31 -
established between the project and the National Agricultural Technology Support
Project (NATSP) that ran concurrently with it. The bifurcation of two of the core states
weakened management capacity which took some time to build up. In several facility
states, there was a poor understanding of the features of the fadama project and its
relationship to other sub-programs. Many senior staff in these states had not seen the
project documents as at the end of the project. The program management unit (PMU) of
the ADPs met regularly but the meetings of the ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC)
were very irregular in most states often leading to delays in approval of the ADP
proposals. Changes in the position of ADP Program Manager (PM) were frequent in
some ADPs, with adverse effects on implementation. Enugu, for example, had four PMs
between 1996 and 1998 and Kebbi six PMs between 1992 and 1998. Many of the ADPs
also had at least two PMs during the project period.
Achievement of Objectives in Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) (Table 5)
21.  The PME departments of the ADPs gave satisfactory support to the project. All
the ADPs conducted baseline surveys and cropped area and yields survey (CAYS) to
measure fadama cropping intensities, yields and production while most prepared farm
budgets annually and conducted adoption and impact studies. For most of the facility
states, impact studies were not yet due as the pumps that should go with the wells had not
been distributed. Quarterly and annual reports and product price data were regularly
prepared by the ADPs. A few ADPs, however, did not collect weather data, which would
make it difficult for them to effectively advise farmers on weather changes and the effect
on fadama development.
22. APMEU effectively provided monitoring and evaluation support to the project,
prepared the required periodic reports on fadama development and participated in all the
Bank supervision missions. Other achievements include: (a) design of standard baseline
survey questionnaire and supervision of the conduct of the survey; (b) identification of
performance indicators, design of monitoring format for the project and revision of the
indicators; (c) incorporation of fadama farming in the CAYS format and design of farm
budget and FUA monitoring formats; (d) training of ADP PME staff on data analysis,
monitoring and evaluation techniques, and computer applications and maintenance;
(e) conduct of three impact studies, viz., Socio-economic impact of the ADP system,
Evaluation of the effectiveness and impact of the training and visit (T&V) extension
system, and Impact assessment of the ADP rural water supply program; (f) conduct of an
external review of APMEU in 1998; and (g) preparation of the Borrower's ICR.
23. The major constraints APMEU faced include inadequate staffing arising from high
staff turnover and embargo on recruitment by the FGN, inadequate counterpart funding
and delayed release of the funds, delays in obtaining ministerial approval for its
programs, low expenditure limits for the management, and late rendition of reports by
some ADPs. As one of the measures to improve staff analytical capability, APMEU
hopes to have the twinning arrangement with the University of East Anglia effective from
February 1999.



- 32 -
24. FACU perforrmed satisfactorily its duties of coordinating fadama development in
the project states. F'roject facilitation training (PFT) was conducted for the core states,
and later for the bifurcated states, and a mini-PFT for the facility states.  FACU
coordinated the MTR of the project, participated in all the World Bank supervision
missions and helped to resolve implementation problems during such missions.
Comprehensive supzrvision missions on a regional basis, implementation assistance
missions to address specific program issues in the ADPs, and training workshops were
also major tools for project coordination.   The other achievements include:
(a) simplification of washboring through jetting such that tubewells are drilled only
where the cheaper washbore is not technically feasible; (b) preparation of technical
specifications for wells and pumps such that farmers preference and field evaluation of
pumps are taken into consideration; (c) development of guidelines for pricing of pumps
and wells; (d) design, supervision and certification of civil works; (e) development of
curriculum for FUA training in collaboration with the International Fund for Education
and Self Help (IFES]H); and (f) hosting the NFFCC secretariat.
25. FACU conducted the environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the northern
states in 1991 as a condition for loan effectiveness and that for the southern and middle
belt states in 1994. The study on pastoralist/farmer conflict was completed in 1998 but
that on the potential for irrigation by recharge of fadama through flood control was not
conducted. The study on fadama marketing was concluded in 1998 while that on the
local manufacture of-pumps is expected to be concluded by February 1999.
26.  For most of the project life, FACU operated under severe constraints of inadequate
FGN funding, poor logistic support for staff, inadequate technical staffing in some
regions, low expenditure limits for the management, delays in the approval of proposals,
and heavy work load arising from an increase in the number of ADPs and other
responsibilities placed on the unit. In two major areas, FACU's performance was not
very satisfactory: (a) allowing states which did not meet key eligibility criteria such as the
conduct of aquifer study to participate in the facility; and (b) delays in reimbursement
from the centralizecd special account. This second area has witnessed improvement
recently with the streamlining of the SOE process and the technical assistance given the
ADPs to improve loan drawdown.
27.  The FMWRRD achieved the objective of developing monitoring systems for
sustainable fadama development though the implementation was affected by delayed
take-off. The major achievements include: (a) establishment of a network of 150 special
observation wells in the core states; (b) establishment of 30 meteorological stations;
(c) construction of 50 hydrological stations whose equipment are expected to be installed
by the end of Januaty 1999; (d) formulation of guidelines for the sound management of
surface and ground water resources; (e) training of ADP staff on the management of the
meteorological stations and monitoring of shallow aquifer levels by the FUAs; and
(f) establishment of ea data base.
28. Some of the constraints of the FMWRRD implementing unit include poor initial
commitment of the Ministry that led to a three-year delay in project take-off, inadequate
counterpart funding and delays in obtaining duty exemptions and clearing goods at the



- 33 -
ports. Some issues that have arisen from implementation experience include: (a) the
inability of the core ADPs to monitor 10% of the tubewells constructed and the
implications of this for representativeness of the FUA data; (b) delays in release of the
analyses of the data to the ADPs by the FMWRRD and hence the reduced value of the
analyses in effecting corrective measures. It was agreed that the ADPs would receive the
reports by the end of January 1999; and (c) the coverage of the facility states. It was
agreed that training would be organized in four zones for staff of these states before the
end of March 1999.
Achievement of Objectives in the National Fadama Facility
29. The NFFCC was constituted in 1994 and merged in 1995 with the Agricultural
Technology Support Facility Coordinating Committee (ATSFCC) to form the
Agricultural Technology Support and National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee
(ATSNFFCC). The ATSFCC approved the appraisal reports of the three tranches of the
facility in 1996.  The NFFCC Secretariat was also constituted and its activities
coordinated by FACU. The Secretariat successfully appraised the states for the facility,
coordinated the supervision missions, and organized various workshops and meetings to
facilitate implementation. The Secretariat also procured some vehicles, equipment and
civil works for its operations. There were complaints, however, by the Secretariat that
the issue of procurement no-objections to the states by the Bank without informing the
Secretariat made coordination more difficult and could lead to a problem of
overcommitment at the end of the program.
30.  The take-off of the program was unduly delayed. The special account for the
program was not opened until 1996 because of delay in selecting the bank. The FMANR
also delayed its approval of the second and third tranche states to sign the subsidiary loan
agreements until March 1998. In retrospect, the NFFCC should have been more cautious
in approving the participation of all the states, some without even meeting the key
eligibility criteria.
31.  The facility assisted fadama development in the benefiting states through the
construction of 177 km. of access road and 9,021 wells, the procurement of 6,620 pumps
although less than 20% of the pumps had been distributed as at the time of the mission,
and the formation of 6,270 FUAs. The achievement would have been greater but for the
delay in the take-off of the program and in the award of contracts for wells and pumps,
slow disbursement process, and poor counterpart funding. The quality of performance of
the states was also affected by the last minute rush to execute the program before the
earlier closing date of September 30, 1998. Overall, the facility program has served as a
good pilot to expand fadama development beyond the traditional areas of Nigeria.
Awareness has been created of the potentials for dry season irrigated production, for
supplemental irrigation and greater crop production intensity. There is a great need in
the facility states for enlightenment of the FUAs on the principles of a full cost-recovery
program and the empowerment of the FUAs to handle fadama development with less
dependence on public resources.



- 34 -
Technology Support to Fadama Development
32. The NATSP provided adequate technology development and dissemination support
to fadama developnnent, especially in the core states. The adaptive research activities of
the ADPs led to improved technologies for water management, soil and water
conservation and the introduction of new fadama crops or varieties. Irish potato, garlic,
industrial sugarcane and fruit trees were introduced as part of the diversification strategy
to reduce the tomato and onion market glut experienced at harvest time in some places.
In Kebbi, the basal stem rot disease of onion that could reduce yield by 80%, was
combated. Pest scouting and pest and disease management using indigenous technology
were demonstrated. At the monthly technology review meetings (MTRM), increasing
attention was paid to the development of messages for fadama development. The
extension staff facillitated the identification of the FUAs, demonstrated the technologies
to the farmers during field visits and brought feedback to the technology development
system. Media support was also given to fadama development activities. Supervision of
field activities was, however, weak in some states and needs to be improved upon.
33.  Extension support to fadama development was weak in most of the facility states.
Staffing was generally inadequate, the funding of extension activities was very poor, and
the linkages between the fadama unit and the other sub-programs were weak. In some
cases, inadequately trained staff identified and formed the FUAs and advised the farmers.
Staff of the non-crop subsectors (fisheries, livestock and agro-forestry) hardly realized
the potentials offered by the fadama project for the mutual development of all the
subsectors. Provisions for better coordination of the sub-programs should be made a
condition for participation in future projects.
Environmental Conksiderations
34. The EIAs for the northern states and later for the middle belt and southern states
were conducted in 1991 and 1994, respectively. Reasonable care was taken in the core
states to focus project activities on fadama lands that are cultivated in the wet season also.
Soil and water analyses were done to monitor contamination. In isolated cases, where
signs of salinization were observed, the ADPs are training the FUAs on remedial
measures. Only 59%o of the FUA wells expected to be monitored (10% of all wells) are
currently being monitored. The ADPs need to improve their performance in this respect
to ensure that the dlata generated is truly representative. A few facility states also
undertook individual. EIAs but these were not fully processed to enable the states modify
the present project. Plateau's EIA, for instance, showed that pumping of water from
mine pits for irrigation was environmentally feasible.
35.  Weather data is being monitored through the 30 meteorological stations in the core
states and with the i:nstallation of the equipment for the 50 hydrological stations early in
1999, the hydraulic r elations between the shallow aquifer and surface water systems will
be monitored. The FMWRRD has also developed guidelines for the sound management
of the surface and ground water resources in the core states. A major concern is the
capacity of the FMWRRD to effectively regulate the use of water resources on the basis
of the monitoring activities, especially when there are no field officers of the ministry.



- 35 -
36.  Farmers in many of the facility states, and in some locations in the core states with
access to streams, expressed a desire for surface pumping which was not provided for in
this project because of its environmental category classification. For such development
to take place the EIAs done would need to be fully processed and a detailed EIA
conducted where this has not been done. In some facility states, there are a few cases of
new land clearing for fadama development, mainly because some of the tubewells have
been located without the benefit of a detailed aquifer study report or under political
pressure. The states were advised against future developments along these lines. Most of
the facility states also need to increase the training of the FUAs on sustainable soil and
water resources management practices.
37.  Pastoralist-farmer conflict was reported in some states (notably Bauchi and
Gombe), leading to the destruction of some tubewells. All the core states already have
Conflict Resolution Committees but these have to be made more functional through the
provision of transport and financial support. In 1998, widepread floods led to the
destruction of some project wells and infrastructure as well as farmers' crops. Attempts
were made by the various ADPs to liaise with the State Emergency Relief Agency to
provide some relief to affected FUA members. Overall, the level offadama development
in this project did not pose a serious threat to the environment.
Factors Affecting Project Performance
38.  Project performance was positively affected by: (a) farmers' acceptance of the
small-scale irrigation technologies promoted by the project; (b) the FUA group approach
which provided mutual support for the members and made service delivery easier; (c) the
FUA capacity building effort by the ADPs, FACU and APMEU; and (d) the high
profitability of fadama farming.
39. The factors that negatively affected performance include: (a) inadequate and
untimely counterpart funding; (b) delays in pump procurement and well drilling, partly
due to poor performance of some contractors; (c) delays in the approval of project
proposals by the ADPECs, Federal ADPEC (FADPEC) and the FMANR; (d) irregular
meetings of the ADPECs and FADPEC; (e) interference in project management,
especially in bid evaluations and contract awards, and by lowering management's
expenditure limits (f) inadequate enlightenment and involvement of the beneficiaries,
LGCs, NGOs and even staff in some states in project planning and implementation; and
(e) external factors arising from fuel scarcity, pastoralist-farmer and inter-community
conflicts, and floods.
Project Outcome and Sustainability
40.  The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory.  The objectives were
substantially met. The ERR calculation is yet to be finalized but the Borrower's figure of
about 38.5% compares favorably with the appraisal estimate of 24%. Awareness has
been created among policy makers and farmers that a cost-recovery small-scale irrigation
program is possible. The FUAs, ADPs and the federal supervising agencies have gained
considerable implementation experience that can improve future operations. The project



- 36 -
has developed skilled manpower for the management of such operations at the farm, state
and federal levels, and put in place a database for the monitoring of fadama development.
41.  The project benefits can be sustained if: (a) operation is made less dependent on
additional budget funds, by more rigorous cost recovery, enlightenment and training of
farmers, greater involvement of beneficiaries in planning, implementation and
maintenance (including LGCs), and the use of the escrow account for fadama
development after the loan; (b) the FUAs have direct transactions with the private sector
for pump procurement and well drilling, with the ADP facilitating the process through
technical advice, mnonitoring, credit liaison, etc.; (c) environmental monitoring and
regulation are fully enforced, especially if future development will involve surface
pumping, upland clearing, encroach into wetlands or other ecologically sensitive sites, or
increase conflicts between farmers, pastoralists and fishermen.
Bank and Borrower Performance
42. Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation was rated satisfactory.
Supervision of the core states was fairly regular and the state governments saw
supervision missions as useful in informing them about the true position of project
implementation. The Bank in future has to address the complaint by the Secretariat of
the NFFCC that it was sometimes not informed of the no-objections issued to the facility
states to allow for effective coordination.
43.  FGN support for the project was strong as evidenced by its support for project
extension, but its release of funds was inadequate and untimely. There is a need to revert
to the earlier arrangement whereby FGN funds to agricultural projects were released
twice a year in advance. The meetings of FADPEC were irregular and there were delays
by the FMANR in the approval of project proposals. The FMWRRD was initially not
committed and properly organized for the project leading to a three-year delay in the
take-off of the project. The technical support to the project by the federal units, APMEU,
FACU, FMWRRD and the NFFCC Secretariat was very helpful. There was considerable
variation in the counterpart funding support by the states. Funds in many states were
inadequate or released late and some states did not allow for deduction at source of the
counterpart funds. :Irregular meetings of the ADPEC also denied the ADPs the needed
support in some states.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
44.  The operational plans for the period 1999 to 2001 reflect the public costs required
for the implementing units to support fadama development - building the capacity of the
FUAs, providing extension support, monitoring the environment and fadana
development including pump and well procurement by the FUAs, and facilitating rural
infrastructure development and maintenance in collaboration with LGCs and other
agencies. The proposals for capital investments have been separated for the action of the
state and federal govermuents. Assurances were received from the governments of
continued support for fadama development.



- 37 -
45. The key lessons learned include: (a) the need to increase beneficiary participation
in the design, planning and implementation of future projects, to involve more closely
other stakeholders (LGCs, NGOs, private sector), and increase the sense of ownership
among the farmers especially for the infrastructure facilities provded by the project;
(b) the need to move cautiously to establish a foundation for sustainable development.
Basic eligibility criteria should be adhered to and beneficiaries, other stakeholders and
implementing staff should be adequately enlightened and trained on the key features and
underlying principles of the project; (c) the need for respect by the Borrower of loan
covenants related to expenditure limits of project management and for speedier approval
of project proposals by government; and (d) enshrinement of deduction of counterpart
funding at source as a condition for future projects.
Next Actions
46.  The following are the proposals for the delivery of the ICR:
01/31/99       Aide-memoire distributed
02/15/99       Circulate draft ICR for review within the Bank
04/15/99       Receive updated data from project agencies
04/30/99       Submit finalized draft to Borrower for review
05/21/99       Bank receives Borrower's comments and final
Borrower's ICR
06/15/99       Submit final ICR to Board
Abuja
January 25, 1999



Table 1: Achievement of all States in Tubewell Construction and Infrastructure Development (1993 - 1998) (
Wells          Pumps (No.)             Area     Access road     Marketing infrastructure (No.)
constructed           procu- distri-   cropped  constructed     FUA go-      Storage      Cooling shed/
(No.)                 red    buted    (Ha.) (c)  (Km.)          down         shed          cold store
State         T      A(b)     T       A       A       A        T       A      T      A      T     A      T      A    Remarks
Bauchi       9917   9225   9750    5389    4592    17070    163    151         1     1      0      0     0       0    Pumps '94 - '97
Gombe       4917    4552   2889   2329   2247    3632         143     81       1     1      0      0     0       0    t
Jigawa      8200    6156   9000    9000    5117    15124    76        50      18    18      8      8     1       1    Pumps '95 -'97
Kano        7000    6685   7000    7000    3733    15022    90        89      30    30      7      7     2       2 |
Kebbi       9060    8860   9060   10394   7108    36672        70     70      31    32      8      0     1       0    Pumps '94 - '96
Sokoto      3322    2189   3322    3302    1522    9132    39.4   25.6    23    23          6      6     0       0    Pumps '95
Zamfara     1773    733    1773    1773    653       3918    27.6   21.6      7      7      1      1     0       0
Sub-total    44189  38400  42794  39187   24972   100570   609   488.2   111   112   30    22            4       3
Core States
Facility    14477   9021   16698   6620    1295       12    216.1  176.8   N.A.  N.A   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.  N.A.
States
Total       58666  47421  59492  45807   26267   100582   825.1   665    111   112   30    22            4       3
Note:  (a) Targets set at appraisal were modified during the MTR including converting tubewells to washbores and vice versa, procuring more
pumps as a result of savings from lower pump price, and converting fadama roads to the cheaper access roads.
(b) 67.5% of the wells constructed were washbores.
(c) Based on pumps distributed. For core states average of I ha. per pump and cropping intensity of two.



- 39 -
Table 2: Achievement of the Facility States in Tubewell Construction and Infrastructure
Development (1996 - 1998) (a)
Wells           Pumps (No.)            Area cropped   Access road
constructed            procu- distri-  using facility   constructed
(No.)                   red    buted  (Ha.)           (Km.)
State          T       A       T       A      A      T(b)    A       T      A    Remarks
Abia          157      10      184     0       0     184      0      7      7
Adamawa       320      30     400     396    97    400        0     7.5     3    Pumps'98.
Akwa lbom    230      130     230    230       0     230      0      5      3
Anambra       260      24     305      0       0     305      0     15      15
Bayelsa       47      22      112      0      0      112      0     2.1    1.2
Benue         500     750     500    500    500    1000    0        15      10   Pumps '98
Borno        1950    288    2800    600        0    5600      0    23.5    10
Cross River   200      92     200      0       0     200      0     3.7   14.8
Delta         285     285     285    250       0     285      0      4     4.4
Ebonyi        50       0      171      0      0      171      0      3      3
Edo           260     260     305      0       0     305     0       4      4
Ekiti         127     125     129      129    65     129     0       3      3    Pumps '98
Enugu         132      66      150     0       0     150      0      2      2
FCT          2450    1850    2900    100    100   2900        0     26      0    Wells '98
Imo           256     21      210    210       0     210     0      2.6    4.9
Kaduna       1000    1000    1000      0       0    2000     0      13      13
Katsina       600     569     600    600       0     1200    0       6     6.9
Kogi          168     148     340     340     0      340      0      5     8.3
Kwara         368     368     397     397    64    397        0     6.4   11.7  Pumps '98
Lagos         393     62      226    220    10    226        12    3.7    3.5   Pumps '97/98
Nasarawa      682      10     682     517      0     1364     0      4      0



- 40 -
Table 2: Achievement of the Facility States in Tubewell Construction and
Infrastructure Development (Cont'd) '>
Wells           Pumps (No.)            Area cropped   Access road
constructed             procu- distri-  using facility   constructed
(No.)                  red    buted  (Ha.) )         (Km.)
State          T       A       T       A      A      T      A       T      A    Remark
Niger         321     316)    360    360    93    360        0     4.7    4.7   Pumps '98
Ogun          215     213    215    215    87    215         0      4      4    Pumps '98
Ondo          150     84      229    229      0     229      0     2.3     0    Funds for roads used for
additional pumps
Osun          230     230     294    294    219    294       0     7.5    7.5   Pumps '98
Oyo           250     179    267      150    18    267       0      6      6    Pumps '98
Plateau       769     32      769    583    42    1538    0         13     10   Pumps '98
Rivers        57      33      138      0      0      138     0     2.6    4.9
Taraba        300     29      300    300      0     300      0     4.5     0
Yobe         1750    1815    2000      0      0    4000    0        10     10
All          14477   9021   16698   6620   1295  25049   12   216.1  176.8  77.2% ofthe wells
constructed were
washbores
Note: (a) Targets set at appraisal were modified during implementation, including converting tubewells to
washbores and vice versa, procuring more pumps as a result of savings from lower pump price or using
the funds for roads, and converting fadama roads to the cheaper access roads.
(b) Based on pumps distributed. For first tranche facility states, average of I ha. per pump and cropping
intensity of two. For second and third tranche states, average of 0.5 ha. per pump and cropping intensity
of two.



Table 3: Achievement of all States in Institutional Development, Administration and Funding (1993-1998)
FUA training            % debt  Monitoring
FUAs (No.)               (No.)           Escrow   repay-   FUA   Soil/    Staff
regis-   mem-  mech-  account  ment   wells  water   trained  State funding    Federal           Loan drawdown
formed  tered    bers   anics   (Nm)    1997    (%)   analysis  (No.)   ($m)               funding ($m)   ($m)
(a)     (b)     (Ha.)  (c)
State          T       A        A       A      A        A        A       A       A        A       T       A       T      A       T        A
Bauchi        450     451      451    3252    267    42.90       99      31     2500     888    0.452   1.838  0.247   0.196    6.403  6.027
Gombe         200     211      94      711     54      18.12     91      22     1122     447    0.244   0.282   0.133   0.046    3.447  3.670
Jigawa        360     340      340    6000    179    45.90       50      57     8500     656    0.559   1.180   0.305   0.333    7.900  7.186
Kano          367     400      253    11407   790    52.29       20      63     2524    3124   0.410   1.001   0.220   0.376    5.800  6.403
Watari        38       38              N.A.   N.A.    N.A.    N.A.   N.A.   N.A.                0.559     "    0.305            7.900   7.000
Kebbi         630     1058    1058    5540    64       74.90     89      81    2000      201    0.530   0.228   0.290   0.223    7.500  9.141
Sokoto        128     187      187    14760   407    19.20       73      77      212     972    0.294   1.200  0.161   0.400   4.161   5.005
Zamfara       64       97       97     105    21       5.80      61      81      188     201    0.222   0.118   0.121   0.098    3.139   2.987
Core States   2237    2782    2480   41775   1782   259.11       69      59    10046    6489   3.270   5.847   1.782   1.672   46.250  47.419
Facility     4456    6270    3683    8056    293    16.55    N.A.   N.A.   N.A.    2984   1.329  4.036   1.825   0.830   11.522  6.536
States
Toa          6693    9052    6163   49831   2075   275.66        69      59    10046   9473   4.599   9.883   3.616   2.502   57.772   53.955
Note: (a) Amount received as percent of total payments due.
(b) FUA wells being monitored as percent of expected number of wells to be monitored (10% of all wells)
(c) Short-term courses only, local and overseas.



Table 4: Achievement of the Facility States in Institutional Development, Administration and funding (1996-1998)
FUA training
FUAs (No.)              (No.)           Escrow   Staff    ADPEC                                   Loan
Regis-  em-   mech-  account  trained   meetings   State funding   Federal       drawdown
formed  treed    bers   anics   (Nm)    (No.)   (No.)        ($m)           funding ($m)   ($m)
State         T       A        A       A      A        A        A      T    A      T      A       T      A       T     A ()
Abia          108     120      72      62      0     0.000      37     12   2   0.017  0.060  0.024  0.019  0.149  0.039
Adamawa       150     137     123     150    50      0.760      5      12    0   0.025  0.019  0.034  0.032  0.214  0.086
Akwa Ibom    230      138      47      14      0     0.410      15     12    8   0.018  0.003  0.025  0.003  0.159  0.054
Anambra       110     74       43     180      0     0.420      96     12   2   0.021  0.076  0.028  0.020  0.180  0.081
Bayelsa       180     194      77      30      0     0.000      26      8    0   0.009  0.008  0.013  0.008  0.081   0.000
Benue         25      65       42     144      0     1.100     116    12    5   0.068  0.027  0.094  0.027  0.594  0.381                 4s
Bomo          72      232     232    485       0     0.200      176    12    3   0.141  0.050  0.193   0.072   1.219  0.618
Cross River   200     127      56      0       0     0.168      66     12    1   0.016  0.029  0.022   0.029  0.137  0.042
Delta         80      55       36      15      0     0.298     212    12   2   0.023  0.118  0.032  0.008  0.202  0.122
Ebonyi        59      16       0       0       0     0.000      0       8    1   0.014  0.000  0.019  0.016  0.119  0.060
Edo           26       13      6       8       0     0.000      10     12    3   0.021  0.012  0.029  0.007  0.181  0.096
Ekiti         120     135      42     540      0     0.676      5       8    2   0.009  0.029  0.012  0.005  0.077  0.043
Enugu        400      139      88     110      0     0.000      55     12    2   0.011  0.010  0.015  0.004  0.092  0.064
FCT           120     255     150    165       0     1.520     228    12   2   0.330  1.715  0.452  0.246  2.858  2.121
Imo          200      231     200    397       0     0.000      98     12   6   0.016  0.059  0.022  0.020  0.137  0.058
Kaduna       300      300     250    276       0     3.034      109    12   7   0.078  0.189  0.106  0.013  0.674  0.376
Katsina      649      649     620     100    15    0.444        9      12   2   0.045  0.308  0.062  0.052  0.391   0.074
Kogi          20      112      54     157      0     0.022      77     12    1   0.027  0.025  0.037  0.032  0.236  0.149



Table 4: Achievement of the Facility States in Institutional Development, Administration and Funding (Cont'd)
FUA training
FUAs (No.)               (No.)          Escrow   Staff     ADPEC
regis-   mem- mech-  account  trained   meetings   State funding   Federal         Loan drawdown
formed  tered    bers   anics   (Nm)    (No.)   (No.)         ($m)           funding ($m)   ($m)
State         T        A       A       A       A       A         A       T    A      T      A       T      A       T        A
Kwara         80      209      164    539      4      0.745      0      12    6   0.028  0.022  0.038  0.037   0.239    0.217
Lagos         175      76      76      96      0      0.281     232     12    3   0.017  0.176  0.024  0.039   0.151    0.113
Nasarawa      21      294      150    562      10     0.347     293      8    0   0.040  0.044  0.055  0.021   0.347    0.166
Niger        200      200      135     197     0      1.093      1      12    2   0.025  0.116  0.034  0.008   0.216    0.182
Ogun          120     106      16      540     0      1.427      5      12    1   0.017  0.032  0.024  0.006   0.149    0.130
Ondo          179     156      87      198     0      0.230      7      12    2   0.012  0.103  0.017  0.007   0.105    0.060
Osun          100     397      36     1187    20      0.750      5      12    1   0.019  0.149  0.026  0.008   0.162    0.068
Oyo           80       50      50      260    143    0.281       12     12    2   0.017  0.024  0.023  0.008   0.147    0.062
Plateau       23      1135    285    1134      0      0.800     648     12    2   0.049  0.120  0.067  0.026   0.424    0.198
Rivers        199     199      125     100    30      0.275      95     12    0   0.011   0.012  0.016  0.007   0.099    0.000
Taraba        150     106      71       0      0      0.031     301     12    1   0.021   0.065  0.029  0.014   0.184    0.077
Yobe          80      350      350     410    21      1.240      45     12    9   0.184  0.348  0.253   0.036   1.599    0.798
All          4456    6270    3683    8056   293    16.552    2984    344   78   1.329  4.036  1.825  0.830   11.522   6.536



- 44 -
Table 5: Achievement of the Federal Agencies
APMEU              FACU             FMWRRD                Total
Item                  T        A         T        A         T         A        T        A
FGN funding
(US$m)               0.739    0.163    0.503    0.829    0.626    0.238    1.868       1.230
+ operating cost                                                             0.278
2.146
Loan drawdown
(US$m                1.050    1.112    4.500    5.556    2.400    2.328    7.950       8.996
+ operating cost                                                             1.100     1.134
+ unallocated                                                                0.600     0.000
9.650    10.130
Studies done (No.)     6        4        5         4        2         2        13       10
Consultancy
(man months)
- experts              0        0       120       197       48       30       168       227
- studies             24       43        34       66        36        8        94       117
Staff trained (No.)
- local               76       25        42       30        0         0       118       55
- overseas            19       17        20       10       N.S.       7        39       34
Courses for ADP       36       30       N.S.       6       N.S.       1        36       37
staff (No.)
Procurement (No.)
- vehicles           N.S.      14       N.S.       8       N.S.       16      N.S.      38
- computers          N.S.       7       N.S.      31       N.S.      22       N.S.      60
Note: N.S. = Target not specified.



Appendix B
NIGERIA: NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operational Plans (April 1999 - December 2001)
Note: At the state level, the plans provide for support to the FUAs (training, loan recovery), extension and monitoring; partnership and cost sharing between FUAs, LGCs and the
State in road construction and maintenance; and maintenance by the FUAs of the wells and pumps provided under the project. There is no provision for new wells and pumps, capital
projects, administrative costs and personnel overheads. At the federal level, the minimum assistance required to be given the states is considered. Capital projects, administrative
overheads and personnel are also not included. Proposals for the funding of the excluded items may be submitted separately to the federal and state governments.
Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                     Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total        1999        2000       2001        Total
01 Bauchi ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          223.12
1 Access road construction                Km               15          10           5         30        9.00        6.00        3.00       18.00
2 Access road maintenance                 Km              151         166         176        493         9.06       9.96       10.56       29.58
3 Maintenance ofpumps and wells           No.            9225        9225       9225       27,675       41.51      41.51       41.51      124.53
4 FUA Support - Supervision visits        No.             451         560         700       1,711        5.41       6.72        8.40       20.53
- Training/Study tours      No.           1,514       1,683       2,190      5,387        4.91        4.32        3.64       12.87
5 Research and Extension Support
OFAR/Crop introduction/MTP/SPAT       No.              61          69          87        217           0         1.05        1.20       2.25
Media support                        Lump               I           I           1           3          0        0.97         1.33       2.30
6 PME  - Baseline (RID)                   No.               1           0           0           1        0.40          0           0        0.40
- CAYS/Farm budget               No.               2           2          2           6        0.36        0.45        0.56        1.37
- Studies/surveys                No.               2           3          3           8        0.52        0.09        0.19        2.56
- Soil/water analysis            No.             No.       1,500       1,500       1,500        1.46       2.73        4.55        8.73
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                              223.12
FUAs - Subtotal                                                                                                                        142.02
- Road construction (15%)                                                                                                          2.70
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                          14.79
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                        124.53
LGCs - Subtotal                                                                                                                         21.09
- Road construction (35%)                                                                                                          6.30
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                          14.79
Federal Grant                                                                                                                           20.01
State Grant                                                                                                                             40.00



Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                     Unit           1999        2000       2001        Total       1999        2000        2001       Total
02 Gombe ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          117.39
1 Access road maintenance                 Km.              81          81          81        243        4.86        4.86        4.86       14.58
2 Agro-proccssingEquipment                No.              50          50           0         100        2.50       2.50           0        5.00
3 Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.            4552        4552        455M 13,5              9048       20 48       20.48       61.44
4 FUA Support - Group formation/visit     No.             280         280         280        840         1.50        1.50        1.50       4.50
- Training/Study tours      No.             908        903         903       2,714       4,270       4,020       4,020       12.31
5 Research and Extension Support
OFAR/Crop introduction/MTP/SPA'I      No.            690         582         579       1,851          0         1.48        1.50       2.98
Media support                        Lump               I           I           1           3          0         1.82        1.92       3.74
6 PME - Equipment                        Lump               I           I           1           3        0.60        0.20       0.10        0.90
- Planning & Monitoring           No.              25          25          25         75         1.43        1.56       1.69        4.68
- CAYS/Farm budget                No.               2           2           2          6         0.36       0.40        0.44        1.20
- Studies/surveys                 No.              16          14          14         44         2.14       0.89        0.93        3.96
- Soil/water analysis              No.            400         400        400        1,200        0.60       0.70        0.80        2.10
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                              117.39
FUAs - Subtotal                                                                                                                         73.73
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                           7.29
- Agro-processing equipment                                                                                                        5.00
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                         61.44
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                            7.29
Federal Grant                                                                                                                           12.12
State Grant                                                                                                                             24.25



Physical Target                                Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                    Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total       1999        2000       2001        Total
03 Jigawa ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                         98.21
1 Access road maintenance                Km.              50          50         50         150        3.00       3.00        3.00        9.00
2 Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.           6,156      6,156       6,156      18,468      27.70       27.70      27.70       83.10
3 FUA Support - Supervision visits       Lump              I           I           1          3        0.60        0.60       0.60        1.80
- Training/Studytours      No.             951         116        116       1,183        0.90       0.35        0.35        1.60
4 Research and Extension Support
OFAR/Crop introduction/MTP/SPAT       No.           3,060      3,060       3,060       9,180          0        0.68        0.68       1.36
Media support                        Lump               I          I           1          3           0        0.10       0.10        0.20
5 PME  - Baseline survey                  No.              1           0          0           1        0.02          0           0        0.02
- Physical monitoring            No.              2           2          2           6        0.10        0.10       0.10        0.30
- CAYS/Farm budget               No.              4           4          4          12        0.05        0.05       0.05        0.15
- Studies/surveys                No.             15          12          13         40        0.34        0.02       0.14        0.50
- Soil/water analysis           Lump              I           1           1          3        0.06        0.06       0.06        0.18
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                             98.21
FUAs - Subtotal                                                                                                                        87.6
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                         4.50
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                       83.10
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                          4.50
Federal Grant                                                                                                                          2.00
State Grant                                                                                                                            4.11



Physical Target                                Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                    Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total       1999        2000        2001       Total
04 Kano ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                         98.01
1 Access road maintenance                Km.              44          65         90         199        1.05        1.05       0.60        2.70
2 Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.            6685        6685       6685      20.055       30.10       30.10      30.10       90.30
3 rUi-A SuppoIL - Supcrvision             I No.           40          At         30         1!0        0.20        0.5        0.05        Q50
- Training/Study tours     No.              81         141        103         326        0.78       0.88        0.62        2.28
4 Research and Extension Support         Lump               I          I           1          3           0        0.03       0.04        0.07
5 PME  - Scheduled reports                No.              4           4          4          12        0.06        0.06       0.06        0.18
- Monitoringvisits               No.              4           4          4          12        0.10        0.10       0.10        0.30
- Planning                      No.               2           2          2           6        0.04        0.04       0.04        0.12
- Studies/surveys               No.              11          10          10         31        1.22        0.17       0.17        1.56
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                             98.01
FUAs - Subtotal                                                                                                                       91.65
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                         1.35
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                       90.30
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                          1.35
Federal Grant                                                                                                                          1.67
State Grant                                                                                                                            3.34



Physical Target                                Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                   Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total       1999       2000        2001       Total
05 Kebbi ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                      169.50
I Access road construction               Km.             10          15         15         40        5.50        8.00       8.50       22.00
2 Access road maintenance                Km.             70          80         95         245        4.20       4.80        5.70      14.70
3 Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.           8,860      8,860       8,860     26,580       39.87      39.87      39.87      119.61
4 FUA Support - Staff training           No.             149        259        293         701        1.18       1.54        1.44       4.16
- Mechanics training       No.              15         20         30          65        0.02       0.02        0.02       0.06
5 Research and Extension Support
OFAR/Crop introduction/MTP/SPAT      No.           2,139      2,429       3,113      7,681        0.52       0.59        0.95       2.06
Others                              Lump               I          I           1          3        0.53       0.62        0.66       1.81
6 PME  - CAYS/Farm budget                No.              2           2          2           6        0.20       0.23        0.23       0.66
- Studies/surveys               No.               1          3          2           6        0.08       1.08        0.48       1.64
- Scheduled reports             No.              19         19         20          58        0.50       0.50        1.00       2.00
- Soil/water analysis           No.               0          2          0           2          0        0.80          0        0.80
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                          169.50
FUAs - Subtotal                                                                                                                    130.26
- Road construction (15%)                                                                                                      3.30
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                       7.35
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                    119.61
LGCs - Subtotal                                                                                                                     15.05
- Road construction (35%)                                                                                                       7.7
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                       7.35
Federal Grant                                                                                                                        8.06
State Grant                                                                                                                         16.13



Physical Target                                Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                    Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total       1999        2000       2001        Total
06 Sokoto ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                         62.58
I Access road construction               Km.               0          10         15          25          0        6.00        9.00       15.00
2 Access road maintenance                Km.              26          26         36          88        1.56        1.56       2.16        5.28
M    .VIOIldlior UI pUI[ijJ S iiu wkb                            2          O  lQO 28                95         9R.5        9 R5       29.52
4 FUA Support - Various                  Lump               I          I           1          3        0.76        0.35       0.34        1.45
- Training                 No.             281         281        280         642        1.06       0.99        0.97        3.02
5 Research and Extension Support                                                                                                          0.07
OFAR/Crop introduction/MTP/SPAT       No.            922        1,532      1,857      4,311        0.78        1.28        1.68       3.74
Development of irrigation schedule    No.              3           3           3          9        0.04        0.05       0.05        0.14
6 PME  - CAYS/Parm budget                 No.              2           2          2           6        0.24        0.23       0.24        0.71
- Studies/surveys                No.               1          3          2           6        0.21        0.32       0.15        0.68
- Scheduled reports              No.             20          20         20          60        0.36        0.36       0.36        1.08      o
- Soil/water analysis           Lump               I          I           1          3        0.20        0.88       0.88        1.96
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                             62.58
FUAs - Subtotal                                                                                                                       34.41
- Road construction (15%)                                                                                                        2.25
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                         2.64
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                       29.52
LGCs - Subtotal                                                                                                                        7.89
- Road construction (35%)                                                                                                        5.25
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                         2.64
Federal Grant                                                                                                                          6.76
State Grant                                                                                                                           13.52



Physical Target                                Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                    Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total        1999       2000        2001       Total
07 Zamfara ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                         20.39
1 Access road maintenance                Km.              22          22         22          66        1.32        1.32       1.32        3.96
2 Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.            733         733        733       2,199        3.30        3.30       3.30        9.90
3 FUA Support - Loan recovery            Lump              I           I           1          3        0.30        0.30       0.30        0.90
- Training                 No.              97          48        148         353        0.63        0.74       0.96        2.33
4 Research and Extension Support
OFAR/Crop introduction/MTP/SPAT       No.            809         815         919       2,543       0.42        0.48        0.55       1.45
5 PME  - CAYS/Farm budget                 No.              2           2          2           6        0.14        0.15       0.15        0.44
- Studies/surveys                No.              3           2          2           7        0.14        0.30       0.76        1.20
- Baseline (RID)                 No.              0           0           1          1           0          0        0.21        0.21
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                             20.39
FUAs - Subtotal                                                                                                                       11.88       en
- Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                         1.98
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                        9.90
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                          1.98
Federal Grant                                                                                                                          2.18
State Grant                                                                                                                            4.35



Physical Target                                Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                   Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total       1999       2000        2001       Total
08 Abia ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                       15.31
1 Access road maintenance                Km.              7           7          7         21        0.42        0.42       0.42        1.26
2  Maintenanceofpumpsandwells            No.             10          10          10         30        0.05       0.05        0.05       0.15
3  FUASupport                           Lump               I          I          i                    i.O        i.iu       i.5         3.70
4  Research and Extension Support       Lump               I          I           1          3        1.07       1.41        1.62       4.10
5  PMESupport                           Lump               I          I           1          3        2.43       1.54        2.13       6.10
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                           15.31
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                        0.63
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                      0.15
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                        0.63
Federal Grant                                                                                                                        4.63
State Grant                                                                                                                          9.27       LA
09 Adamawa ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                        7.67
1 Access road maintenance                Km.              3           7         12          22        0.18       0.42       0.72        1.32
2  Access road construction              Km.              4           5          5          14        0.45       0.50        0.50       1.45
3  Maintenanceofpumpsandwells            No.             30          30         30          90        0.14       0.14        0.14       0.42
4  FUA Support                          Lump               I          I           1          3        0.26       0.26        0.26       0.78
5  Research and Extension Support       Lump               I          I           1          3        1.00       1.00        1.00       3.00
6  PME Support                          Lump               I          I           1          3        0.15       0.25        0.30       0.70
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                             7.67
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                               0.88
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                       0.42
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                1.17
Federal Grant                                                                                                                         1.73
State Grant                                                                                                                          3.47



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total        1999       2000         2001       Total
10 Akwa Ibom ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               14.37
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.               3           5           7           15        0.18        0.30        0.42        0.90
2  Access road construction                Km.                2           2           2           6        0.50        0.50        0.50        1.50
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              130         130         130         390        0.59        0.59        0.59        1.77
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           1           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.40        1.40        1.40        4.20
6  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                  14.37
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                       1.13
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              1.77
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                      0.98
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               3.50
State Grant                                                                                                                                 6.99
11 Anambra ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               9.71
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.              15           15         15          45         0.90        0.90        0.90        2.70
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              24           24          24          72        0.11        0.11        0.11        0.33
3  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.87        1.01        1.14        3.02
4  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00         1.00       1.00        3.00
5  PME Support                            Lump                            1           1           3        0.07        0.25        0.34        0.66
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   9.71
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                                1.35
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              0.33
lIGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               1.35
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               2.23
State Grant                                                                                                                                 4.45



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total        1999       2000         2001       Total
12 Bayelsa ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               12.02
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.              1.2         3.2         5.2         3.6        0.12        0.32        0.52        0.96
2  Access road construction                Km.                2           2           2           6        0.74        0.74        0.88        2.36
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              22          22           22          66        0.10(       0.10        0.iO        0.30
4  FtJA Support                           Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.05        1.10        3.15
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        0.90        1.10        0.95        2.95
6  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        0.70        0.60        2.30
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   12.02
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                      0.83
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              0.30
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                      1.31
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               3.19
State Grant                                                                                                                                 6.39
13 Benue ADP
A. Application of Fund- Total                                                                                                               52.70
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.              10          90          170        270         0.60        5.40       10.20       16.20
2  Access road construction                Km.               80          80          80         240        5.30        5.30        5.30        15.90
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.             750         750         750        2,250        3.38        3.38        3.38        10.14
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.71        0.61        0.62         1.94
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           1           1           3        0.62        0.62        0.62         1.86
6  PMEI Support                           Lump                I           I           1           3        2.30        2.43         1.93       6.66
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   52.70
IFUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                     10.49
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                             10.14
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                      13.67
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                6.13
State Grant                                                                                                                                 12.27



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total        1999       2000         2001       Total
14 Borno ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                              28.19
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.              10           10         1o          30         0.60        0.60        0.60        1.80
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.             288         288         288         864         1.30        1.30        1.30        3.90
3  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.14        1.14        1.14        3.42
4  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        5.81        6.05        5.35       17.21
5  PME Support                            Lump                1           1           1           3        0.62        0.62        0.62        1.86
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                  28.19
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               0.90
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              3.90
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               0.90
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                 7.5
Ul
State Grant                                                                                                                                14.99        Un
15 Cross River ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               14.61
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.             14.8        15.8        16.8        47.4        0.89        0.95        1.01        2.85
2  Access road construction                Km.                I           1           1           3        0.75        0.75        0.75        2.25
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              92           92          92         276        0.41        0.41        0.41        1.23
4  FIJA Support                           Lump                I           I           1           3        0.26        0.26        0.26        0.78
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        0.73        0.73        0.73        2,19
6  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.77        1.77         1.77       5.31
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                  14.61
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                       1.77
- P'ump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                             1.23
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                      2.21
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               3.13
State Grant                                                                                                                                 6 27



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                      Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total        1999        2000        2001       Total
16 Delta ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                              23.78
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.               4           8           12         24         0.24        0.48        0.72        1.44
2  Access road construction                Km.                4           4          14          22        2.00        2.00        7.00       11.00
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.             285         285         285          855        1.28        1.28        1.28        3.84
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           1           1           3        0.81        0.81        0.81        2.43
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
6  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.69        0.69        0.69        2.07
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                  23.78
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                      2.37
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              3.84
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                       4.57
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               4.33
State Grant                                                                                                                                  8.67
17 Ebonyi ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               14.54
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.               3            9          17           9        0.18        0.54        1.02        1.74
2  Access road construction                Km.                6           8           8          22         1.80       2.40        2.40        6.60
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.                0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.20        0.05        0.05        0.30
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           1           1           3        1.00        1.00         1.00       3.00
6  I'ME Support                           Lump                I           I           1           3        0.90         1.00        1.00       2,90
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   14.54
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (I5)                                                                                                       2.73
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                                 0
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                       3.30
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                2.84
State Grant                                                                                                                                  5.67



Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001       Total        1999        2000        2001       Total
18 Edo ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                            10.68
I  Access road maintenance                Km.               4           4           4          12        0.24        0.24        0.24        0.72
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.             260         260         260         780         1.17        1.17        1.17       3.51
3  FUA Support                            Lump               I           I           1          3        0.82        0.82        0.82        2.46
4  Research and Extension Support         Lump               I           I           1          3         1.00        1.00        1.00       3.00
5  PME Support                            Lump               I           I           1          3        0.33        0.33        0.33        0.99
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                10.68
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                             0.36
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                            3.51
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                             0.36
Federal Grant                                                                                                                             2.15
State Grant                                                                                                                               4.30
19 Ekiti ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                             10.53
I  Access road maintenance                Km.               3           3           3           9        0.30        0.30        0.30        0.90
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.              125         125        125         375        0.56        0.56        0.56        1.68
4  FUA Support                            Lump               I           I           1          3         0.29       0.17        0.22        0.68
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump               I           I           1          3         1.02       0.94        1.05        3.01
6  PME Support                            Lump               I           I           1          3         1.18        1.44        1.64       4.26
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                 10.53
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                             0.45
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                            1.68
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                             0.45
Federal Grant                                                                                                                             2.65
State Grant                                                                                                                               5.30



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total       1999        2000        2001        Total
20 Enugu ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               9.24
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.               2           10         20          32         0.12        0.60        1.20        1.92
2  Access road construction                Km.                8          10          10          28        0.16        0.31        0.31        0.78
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              66          66          66          198        0.30        0.30        0.30        0.90
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.41        0.41        0.41        1.23
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
6  PME Support                            Lump                1           1           1           3        0.47        0.47        0.47        1.41
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   9.24
FOAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                       1.08
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              0.90
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                      1.23
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               2.01        00
State Grant                                                                                                                                 4.02
21 FCT ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                             109.66
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.               0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
2  Access road construction                Km.                7           6           7          20        8.63        7.40        8.63       24.67
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.             1850        1850        1850       5,550        8.33        8.33        8.33       24.99
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        5.00        5.00        5.00       15.00
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        6.00        6.00        6.00       18.00
6  PME Support                            L ump               I           I           1           3        9.00        9.00        9.00       27.00
B. Sources of Fund - TIotal                                                                                                                 109.66
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                       3.70
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                             24.99
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                      8.63
Federal Grant                                                                                                                              24.11
Federal Capital Grant                                                                                                                      48.22



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total        1999        2000        2001       Total
22 Imo ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               5.14
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.               5           5           5           15        0.30        0.30        0.30        0.90
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              21          21          21           63        0.09        0.09        0.10        0.28
3  FUA Support                            Lump                I           1           1           3        0.60        0.60        0.60        1.80
4  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           1           1           3        0.33        0.33        0.33        0.99
5  PMF. Support                           Lump                I           I           1           3        0.39        0.39        0.39        1.17
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   5.14
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               0.45
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              0.28
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               0.32
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               1.36
State Grant                                                                                                                                 2.73       un
23 Kaduna ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                              24.84
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.              13          13          13          39         0.78        0.78        0.78        2.34
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.            1,000       1,000       1,000       3,000        4.50        4.50        4.50       13.50
3  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
4  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
5  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                  24.84
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                                1.17
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                             13.50
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               I 17
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               3 00
State Grant                                                                                                                                 6.00



Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                    Unit           1999        2000        2001       Total       1999        2000       2001        Total
24 Katsina ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          17.94
l  Access road maintenance               Km.                7          7           7         21         0.42       0.42        0.42        1.26
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.             569        569         569       1,707        2.56        2.56       2.56        7.68
3  FUA Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00       3.00
4  Research and Extension Support        Lump               I           I          1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00       3.00
S  PME Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        1.00        1.00       1.00        3.00
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                              17.94
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                           1.78
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                          7.68
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                           1.78
Federal Grant                                                                                                                           2.23
State Grant                                                                                                                             4.47       o
25 Kogi ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          12.69
1  Access road maintenance                Km.             8.3        13.3       18.3        39.6        0.50       0.80        1.10        2.40
2  Access road construction               Km.               5          5           5          15        1.50        1.65        1.75       4.90
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.             148         148        148         444        0.67        0.67       0.67        2.01
4  FUA Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        0.25        0.25       0.25        0.75
5  Research and Extension Support        Lump               I           I          1           3        0.53        0.57       0.60        1.70
6  PME Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        0.29        0.31       0.33        0.93
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                              12.69
FUJAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                  1.94
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                          2.01
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                  2.92
Federal Grant                                                                                                                           1.94
State Grant                                                                                                                             3.88



Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                     Unit           1999       2000        2001       Total       1999        2000        2001       Total
26 Kwara ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          19.23
I  Access road maintenance                Km.            11.7        11.7       11.7       35.10        0.70       0.70        0.70        2.10
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.             386        386         386       1,158        1.74        1.74        1.74       5.22
3  FUA Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        2.03        2.03       2.03        6.09
4  Research and Extension Support        Lump               I           I          1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00       3.00
S  PME Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        0.94        0.94       0.94        2.82
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                              19.23
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                           1.05
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                          5.22
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                           1.05
Federal Grant                                                                                                                           3.97
State Grant                                                                                                                             7.94
27 Lagos ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          11.36
1  Access road maintenance                Km.             3.5         3.5        3.5        10.5        0.35       0,35        0.35        1.05
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.              62         62          62         186        0.28        0.28       0.28        0.84
3  FUA Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        1.56        1.56        1.56       4.68
4  Research and Extension Support        Lump               I           I          1           3        0.81        0.81       0.81        2.43
5  PME Support                           L.ump              I           I          1           3        1.12        0.62       0.62        2.36
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                              11.36
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                           0.53
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                          0.84
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                           0.52
Federal Grant                                                                                                                           3.16
State Grant                                                                                                                             6.31



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total       1999        2000        2001        Total
28 Nasarawa ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                                7.65
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.               0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.               10          10          10          30        0.05        0.05        0.05        0.15
3   UA Support                            L.ump               I           1           1           3        0.50        0.50        0.50         1.50
4  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
5  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                    7.65
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                                  0
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              0.15
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                                  0
Federal Grant                                                                                                                               2.50
State Grant                                                                                                                                 5.00
29 Niger ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                              24.40
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.              4.7         6.7         8.7        20.1        0.28        0.40        0.52         1.20
2  Access road construction                Km.                2           2           2           6        1.60        1.60        1.60        4.80
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.             316          316         316         948        1.42        1.42        1.42        4.26
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        2.10        2.10        2.10        6.30
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
6  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        1.70        1.74         1.40       4.84
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                  24.40
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                       1.32
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              4.26
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                       2.28
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                5.51
State Grant                                                                                                                                 11.03



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total       1999        2000        2001        Total
30 Ogun ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                                9.32
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.               4           4           4           12        0.24        0.24        0.24        0.72
2  Maintcnance of pumps and wells          No.             213         213         213          639        0.96        0.96        0.96        2.88
3  FUA Support                            Lump                I           1           1           3        0.63        0.71        0.79        2.13
4  Research and Extension Support         L ump               I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
5  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.14        0.20        0.25        0.59
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   9.32
FUAs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               0.36
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              2.88
LGCs - Road maintenance (50%)                                                                                                               0.36
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                1.91
State Grant                                                                                                                                 3.81
31 Ondo ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               15.55
l  Access road maintenance                 Km.               0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              84          84           84        252         0.38        0.38        0.38         1.14
3  FtJA Support                           Lump                I           I           1           3        0.57        0.70        0.96        2.23
4  Research and Extension Support          Lump               I           I           1           3        3.23        3.67        4.04       10.94
5  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.39        0.43        0.42         1.24
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   15.55
FlJAs - Road maintenance                                                                                                                       0
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              1.14
LGCs - Road maintcnance                                                                                                                        0
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                4.80
State Grant                                                                                                                                  9.61



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N in)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total        1999       2000        2001        Total
32 Osun ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               18.04
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.              7.5         8.5         9.5        24.5        0.45        0.51        0.57        1.53
2  Access road construction                Km.                I           I           1           3        0.45        0.48        0.48         1.41
3  Maintenance ofpumps and wells           No.             230         230         230          690        1.04        1.04        1.04        3.12
4  FUA Support                            L.ump               I           I           1           3        2.05        3.06        3.06        8.17
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                1           1           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
6  PME Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.24        0.27        0.30        0.81
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   18.04
FtJAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                      0.98
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              3.12
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr, (35)                                                                                                       1.26
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                4.23
State Grant                                                                                                                                  8.45
33 Oyo ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                               15.97
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.               6           9           12         27         0.36        0.54        0.72        1.62
2  Access road construction                Km.                3           3           4          10        0.10        0.10        0.12         0.32
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              179         179         179         537        0.81        0.81        0.81        2.43
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.93        0.93        0.94         2.80
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        2.20        2.20        2.20        6.60
6  PME Support                            Lump                i           I           1           3        0.73        0.73        0.74        2.20
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   15.97
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                       0.86
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              2.43
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                       0.92
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                3.92
State Grant                                                                                                                                  7.84



Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                    Unit           1999        2000        2001       Total       1999        2000        2001       Total
34 Plateau ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          84.13
I  Access road maintcnance                Km.              10         28          51          89        0.60        1.68       3.06        5.34
2  Access road construction               Km.              18         23          23          64       12.95       14.70       14.70      42.35
2  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.              32         32          32          96        0.14        0.14       0.15        0.43
3  FUA Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        0.50        0.50       0.50        1.50
4  Research and Extension Support        Lump               I           I          1           3        8.29        8.48       8.40       25.17
5  PME Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        4.87        2.20       2.27        9.34
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                              84.13
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                  9.02
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                          0.43
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                 17.49
Federal Grant                                                                                                                          19.06
State Grant                                                                                                                            38.13
35 Rivers ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                           12.38
1  Access road maintenance                Km.               5         7.6       10.6        23.2        0.30       0.46        0.64        1.40
2  Access road construction               Km.             2.6           3          4         9.6        0.91        1.05        1.40       3.36
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells         No.              33         33          33          99        0.15        0.15       0.15        0.45
4  FUA Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        0.60        1.05        0.87       2.52
5  Research and Extension Support        Lump               I           I          1           3        0.50        0.95       0.95        2.40
6  PME Support                           Lump               I           I          1           3        0.75        0.75       0.75        2.25
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                               12.38
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                   1.20
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                          0.45
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                   1.88
Federal Grant                                                                                                                           2.95
State Grant                                                                                                                             5.90



Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit           1999        2000        2001        Total       1999        2000        2001        Total
36 Taraba ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                                5.67
I  Access road maintenance                 Km.               0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0
2  Access road construction                Km.                2           2           2           6        0.24        0.24        0.24        0.72
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.              29          29           29          87        0.13        0.13        0.13        0.39
4  FIJA Support                           Lump                I           I           1           3        0.36        0.36        0.36         1.08
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
6  PME Support                            Lump                I           1           1           3        0.16        0.16        0.16        0.48
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                   5.67
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                      0.25
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                              0.39
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                      0.36
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                1.56       a
State Grant                                                                                                                                 3.11
37 Yobe ADP
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                              34.12
1  Access road maintenance                 Km.              4.7         6.7         8.7        20.1        0.28        0.40        0.52        1.20
2  Access road construction                Km.              40           40          40         120        1.21        1.22        1.27        3.70
3  Maintenance of pumps and wells          No.            1,815       1,815       1,815       5,445        8.17        8.17        8.17       24.51
4  FUA Support                            Lump                I           I           1           3        0.23        0.23        0.23        0.69
5  Research and Extension Support         Lump                I           I           1           3        1.00        1.00        1.00        3.00
6  I'ME Support                           L.ump               I           I           1           3        0.34        0.24        0.44         1.02
B. Sources of Fund - Total                                                                                                                  34.12
FUAs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (15)                                                                                                       1.16
- Pump/well maint. (100%)                                                                                                             24.51
LGCs - Road maint. (50%), constr. (35)                                                                                                       1.90
Federal Grant                                                                                                                                2.18
State Grant                                                                                                                                  4.37



Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N m)
S/No.                Item                    Unit           1999        2000        2001       Total       1999        2000        2001       Total
38 FACU
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          178.96
1 Supervision missions                    No.             37          37          37         III       22.20      24.42       26.86       73.48
2 Implementation assistance missions      No.              37         37          37         III       22.20       24.42      26.86       73.48
3 Project appraisal                       No.               1          0           0           1        2.00          0           0        2.00
4 Studies and workshops                  Lump               I           I          1           3       10.00       10.00       10.00      30.00
B. Sources of Fund - Federal Govt.                                                                                                     178.96
39 APMEU
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          93.29
l Production of APMEU reports             No.              18         18          18          54        1.50       2.00        2.50        6.00
2 Production of ADPs reports              No.               8           8          8          24        2.00        2.50       3.50        8.00
3 Quick monitoring/Tech adoption studics  No.               I           I          1           3        1.00        1.25        1.75       4.00
4 Core surveys supervision                No.              37          37         37         l1l        2.22        2.88       4.44        9.54
5 Data reconciliation workshop etc        No.              37         37          37         Ill        0.90        1.26        1.62       3.78
6 Farm surveys and budgets                No.               I           I          1           3        1.50        2.00       2.50        6.00
6 Impact studies, crop/weather monitoring  No.              2          2           2           6        3.75        2.83       2.58        9.16
7 Engineering program                    Lump               I           I          1           3        7.35        8.55       10.70      26.60
8 Training and technical assistance      Lump               I           I          1           3        6.71        3.95       9.55       20.21
B. Sources of Fund - Federal Govt.                                                                                                      93.29
40 FMWRRD
A. Application of Fund - Total                                                                                                          45.00
l  Field monitoring of FUA tubewells      No.               8          8           8          24        3.00       3.00        3.00        9.00
2  Data retrieval for special             No.               4          4           4          12        3.00        3.00       3.00        9.00
tubewells/hydrological stations
3  Meteorological data analysis           No.               8           8          8          24        3.00        3.00       3.00        9.00
4  Monitoring of guidelines for FUAs      No.               4           4          4          12        3.00        3.00       3.00        9.00
5  Workshops and seminars                Lump               I           I          1           3        3.00        3.00       3.00        9.00
B. Sources of Fund - Federal Govt.                                                                                                      45.00






- 68 -
Appendix C
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
WORKSHOP ON COMMENTS ON NFDP ICR
HELD AT APMEU, KADUNA, 4  MAY, 1999
1.0  INTRODUCTION:
Following the receipt of the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on
the National Fadama Development Project (Loan 345 1-UNI), the Borrower held a
one-day workshop in Kaduna on 4th May, 1999 to discuss the report and articulate
a common response. In attendance at the workshop were the director, Federal
Department of Agriculture (FDA); Deputy Director (ADD); Head of Units of
APMEU; representative of Head of Unit of FACU; Programme Managers and
Management Staff of all the core States except Kebbi. Also in attendance were
staff of FDA, APMEU and FACU.
The Borrower wishes to commend the author for a well-written, balanced and
concise report. The report correctly reflects the implementation experience of the
NFDP and its achievements. Overall, the Borrower is in agreement with the
content but feels that following comments should be incorporated in the final
report.
2.0   GENERAL COMMENTS:
The Borrower feels that the draft report should have incorporated the
implementation experience and performance of the projects in last six months of
loan extension. It is important that the final report fully reflect this extension
period. The Borrower has recently updated the achievements of the projects to
include the loan extension period from October 1998 to March 31, 1999. The
updated performance indicators will be forwarded to the World Bank in the next
two weeks for inclusion in the final report.
2.1   SPECIFIC COMMENTS:
2.1.1  Page ii:  Currency Equivalents
The currency equivalents in this page should also indicate rates during the whole
period of project implementation as follows:
US $1.0  =   N9.5 (at appraisal in 1991)
US $1.0  =  N22.00 (1992-1994)
US $1.0  =  N82.00 (at Mid-Term Review in 1995)
US $1.0  =  N80.00 (1996)
US $1.0  =  N85.00 (1997-1998)
US $1.0  =  N85.00 (at completion 1999)



- 69 -
2.1.2 Page iv: Item 15, Line 7:
Estimated project life during appraisal was 4 years as against 8 years in this
sentence.
2.1.3 Page 2/3: Item 5
The statement that "All covenants were complied with except that related to
counterpart funding where overall releases were inadequate and late in some
instances" is not entirely correct. It should read "All covenants were complied
with except that related to counterpart funding where overall releases were
adequate but late in some instances". This position is corroborated in item 22
page 7, where it was reported that State Governments altogether contributed
231% of the appraisal estimate and the Federal Government contributed 89% as at
the time of the ICR Mission.
2.1.4 Page 3: Item 6
The cumulative area cropped during the life of the project was put at 100,582
hectares. This should be updated to cover the achievement during the last
extension period.
2.1.5 Page 6: Item 18
It is important to mention the intervention of the Petroleum (Special) Trust Fund
({PTF) in the effort to resolve the Farmer-Pastoralist conflict in the affected
States. The PTF has recently been involved in the demarcation of stock routes
and grazing reserves and also in the provision of stock watering points, veterinary
services and also plans are on to provide watering points and veterinary services
along stock routes and grazing reserves.
2.1.6 Page 7: Item 22
(i)    A  project overrun of 2V2 years was reported as the project was
implemented in 61/2 years as against 4 years planned. It is worthy of
noting that, at appraisal, the Borrower had demanded that the project life
span should be seven years based on Borrower's absorptive capacity and
implementation experience which the Bank rejected. Now, events have
proved the Borrower right as the project was completed in 6V2 years.
(ii)   The first two words in the last sentence "delay in" should be removed.
2.1.7 Page 8: Item 24
Strong government support for the project should be listed as one of the factors
that affected implementation positively.



- 70 -
2.1.8 Page 8: Item 25 (i) (a)
"Inadequate or untimely counterpart funding" should read "untimely release of
counterpart funding" in some instances as earlier discussed in number 3 above.
2.1.9  Page 8: Item 25 (iii)
In addition, factors that adversely affected the project and not subject to
government control should include:
(i)    World Bank sometimes issued procurement "no-objections" directly to
individual facility States without informing the secretariat making
coordination difficult and raising the risk of over-commitment on the loan
fund at the end of the project.
(ii)   The initial disagreement between the Bank and implementing agencies on
pump specifications caused substantial delay in project implementation.
(iii)  Initial delays in project implementation were experienced as a result of the
policy of the Bank for no-objections originating from Washington. This,
however, was rectified when the power of granting of "No-objection" was
ceded to the resident mission in Nigeria.
2.1.10 Page 9: Item 29 (a)
(i)   "Adequate and timely release of counterpart funds" should read timely
release of counterpart funds in line with our observation in number 3
above.
(ii)   The list of key players acknowledged should include the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources and Federal Ministry of Finance.
2.1.1 1 Page 10: Item 30
In addition to the sited lessons learnt, the following should be included:
(i)    Loan package inflexibility which did not accommodate farmers with
access to surface water for the fadama irrigation program.
(ii)   Farmers' preference in the choice of equipment and siting of infrastructure,
which would affect repayment, should be taken into consideration during
project design and implementation.



- 71 -
2.1.13    Page 10: Item 32
Operational plan highlighted in term 32 as "appendix B" was not attached to this
report.
2.1.14    Page 11: Table 1
(i)    Sector policies should be rated "partial" instead of "not applicable" as
indicated since the document itself in paragraph 3 of page 1 admitted that
the project objectives were consistent with 1998 agricultural policy
objective of the Federal Government of Nigeria.
(ii)   Social objectives should also be rated as partial because the project
outcome as highlighted in paragraph 23 of page 7 admitted that in addition
to meeting the objectives of increases in crop yield and production,
incomes and living conditions of farmers as well as reduced rural urban
migration were also achieved.
2.1.15    Page 17: Table 8A
"Lopment" in item 3 of the table should read "Institutional Development".



Thi.srop has b-ees, preprped by ..d b                                                                                .-,  .- . I  G   E I/:-                                                                                 )
Th. World Barb' staff eolssl                                                                                   N  IC FRIT IA I' IAI
for the convemence of readers
ood  is a-clasisy   for  the                                                                                             E    E O       M     N
i-ntenr- assof Trho World Bank                                                NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Grop. The deno-motions used
and the boundories shown                                                                           GROUNDWATER PROVINCES
on thi  rop do not impl, on the
port f The World Bob Groop,
ony jodge,e-t on the legl       II
ttotu a o-y terrrton, o-r cohd
n-doroor-t or occeptore of
such boundaries-
SOKOTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2 -  , ;    MAIDUGURI
0
IJ ASO4                                                                                                                                                                                  ...... 0 :   m  , 
NWIIJS 4                                                     0                                         0f    X                                                                        yBAUCHi
8 t N      X~~~~fyyy~f               7< 00 nS0 .,-   JA N                                                                                                                                                  (
MINNA                                   JosIAl
LAt ,0%, ,> * 4~'-SX                                                                                                         t.1.1'.                             -.. . ........   .*, OO  AI
~~~nooou~~~~~~~~~~~~sw  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~              e       ~         YL                     AFRICA
*    ,ABUIA                                                                JALINGO                                    A MR
ILOf N1
f PORi                                                                            RASIN                        -          LLNUL BASINNIGERIA
OSH-OGBO                         LOKOJA               Prn R<-.
0~~~~~0
KE RI-KE RI
SANDSTONE
=              (                                                                                                                           SOKOTO BASIN
(TERTIARY)
"AA      ~        o                                                                                                          SOKOTO BASIN
ES . INDICATED ON THIS ,VAP ARF NFW1 ro rz(CRETACEOUS)
COASTAl All I IVIEIM                i.n        NIJPE SANDSTONE 01
RIVERS~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~. . ...                                                                                                   MANGROVF AND FRESH
STATE  AS OALS                                                               ,VAD SASIN                                                                                                    THE IAE BASIN I
jMUAHIA                                                      ALVU
NATIONAl CAPITAL                                                                                                                           RIVER COURSE                             4.~ ANAMBRA BASIN
STATE BOUNDARIPS
COASTAL SEDIMENTARY                            CROSS RIVER
INFERNATIONAI BOUJNDARIES0                                                                                                                 .O'LDS,SN
PnOR I                                                                    CHAD BASIN
o NOEThis cup in uIlnrr 'UNICEF - L.gnn Niei-     IHROR                                                                                                    COENDAUIEI1                                     LNUL BASIN
A,ugi, ID, 1991 'SOME BOUNDARIESAN                                                                                                                                                           
PIAMES INDICATFED ON THIS MAP ARE NFWVoioccs                                                   o     12INOENOAII R
AUTHORITATIVE.                                                                    ___NC_N__N____AQL_F_L__



