B- W~~~~~~~...                      ,    t          U/ V    I X
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                        Report No. 9618-UNI
Report No. 9618--UNI Type: (SAR)
RANADE, C./ X34486 / J-5241/ AF4AD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 4, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
|Ths document has a restdted distdbudon and may he ued by redplenu only in the perfonnance of
t  . .  '--I' II  J[.                        I a            I I   II



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
!  .urrency Unit k                Naira (N)
US$1          =             N9.50
N1 (100 kobos)                    US$0.105
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures used
in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)       =      2,205 pounds Qb)
1 hectare (ha)             =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)           =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)          -      0.04 inch (in)
FISC:AL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUIC OF NGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROaIEi
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADP          Agricultural Development Project
APMEU        Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
BASIRDA      Bauchi State Integrated Rural Development Authority
BSADP        Bauchi State Agricultural Development Program
CPA          Cooperative Financing Agency
EA           Environmental Assessment
EC           European Community
FACU         Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FDA          Federal Department of Agriculture
FDD          Fadama Development Department
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FID          Fadama Infrastructure Division
FMAWRRD   Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development
FUA          Fadama Users Association
FUAD         Fadama Users Association Division
FASCOM       Farmers Supply Company
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILO          International Labour Organization
KNARDA       Kano State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
LGA          Local Government Area
LGC          Local Govermnent Council
MANR         Ministry of Agricultural and Natural Resources
MSADP        Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NACB         Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NATSP        National Agricultural Technology Support Project
NFDP         National Fadama Development Project
NFF          National Fadama Facility
NFFCC        National Fadama Fund Coordinating Committee
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
PCC          Project Coordinating Commnittee
PMU          Project Monitoring Unit
RBDA         River Basin Development Authority
RDA          Rural Development Authority
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
SARDA        Sokoto State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
SG           State Government
SIA          State Implementation Agency
TSC          Technical Services Contract
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVYELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................ iv - vi
I.    BACKGROUND  .........              ............................ 1
A.    Introduction  ................................... 1
B.    Agricultural Sector and Econcnnic Environment ....   ......... 1
C.    Government's Agricultural Policies and.
the Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy ................... 3
D.    Donor Funded Projects in Agriculture ................... 4
II.    FADAMA SUBSECTOR: EXPERIENCE, VISION
AND TRANSMON.                                                       7
A. Description.                                                     7
B.  Need for Irrigation ......................... 8
C.    Techniques of Small-Scale Irrigation
in Fadamas ........................   8
1. Lift Irrigation by Direct Pumping ...................  9
2. Pumping from Shallow Aquifer ....................  9
3. Controlled Flooding  ........................    10
D.    Expansion of Fadama Irrigation  ......................   10
E.    Future Vision, Reasons for Market Failure
and Transition Steps ............................
1.  Government Support ......           ...........  11
2.  Technology and Extension  ............1.....   1
3.  Fadama Infrastructure .......         ..........  12
4.  Financial Intermediation ........       .........  12
5.  Farmer Organizations .......          ..........  14
6.  Contracting Fadama Development .14
7. Environmental Protection .15
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Nigeria in March
1991, comprising Messrs. C.G. Ranade (Mission Leader), L. Campbell, R. Tillman,
D. Ilebani (World Bank); A. Schumacher, M. Hossain and G. Schokman (consultants);
Q. Umar, M. Nasim and P. Yadav (FACU). Messrs. S. Barghouti and R. Deshpande were
the peer reviewers. Ms. M.L. Ahkee provided assistance in the cost tables of the report and
Mmes. A. Bagai and Ellen Storm provided the secretarial support. Messrs. J. Joyce and E.
Lim are the managing Division Chief and the Departnent Director, respectively, for the
operation.



- ii 
Page No.
III.    THE PROJECT  ..................................... 18
A.     Project Rationale and Objectives ......................  18
B.     Project Area  .      .................................  18
C.     Detailed Description  .........          .................... 20
1.  Shallow Tubewells .......            .................... 20
2.  Fadama Infrastructure  ......................... 21
3.  Institutional Development ....................... 22
4.  Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation .....         ........... 22
5.  National Fadama Fund .......            .................. 24
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....                        ..... 25
A.     Project Costs .      ................................. 25
B.     Financing Plan ............           .....................  25
C.     Procurement ..............             .................... 26
D.    Disbursement .................................. 28
E.     Auditing and Reporting Requirements ................... 29
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .31
A.     Implementation of the Fadama Development Programs through
the ADPs .31
B.  Federal Coordinating Role .32
C.     Implementation of Specific Components  ........        ......... 32
D.  Mid-Term and Completion Reviews .36
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .37
A. Markets .37
B.  Financial Analysis .37
C. Economic Analysis .38
VIl. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   .                       .40
A. Indirect Benefits .40
B. Direct Benefits .41
C. Risks .42
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...                          ....... 44



ANNE=
Annex I      - Potential Irrigable Area
Annex 11     - Irrigated Area in 1990
Annex III    - Area Brought Under Shallow Tubawells, Direct Pumping and Controlled
Flooding in Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto During 1983-1990
Annex IV     - Future Vision, Current Status and Transition Steps for Fadama
Development
Annex V      - Environmental Overview
Annex VI    - Functions and Working of Fadama Users Associations
Annex Vn     - Eligibility Criteria for Allocation of Funds Under the National
Fadama Fund
Annex VIII   - Project Cost Tables
Annex IX     - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex X      - Organizational Chart
Annex XI     - Terms of Reference for Environmental Assessment
Annex XH    - Terms of Reference for Irrigation Engineer, Irrigation Agronomist, and
Contract Administrator
Annex XmI    - Technical Assistance and Local Consultants
Annex XIV    - Project Implementation Schedule
Annex XV    - Project Monitoring Requirements
Annex XVI   - Project Supervision
Annex XVII  - Tables on Financial and Economic Returns
Annex XVm   - Cost Recovery Arrangements
Annex XIX    - Documents Available in Project File
IBRD NO. 23119 - Nigeria: Project States
IBRD NO. 23158 - Nigeria: Groundwater Provinces



- iv-
rEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
B>orrowel:                        Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiarie:                     Federal Republic of Nigeria, and Bauchi, Jigawa,
Kano, Kebbi, Sokoto and other eligible States.
Amnt:                             US$67.5 million
Terms:                            Payable over 20 years, including a five-year grace
period at the Banlk's standard variable rate.
On-Lending Terms:                 The Federal Govermnent would on-lend, on the same
terms as the Bank loan, US $55 million to Bauchi,
Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States, with each
being eligible for at least US $3.5 million with
additional amounts being drawn from the balance of
US $37.5 million on a first-come-first-served basis.
An amount of US $5.9 million for a National Fadama
Facility would be on-lent to other states, on the same
terms as the Bank loan, on the basis of specific
eiigibility criteria, such as completion of a shallow
aquifer survey and availability of qualified and
experienced staff to implement the project. The states
would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Federal
Govermment would retain US$6.6 million for
environmental assessment, monitoring and studies.
Project Description:              The project would construct about 50,000 shallow
tubewells in Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi, Sokoto and
other eligible states over a period of four years. The
maximum irrigation potential would be 100,000 ha,
but in practice it is unlikely that this potential would
be fully realized, and a conservative assumption of
50,000 ha of irrigated cropping has been used for
calculating the project benefits. In addition to
providing for new irrigation, the project would: (a)
privatize drilling; (b) construct fadama and access
roads and marketing infrastructure; (c) simplify
drilling technology for shallow tubewells, conduct



aquifer studies and upgrade irrigation technologies; (d)
organize fadama farmers for irrigation management,
cost recovery and better access to credit, marketing
and other services; and (e) complete a full
environmental assessment of future fadama
development.
Estimatb Ca
Local               Forie Qn
(US$ Million)
A.    Shallow Tubewells ,/      29.0                 28.3                 57.3
B.    Fadama Infrastructure      3.2                  6.6                  9.8
C.    Institutional Development  3.0                  3.8                  6.8
D.    Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation k/            2.6                  7.4                 10.0
E.    National Fadama Facility    4.0                 3.7                  7.7
Total Base Costs:       41.8                 49.8                91.6
Physical Contingencies     3.9                  4.4                 8.3
Price Contingencies        2.3                  3.7                 6.0
Total Project Costs: q/    48.0              57.9               105.9
.a Includes the cost of pumps.
k/ Includes US$ 1.6 million for environmental assessment.
c/ Of which US$ 3.8 million in duties and taxes.
Financing Pla
IBRD                       9.6                 57.9                67.5
Federal Government         4.7                  0.0                 4.7
Farmers                   29.2                  0.0                29.2
State Governments          4.5                 _                    4,
Total:                  48 0L.9L                                 15



- vi -
Esiatw DDsurmet
IBRD Fiscal Year   EY2  EFY9   FY94 EY9   EX26 EY9
Annual       4.0  19.5  13.5   18.0  11.3    1.2
Cumulative   4.0  23.5  37.0   55.0  66.3   67.5
Benefits and Risks:       The project would contribute to food security and poverty
alleviation by increasing production and the incomes of
smallholders. It would help transfer simple but appropriate
technology for small-scale irrigation which is much cheaper
than large-scale irrigation which has so far failed to meet its
potential. The environmental assessment (EA) of future
fadama development at national level would help in developing
a national capacity for implementing EA to ensure effective
compliance with environmental requirements in fadama
development. Possible risks include: (a) overuse and/or mis-
location of groundwater pumping units; and (b) poor cost
recovery. These risks would be minimized under the project
by the program of monitoring water resources, formation of
Fadama Users Associations, use of indirect means for full cost
recovery and various up-front actions in major areas before
loan effectiveness.
Economic Rate of R]eun:   24%
MaM:                      IBRD No. 23119 - Nigeria: Project States
IBRD No. 23158 - Nigeria: Groundwater Provinces



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ,BACKGR9QUN
A.    Introduction
1.1   The Federal government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested a Bank loan of US $67.5
million equivalent to finance a project for developing fadama lands (flood-plains) by
introducing small-scale irrigation. The project would be implemented mainly in Bauchi,
Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States, which have pioneered fadama development under the
earlier Bank funded Agricultural Development Projects (ADP). It would also begin fadama
development in other eligible states.
1.2    One of the successful initiatives of the Bank-funded ADPs in Nigeria has been small-
scale, low-cost, farmer-managed irrigation in the fadamas. This has contrasted with the large-
scale irrigation schemes developed by the River Basin Development Authorities (RBDAs),
which have involved high capital costs and long periods to put lands under irrigation. Small-
scale irrigation in the fadamnas has been identified as a key source of agricultural growth for
the northern states. So far, only about 7 percent of the potential has been exploited. This
project aims at accelerating the pace of fadama development by: (a) improving infrastructure
into and within the fadamas; (b) using improved but simple technology for development of
shallow tubewells; (c) privatizing drilling activities and building the capacity of state and
federal institutions in support of fadama development; (d) improving irrigation management
through water users associations; (e) conducting aquifer studies and monitoring and upgrading
irrigation technologies; and (f) undertaking environmental assessment for further expansion of
irrigated agriculture.
1.3   The project was prepared by the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) with
active involvement of Sokoto, Kano and Bauchi State Governments and assistance from
FAO/CP and the Bank. It was appraised by the Bank in March 1991.
B.    Agricultural Sector and Economic Environment
1.4    Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Nigerian economy. It accounts for 35
percent of the GDP and employs two-thirds of the Nigerian labor force. Smallholders are the
backbone of the agricultural sector, who presently cultivate land by traditional methods under
rainfed conditions. The country is endowed with a wide range ot agro-ecological zones
permitting a diversified farming system with annual crops, such as cassava, yam, sorghum,
millet, maize, rice, wheat, cowpeas, groundnut and cotton, and perennial crops of cocoa,
oilpalm, rubber, etc. Livestock production is mainly from migratory cattle herders. A recent



-2 -
sector reportl/ has shown that the country has a strong comparative advantage in production
of the above crops, and proven technologies exist for increasing production and productivity
in such a well diversified agriculture under rainfed conditions. However, future growth based
entirely on the rainfed farming is likely to fall short of the needs of the rapidly growing
population. The report, however, recognizes that there are substantial surface and
groundwater resources in the fadamas, particularly along the northern rivers and that
harnessing these resources by developing small-scale, private irrigation can make a major
contribution to increasing food supplies.
1.5    The agricultural sector's performance has changed inversely with the rise and fall in
oil revenues. Agriculture suffered severely during the oil boom of the seventies because of its
reduced ability to retain labor due to the appreciation of the Naira, increases in non-farm
wages and concentration of public expenditure in sectors other than agriculture. The share of
agriculture in GDP fell from 45 percent to 27 percent between 1970-82, while exports became
insignificant with a sharp decline in the production of cash crops. The output of seven staple
food crops - sorghum, millet, maize, rice, wheat, yam and cassava - rose between 1970-82,
but at an average rate of only 1.2 percent per year; far less than the population growth of 3.4
percent. Even after oil exports fell in the early eighties, the Naira remained over-valued,
while the Government taxed the export crop sector through the operations of commodity
boards. A policy of cheap food was also followed, which resulted in a tenfold increase in
imports during the seventies.
1.6    The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) which started in 1986, resulted in
significant improvements in incentives for the agricultural sector. The Naira depreciated
considerably from NI = US$1 in October 1986 to N9.50 = US$1 by March 1991.
Abolition of the commodity boards brought about a significant increase in producer prices for
several export crops. Import restrictions were broadened to include bans on the import of
wheat, maize, rice, vegetable oil, poultry and animal feed. Interest rate ceilings on rural
loans were removed, while exporters were allowed to retain foreign exchange earnings in
local accounts for financing imports.
1.7    These measures had a positive impact on agriculture. The total value of exports of
major agricultural commodities in 1988 increased by 100 percent over 1987 levels in current
Naira. The export increase has been concentrated on cocoa, but the output of rubber, palm
oil and cotton has also increased. Furthermore, a number of manufacturing enterprises has
begun to use local agricultural products, with backward integration and investment in the
sector. In the case of food crops, the abolition of the commodity boards had no direct impact
on prices and, in effect the depreciation of the Naira shifted incentives in favor of cash crops.
Moreover, poor weather in 1987 had an adverse effect on crop yields. However, food output
recovered and increased by 5.5% in 1988.
1.8    Current indications suggest continued growth in agriculture. However, to achieve it,
several constraints will need to be removed. These are: (a) continued public sector control of
fertilizer distribution; (a) weak policy planning capacity and the related lack of prioritization
1/ The World Bank 'Niaeria - Strategy for Agricultural Growth", Report No. 7988-UNI,
dated December 27, 1989.



of public investment; (c) poorly developed infrastructure; (d) imperfections in the rural
finance market which limits access to institutional credit; and (e) weak agricultural services,
especially research.
C.    GoverMMent's Aericultural Policies and the Bank's Sector Assistance
Slrateg2
1.9    The Government is aware of the continuing constraints to agriculture and recognizes
that the sector must grow substantially to feed and provide employment for a population
increasing at around 3.4 percent p.a. and also to produce raw materials for industrial develop-
ment. In January 1987, the Government issued a Statement of Agricultural Policy which
included the following key objectives: (a) self-sufficiency in basic food commodities (b)
increased agricultural production for export and raw industrial materials for local use; and (c)
prevention of environmental degradation. The recent macro-economic policies pursued by the
Government, which support these objectives, provide incentives to growers and exporters. In
line with the privatization policy under SAP, the Government proposes to withdraw from
direct investments in production and to limit its equity participation in state-owned enterprises.
'The strategy for fadama development is in line with the government's privatization policy.
1.10   Following publication of the Agricultural Policy, the Bank and the Government have
held three sectoral consultations and arrived at an agreed policy framework and operational
strategy for the Bank's sector assistance to Nigeria. To achieve an agricultural growth rate of
four percent per annum over the medium term, the Bank assistance is targeted at the
following key actions:
(a)    intensifying efforts to improve agricultural extension, build national research
capacity, improve quality seed supply, and streamline input distribution;
(b)    accelera.;ng the ongoing private small-scale irrigation program in fadamas and
development of a prioritized program of high return investments to put to full
use past investments in medium and large-scale water and irrigation projects;
(c)    launching a new fertilizer sector action plan which focusses on improved
availability, reduced subsidies, private and cooperative distribution, and
improved location-specific ingredient formulation and recommendations;
(d)    launching a new livestock sector action plan with active participation of ADPs
and focus on policies and programs for achieving crop/livestock integration
and improved draft power availability;
(e)    developing an environmental action program to ensure sustainability of
agricultural growth;
(f)    improving rural marketing systems through acceleration of the program for
rural feeder roads, rural market development and increased private and
cooperative storage;



-4-
(g)    strengthening the systems of rural credit supply to encourage capital formation
and increased private sector investments in agriculture; and
(h)   improving agricultural technologies, particularly those that are attainable by
smatlholders and can be sustained.
1.11  Investment in small-scale irrigation in the fadamas and reforms in the fertilizer sector
are crucial for rapidly accelerating agricultural growth. This project would be a major step
forward by the Bank and the Covernment in support of small-scale irrigation. The Bank has
also been in dialogue with the FGN on the issue of fertilizer pricing and marketing policy.
The government has recently doubled the farm gate price of fertilizer but the subsidy is still
high, estimated to be at least 84% for imported fertilizer. Privatization of fertilizer
distribution has been constrained by slow progress towards elimination of the subsidy. The
government has appointed a task force on privatization of fertilizer distribution but a coherent
policy for marketing and rapid reduction in the subsidy has not yet been decided.
D.    Donor Funded Projects in Agriculture
1.12   Other Donors. The Bank has been the major external funding source for Nigeria's
agriculture. Other donors include the European Community (E.C.), the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD), African Development Bank, United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International
Labour Organization (ILO), and the UK Overseas Development Administration (ODA). The
EC is now funding three rural development projects amounting to about US$180 million and
four other projects which are: Sokoto Environment Project (US$34 million), Katsina
Afforestation Program (US$9.5 million), Mambilla Tea Irrigation Project (US$3 million), and
Extension and Research Liaison (US$34 million). IFAD has financed a small component for
fadama development in the Community Development Project recently negotiated for Katsina
State (US$12.2 million). This is the only other small-scale irrigation project externally
funded other than by the World Bank. IFAD has also identiflied projects for Kano, Sokoto
and middle-belt states which are similar to the Community Development Project in Katsina.
Two other on-going IFAD projects are the Cassava Program (US$12 million) and the Small-
scale Fishery Project (US$15.0 million). The FAO and UNDP have several small on-going
and proposed projects in the following areas: agricultural communication, fisheries,
agricultural data bank, settlement of Fulani pastoralist, development of wheatless bread, study
of the impact of the SAP, forest resource survey, ginger seed, utilization of wood residues,
prevention of post-harvest losses, oil palm research, preparatory assistance for the
establishment of a national agricultural land resources geographic information system and
assistance to the National Bureau for Plant Genetic Resources. Except for the first three
projects, which receive finance of US$3.36 million, US$2.17 million and US$1.25 million
respectively, all other UNDP/FAO projects receive less than one million dollars.
1.13   Bank Operations. Since 1975, Nigeria has received Bank assistance in the following
areas: Agricultural Sector Loan (US$9 million); Forestry (US$102 million); Livestock
(US$102 million); Tree Crops (US$229 million); Agricultural Development Projects (US
$1.16 billion); Fertilizer Imports (US$250 million); Seed Project (US$14 million); and
Agricultural Research (US$78 million). The main focus of the lending program has been on
the state-level ADPs, whose principal objective has been to increase smallholder income and



the state-level ADPs, whose principal objective has been to increase smallholder income and
food crop production through a package of support services with emphasis on extension, seed
multiplication, rural infrastructure and input supply. The Bank has not yet financed any free-
standing irrigation project in Nigeria. Its lending through the ADPs for small-scale irrigation
in fadama, although recognized as a success story, has been modest and estimated to be less
than one percent of the total lending for agriculture.
1.14 Lessons Learnt from ADPs. Key lessons from the completed ADPs, as well as from
the supervision of various components of the on-going ADPs, can be grouped as follows: 2/
Extension: (i) technical packages must be based on proven technology acceptable to farmers;
(ii) appropriate on-farm research programs should be used to test improvements to accepted
practices; (iii) close linkages must be developed with national research institutes so that their
programs respond to problems experienced at farm level; and (iv) extension services should
be unified to ensure a single source of technical advice to reduce overlap and inefficiency.
Fadama Development: although one of the most successful components, it needs to be
strengthened to give high priority and special focus to farmer organization, private sector
participation and supporting infrastructure for achieving optimum development impact. Sate
Operated Institutions: (i) the distribution of agricultural inputs should be privatized for
efficient and sustained delivery; and (ii) the process of privatization should be accompanied by
a review of state public expenditures through all key agricultural institutions. Rural
Infrastructure Development: there is a need for examining more sustainable methods of road
construction and maintenance, such as the construction by private contractors and maintenance
by LGCs with beneficiary participation where feasible.
1.15   The above lessons have been incorporated in the design of more recent projects such
as the Multi-State Agricultural Development Projects (MSADP) II and III, which became
effective in 1989 and 1990 respectively, and in the redesign of other on-going ADPs.
1.16   Continuity in various ADP activities is being achieved in Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto,
and several other states by bringing them under newly-formed Rural Development Authorities
(RDAs) which function as implementing arms of the state Ministries of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MANR). The national projects in key areas such as research, seed
services, technology dissemination, fadama development and rural infrastructure, including
input supply, will continue to be implemented through ADPs. Two national projects in
research and seed services are already effective. Technology dissemination and fadama
development will be implemented through a proposed National Agricultural Technology
Support Project (NATSP) and the proposed National Fadama Development Project,
respectively. A national project for supporting Agricultural Marketing is under preparation
and includes: (a) a program of privatization of input supply; (b) support for rural
infrastructure linked to a program of transferring eventual responsibility to the local
government authorities (LGAs): and (c) a review of public expenditure and state institutions,
including state-operated farm input supply companies, for strengthening the state MANRs. A
National Project for Natural Resources Management is also under preparation. A separate
project on agricultural education is also under preparation for meeting human resource
development needs of the sector.
2/    See World Bank, Project Completion Reports for Bauchi. Kano and Sokoto ADPs,
June 1991.



-6 -
1.17   Lessons Lea   from Past Irrigation in Sub-Saharan Africa. A pervasive theme
emerging from experiences in irrigation in Sub-Saharan Africa is the relatively successful
record of small-scale private irrigation systems in contrast to the spotty record of large-scale
public schemes. Experience with irrigation development, in Nigeria as well as in other
African countries, demonstrates that the sub-sector is suffering from a number of technical,
financial, institutional and human resource weaknesses.a/ Such weaknesses are present in
the context of small-scale irrigation in fadamas in Nigeria and are elaborated in the next
chapter.
I/    S. Barghouti and G. Le Moigne, Irrigation in Sub-Saharan. Africa: The Development
of Public and Private System, World Bank Technical Paper No. 123, 1990; and
World Bank "Annual Review of Evaluation Results for 1989", Agriculture and Rural
Development Sector Working Paper, OED, August 29, 1990.



- 7 -
11. EADAMA SUBSECTOR: EXPERIENCE. VISION AND TRANSITION
A. Desgription
2.1   In the northern states, the fadamas are mainly low-lying flood plains composed of
fluvial deposits and containing extensive exploitable aquifers. Elsewhere in the North any
low-lying seasonally flooded area is known as a fadama. Major fadamas occur along the
flood plains of the Niger, Sokoto-Rima, Benue and Yobe river systems. They vary in width
from a few hundred meters to as much as 20 km and encompass the land and water resources
that could be developed for irrigated agriculture. Fadama formation is a geomorphological
phenomenon that has resulted from the combination of slow river bed accretion and periods of
high rainfall that caused extensive, high velocity flooding and deposition of sorted materials
over the flood plains. Most of the coarse sands that constitute the matrix of productive
aquifers were deposited during the Pleistocene pluvials. Subsequent flooding has overlain
these with a mixture of generally finer sands, silts and clays. These vary in thickness from
about one meter to seven or eight meters. Deposition of sediments was accompanied by
raising the base levels of the rivers. The shallow aquifers constituted by the sands generally
lie below the flood levels and are hydraulically connected to river systems. Many are thus
subject to recharge during the wet season floods.
2.2    EcQlogy. Fadamas are remarkably different from adjacent uplands in terms of their
ecology and micro-climate. They are low-lying, flood-prone, slow-draining areas and
generally possess finer textured and less acid soils. These factors have resulted in fadama
soils with a markedly different moisture regime from upland soils. As a result, the natural
vegetation cover has been characterized by a composite of thick acacia scrubland, open
grassland and open seasonally or permanently ponded areas with sedges and reeds.
Traditional use of fadamas by pastoralists and their herds as well as by settled agriculturists
and fishermen has had a dramatic effect on the ecology. The original scrub has been replaced
in many places by grasslands. The land adjacent to the numerous villages that dot the
margins of fadamas has been entirely cleared for arable farming and is available to pastoralists
only after the crops are harvested. The retained moisture in the fadama soils as well as their
relative fertility, due in part to seasonal flooding in the past, supports good quality fodder
well into the dry season, when the uplands resources would have been largely exhausted.
They thus form an essential element in the pasturing cycle of pastoralists. Farmers have
traditionally worked in river margins of the fadamas, where they could raise water with
shadoofs to irrigate small parcels of vegetables and rice.
2.3    Extensive shallow depressional ponds that are a feature of some fadamas receive flood
waters in the wet season and retain it well into the dry season. Fish of various species
migrate into ponded areas with in-flowing water and find an ample supply of feed in vegetable
matter and insects that have colonized the area in dry periods. As a result of this migration of
fish, many of the settlements in and along the margins of fadamas have come to depend on
fish as an important dietary component. It is also probable that these wetlands provided, and
continue to provide at a reduced level, an important habitat for waterfowl and other migratory
palearctic species. They also play an important role in the recharge of the shallow
groundwater system through infiltration. As ponded water dries out, the inhabitants of the



- 8 -
area cultivate the margins of the ponds to produce rice and vegetables. Thus in many
communities along the fadamas people have practiced dual occupations of agriculture and
fishing. Recent changes in river regimes brought about by dams and by cyclic or permanent
climatic changes have drastically reduced the area, depth and duration of annual floodings.
This has affected communities which depended on these ponded fadamas for fish and
cultivable wet lands. It has also reduced the habitat area for migratory birds and other
wildlife.
B.    Need for Irrigation
2.4    The northern states of Nigeria are located in the Sudanian and Sahelian ecological
zones with mainly dry savannah vegetation and a mean annual rainfall of between 400 and
1,000 mm, concentrated in four to five months (May to September). Evaporation and
evapotranspiration in these zones are high. As a result, these states are prone to strong to
moderate drought risks. Vagaries of weather, particularly the timing of rainfall, limit the
profitability of rainfed crops inputs. Consequently, irrigation is not only essential for crop
production in the dry season, but can also reduce crop risks in the wet season.
C.    Techniques of Small-Scale Irrigation in Fadamas
2.5    Crop production in the fadamas has traditionally depended on rainfall in the wet
season and on residual moisture after flood recession in the dry season. In areas with easily
accessible shallow groundwater or surface water, traditional water lifting devices, such as
sadouf and calabash, are used to lift water onto the land. While such devices are low cost
and depend mostly on farmer labor for construction and operation, their irrigation potential is
limited to small plots. Water lifting by such devices is laborious and the irrigated area is
limited to about 0.1 ha per shadouf.
2.6    Since the beginning of 1975, ADPs have begun to address this water constraint.
Initially, programs focused on upland conservation by controlling surface runoff during the
rainy season and providing measures for improving the total infiltration and augmenting the
soil storage capacity. These programs of maximizing retention of rainfall for crops did not
achieve the best results in increased crop production. Technical experts working in these
projects, who were familiar with successful developments in low-cost, simple technologies for
exploiting shallow groundwater developed in South Asia, made greater efforts to apply this
technology. They introduced low cost tubewell drilling and irrigation by pumps into the
traditional fadama farming areas with very encouraging results. The key results of these
activities were: (a) the introduction of supplementary irrigation in the wet season which
significantly reduces the risk of crop failure from drought; and (b) the potential for
introducing a dry-season crop. Initially, the success rate of good yielding tubewells (sustained
dry season yield of at least 20 g.p.m.) was less than 50%. This was primarily due to
inadequate understanding and definition of the shallow aquifers in the fadamas. It was,
therefore, necessary to undertake detailed hydro-geological surveys to define aquifer
characteristics, including boundaries, more accurately, to improve tubewell success rates.
Such surveys have recently been completed in the states of Bauchi, Jigawa and Kano (1987),
Sokoto, Kebbi and Plateau (1988) and Katsina (1990). Similar surveys are in progress for
other states.



- 9 -
2.7    Based on the shallow aquifer surveys and other studies, FACU has estimated that in
the middle and northern zone states about 3.14 million ha are available in the fadamas out of
which about 2.06 million ha are potentially irrigable using the three types of small-scale
irrigation techniques discussed below (Annex 1, Table 1). 4/
Lift Irgigation by Direct Pumping
2.8    For lift irrigation, the farmers place their pumps on the borders of rivers, lakes and
shallow-dug wells and irrigate small plots normally within 100 meters of the water source.
Small water channels may sometimes be necessary to maintain access to water when its level
subsides. In order to avoid major land levelling, small basins (of 1.0 m X 2.0 m or less) are
used to contain and manage the water. Water distribution is through crude unlined field
ditches or PVC pipes. Fields are irrigated only in daylight, once or twice a week, and pumps
are usually removed for safekeeping at night. Pumping units are portable, weigh 20 kg to 30
kg, and consist of 2" or 3" self-priming centrifugal pumps driven by 3 hp to 5 hp petrol
engines. Maximum capacities are from 9 and 15 liters per second at zero head to 7 and 12
liters per second at total dynamic heads halfway to their maximum of 23 m and 26 m,
respectively. Fuel consumption for a typical 5-6 hour day of irrigation is 3-6 liters of
gasoline. There has been a tendency in the past for minimal maintenance of pumps and
engines, and this accounts for their reportedly short life span of three to five years. With
proper handling and maintenance, this should be longer. Such a culture is beginning to re-
emerge in the society with the substantial devaluation of the Naira bringing about a tenfold
increase in capital costs in local currency terms.
Pumping from Shallow Aquifer
2.9   Shallow Tubewells by Washboring. Washbore technology is simple and low-cost
(N750/well compared to N4,500/well for drilled tubewells), but its application is limited to
areas where aquifers are at depths of less than 7 m and overlain mainly by coarse or
moderately coarse textured materials. The mode of construction is to excavate more resistant
surficial materials, if present, with a soil auger or other hand tools and then to pump water
through a 50 to 75 mm rigid PVC pipe fitted with a nozzle inserted into the excavation to jet
out deeper granular material. Under favorable conditions, such as in the dry river beds, this
jetting process can start from the surface and is very rapid. The extension of a well to a
depth of seven or eight meters can be achieved in less than half an hour. Once the requisite
well depth has been achieved, jetting is continued long enough to flush out all suspended
particles. The jetting pipe is then withdrawn and a well casing with with screen is inserted in
its place to the full depth of excavation. This casing consists of rigid 50 to 75 rnm diameter
PVC pipe, in which the bottom 1.5 m has been slotted with 0.5 mm slots and a plug inserted
at the end. Coarse sand backfill is placed around the casing to the top of the aquifer layer
and finer materials above that. The pump intake can then be coupled directly to the casing.
2.10   Shallow Tubewells by Drilling. Rotary or percussion (bailer) rigs have to be used
wherever washboring is not feasible because of the depth of the aquifer or the resistance of
the overlying materials. The bailer is simple and inexpensive and can be made locally and
steel pipes are used as casing. It can drill up to 15 meters and provides good stratigraphical
information. The major disadvantage of this method is the slow rate of penetration. Rotary
4/    FACU. Small-Scale Irrigation Development in Nigeria, 1988.



- 10-
rigs are used to establish wells to depths of 10 to 16 m through relatively hard materials.
PVC or galvanized steel casing 100 mm with a slotted screen is inserted into the well during
drilling. A 50 mm pump Intake tubing is inserted into the casing. A concrete collar is
generally placed at the surface in order to secure the casing and drain spillage away from the
well head, thus minimizing the potential for contamination. The major disadvantage of rotary
drilling systems is the cost of the equipment ($40,000) and the need for sophisticated
maintenance service.
Controlled Flooding
2.11   While irrigation makes the fadamas productive in the dry season, flooding and water
recession have been the basis for a very active agriculture in extensive natural depressions and
oxbows. Water retained in these locations, sometimes well into the dry season, has provided
habitat for fish, birds and other wildlife. This generally uncontrolled flooding of the fadamas
has diminished, largely as a result of the construction of upstream dam projects (Annex V).
It is possible to rehabilitate the functions of some of the fadamna depressions, however, by
improving water inflow channels and providing control structures to retain water at desired
levels. This would also help to rehabilitate fishing activity affected by the dams (para 2.3).
The cost of excavating channels and building structures for controlled flooding is about
N2,200 per ha. and involves mostly local material and labor. This has to be properly
coordinated with the operation of the upstream dams which are managed by the RBDAs under
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development (FMAWRRD).
2.12   Among the three types of small-scale irrigation techniques described above, the lift
irrigation has the largest potential (1.03 million ha), shallow tubewells have the second largest
(0.87 million ha) and the controlled flooding has the smallest (0.17 million ha.) (Annex I).
The potential for the extensive irrigation schemes operated by the RBDAs is only 300,000 ha,
compared with the total of about 2 million ha for small scale activities in the fadamas.
D.    Expansion of Fadama Irrigation
2.13   The Strategy for Agricultural Growth report has shown that, for irrigation to make a
significant impact on agricultural production, at least 40,000 ha each year would have to be
brought under irrigation in the northern states. In the long term, the expansion rate of
irrigable land would have to be increased to 60,000 ha per annum. Before 1990, about
163,000 ha, only about seven percent of the potentially irrigable area, had come under small-
scale irrigation (Annex II). About 80% of this was by direct pumping from surface water.
The development of washbores and tubewells progressed at a much slower pace and only
about 18,000 ha have come under irrigation from these sources, amounting to less than two
percent of the potential.
2.14   There is substantial variation in fadama areas under irrigation among the states:
Bauchi, Kano (now Kano and Jigawa) and Sokoto (now Sokoto and Kebbi), which were the
first three states to have the statewide ADPs, have performed better than the rest and account
for at least 60 percent of the total irrigated land in the fadamas (Annex III). Gongola and
Kwara, which were the last states to have ADPs, have the smallest area under irrigation in
spite of the substantial potential. The rate of progress in irrigation development during 1983-
90 in the geographical area covered by the states of Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto
suggests that, if the same rate continues, it would take between 30 and 70 years respectively,



- I1I-
to exhaust the potential for small-scale irrigation. For the other states, this period would be
substantially longer.
E.    Future Vision. Reasons for Market Failure and Transition Steps
2.15   Supervision of on-going projects has shown that there is a rapidly-growing demand
from small farmers for developing small-scale irrigation because of high financial returns.
The economic rate of return from fadama irrigation is also high (at least 30 percent). The
public and private sectors have, however, not adequately responded to the demand. The
following paragraphs give a future vision, current status and transition steps needed for a
rapid and sustainable fadarna development (and in Annex IV this is presented in the form of a
matrix). The transition steps, of which this project is the first, are designed on the basis of
past experience.
Government Support
2.16   Even though the ADPs, which are public sector agencies, pioneered fadama
development, the state and federal governments generally did not support small-scale
irrigation and instead allocated a sizeable share of public resources to large-scale irrigation
schemes. This situation is now changing because of the enthusiastic response of small farmers
to ADP efforts. The change is reinforced by the low cost of small-scale irrigation (US$1,000
per ha), compared to the high cost (US$10,000 per ha at 1990 prices) associated with large-
scale irrigation schemes, and the large areas of fadama that are potentially available for
irrigation development. The recently completed Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto ADP projects have
far exceeded their combined appraisal target of about 67,000 ha. and have actually developed
about 97,000 ha under small-scale irrigation. However, the target itself was very modest
compared with the potential, and the ADPs have built only a limited capacity for fadama
development. As a first transition step, the state and federal governments should increase
expenditure on fadama development by augmenting their resources with donor finance.
Subsequently, the burden on public expenditure will decline as the private sector increasingly
provides services.
Technology & Extension
2.17   The rapid spread of small-scale irrigation practices requires accurate assessment of the
potential and appropriate exploitation practices. It also requires properly directed research
and extension for various types of small-scale irrigation and related farming practices. While
shallow aquifer studies at macro-level have been completed in Bauchi, Kano, Katsina, Sokoto
and Plateau states, micro studies are now needed. The key technical constraints are at two
levels: (a) drilling; and (b) irrigated farming productivity. Drilling services have been
constrained by lack of participation by the private sector (for the reasons mentioned in paras
2.33 and 2.34) and by the limited capacity of the ADPs to manage and maintain drilling rigs
efficiently.
2.18   Tillage requirements, as well as the need for modem inputs like fertilizer, are
substantially higher under intensified irrigated fadama agriculture than under rainfed
agriculture. A large part of the tillage (50-60%) is by hand with the short-handled hoe, which
requires 30-40 man-days to complete 1 ha. Much of the remainder is by government-owned
tractor pools. Very little attempt has been made to introduce animal traction into the fadama



- 12 -
lands, as has been done in the upland areas. This appears to stem mainly from the lack of
appropriate tillage equipment rather than from a scarcity of livestock or familiarity with
animal tillage. Animal-powered tillage of the,e heavy clay soils, especially when they are
wet, is difficult with existing equipment. Added to the labor constraint, the erratic fertilizer
supply has been adversely affecting returns on investment in irrigation. The result is that the
fadama farmers do not fully utilize individual holdings under pump irrigation.
2.19   In order to achieve the full potential of irrigated fadamas, state and federal
governments will have to increase future investments in: completion of shallow aquifer
studies at macro and micro level in the remaining states for assessment of various water
harvesting methods; and research and extension efforts on irrigation technology and
improving irrigated farming productivity.
Fadama Infrastructure
2.20   Sustainable development of the fadama infrastructure, which includes roads, drilling
for groundwater, and marketing and storage facilities for the fadama crops, is crucial to the
realization of full irrigation potential. Full cost recovery, maintenance by Local Government
Councils (LGCs) and farmers, and direct interface between private contractors and farmers
are goals to be achieved through ADP investment in the fadama infrastructure.
2.21   Fadama roads are essential for the transport of inputs and outputs as well as for
providing access for drilling rigs and maintenance equipment. There has been virtually no
construction of fadama roads by the ADPs except for the recent pilot work by force account
by Kaduna ADP. The past construction of feeder roads was entirely in upland areas because
so little importance was ascribed to fadama development. ADPs have only recently started
feeder road construction and drilling by contract. The response from the private sector has
been very enthusiastic. With. proper access and contract administration, the present relatively
high cost of construction, can be reduced substantially.
2.22   Some LGCs have constructed small storage facilities on the fadamas in Kano and
Sokoto for vegetables and are leasing them to farmers. Mechanisms for effective cost
recovery can be introduced through the market fees charged by LGCs in the assembling
markets.
2.23   In future, state governments will contract to LGCs the construction of access as well
as fadama roads, and hand over maintenance to LGCs, as and when they are able to take the
responsibility. Farmer groups could also be involved with maintenance particularly of the
fadama roads. Farmer groups will be trained in designing and administering the contracts for
maintenance.
Financial Intermediation
2.24   Smallholders do not have adequate cash to invest in small-scale irrigation and need
medium- to long-term credit for drilling wells and buying pumps. They also need banking
facilities for savings resulting from profitable fadama cultivation. Informal sources of credit
i,n the project area, which include relatives, private money lenders and traders, are important
because of the ease with which access to them is available and the minimum formalities
involved. However, as corroborated by several studies, informal sources do not provide
medium- to long-term credit and interest rates are usually very high (up to 80% in most



- 3 -
cases). The formal sources of credit in the project area include commercial banks, the
Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB), Peoples' Bank, Cooperative Societies
and the Cooperative Financing Agencies. Commercial bank credit for agriculture is governed
by the credit guidelines issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria and covered under the
guidelines on sectoral credit allocations. To increase availability of credit, the government
introduced the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme (AGCS) and the Rural Banking Scheme
in 1977, but these schemes have had little impact on small farmers who dominate fadama
cultivation and who need medium- to long-term credit for irrigation. Small farmers find it
difficult to meet the rigid conditions laid down by the banks because they do not generally
have the required collateral.
2.25 Land Tenure. The process required to obtain a certificate of occupancy (land title) is
cumbersome and relatively expensive, which is why most farmers do not pursue this course as
security to obtain credit. The limited number of bank branches, the scarcity of competent
technical staff and the lack of transport for field visits also contribute to slow processing of
loan applications. Absence of formal land titles is a constraint for banks in the provision of
long-term credit to farmers. It is also possibly, in some cases, a contributor to the abuse of
land because of the transient nature of land ownership or occupancy. As a generalization, it
may be considered that there are two major types of land tenure: (a) Statutory Rights; and (b)
Traditional Usufruct Rights of Occupancy. Under Statutory Rights, the occupant enters into a
99-year agreement with the Government for the use of the land. Under traditional use, the
tenure is recognized by the community through the local leader by virtue of the individual or
family use of a particular piece of land. These rights can be bought, sold or inherited and the
government can expropriate the land at any time with the payment of appropriate
compensation. Most land is held under this form of tenure and cannot be used for collateral
unless the farmer gets a certificate of occupancy. Conmmercial banks have started accepting
group guarantees w!ienever farmers are organized, which is a good substitute for the
requirement of land as collateral.
2.26   ADPs have to make special efforts to organize farmers who lack familiarity with the
procedures for group lending by banks. Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna and Sokoto ADPs have
successfully organized farmer groups which are either informal or formal as in the case of
Cooperative Financing Agencies. In some cases, where ADPs have provided a credit liaison
service, loan recovery is as high as 90%. The efforts to organize farmers, however, have
been on a limited scale and need to be expanded to have a greater impact on fadama
development.
2.27   In order to correct the market failure in the case of financial intermediaries, ADPs
will act on several fronts during the transition period as follows. They will: (a) finance
irrigation development which involves drilling and installation of pumps and fully recover the
cost from farmers and traders by using hire-purchase scheme on their own or by using banks
as their agents; (b) organize fadama farmer groups; (c) provide credit liaison service; and (d)
contract cadastral survey of fadamas with the assistance of the State Department of Lands as a
first step in the provision of a formal record of ownership. Special programs need to be
designed by the Federal Government for strengthening rural financial markets which are
beyond the scope of fadama development activity. ADPs will then have to progressively
withdraw from financing irrigation development at farm level as the financial intermediaries
start to supply the services required by farmers.



- 14 -
Farmer Organizations
2.28   Individual fadama farms average around 0.5 ha, compared to 2 ha for upland farms.
As a result, the fadama farmers need to be organized to provide an adequate scale of
operation for drillers, financial intermediaries and produce buyers. Examples of successful
farmer groups which have previously been organized for specific purposes include: farmer
organizations for washboring and marketing in Kano; credit and marketing in Bauchi and
Borno; tubewell drilling in Sokoto and Kaduna; and surface irrigation in Kwara and Anambra.
These farmer organizations have been formed mainly by ADPs. The lessons learnt from these
efforts would be used in organizing fadama farmers under the proposed project.
2.29   The ADPs, in organizing fadama farmers would involve the private sector, NGOs and
cooperative departments with the objective of creating such capacity in them so that the ADPs
could eventually phase out from this role.
Contracting Fadama Development
2.30   The goal is that ADPs will in time phase out from various construction activities for
fadama development. Instead, they and farmer organizations will design and administer
appropriate contracting arrangements which will augment existing private sector capacity.
This now exists in the marketing of pumps, drilling wells and in marketing fadama crops.
Except for these few examples, the capacity of the private sector has not been used much in
the past.
2.31 Fums. The private sector plays a significant role in wholesale and retail supply of
irrigation pumps, all of which are imported. Pumps are sold by private traders at many
locations in larger settlements where irrigation is practiced. Dealers also stock adequate
spares and deal in second-hand and reconditioned equipment; the latter is an important
service. The dealers, however, complain that foreign exchange is not available in a timely
manner and in adequate amounts. Public sector agencies such as Farmers Supply Companies
(FASCOMs), which dominate the market for irrigation pumps, import these through local
representatives of foreign pump manufacturers and so do not completely by-pass the private
sector in which a hierarchy of importers, distributors and retailers exists. They have never
used the private retail trade to supply pumps but had in fact undercut them by retailing pumps
at subsidized prices. Over the years, the difference between the price charged by FASCOMs
and private traders has narrowed substantially and is now insignificant. This has been
achieved as part of the policy of FASCOMs towards commercialization. In spite of this, the
private trade in pumps has been growing because irrigation by the direct pumping of surface
water has grown more rapidly than tubewell irrigation and the private sector provides more
efficient services. ADPs should gradually privatize FASCOMs at the retail level or refrain
from selling in order to remove distortions from the pump market.
2.32 Construction of Shallow Tubewells by Drilling and Washbores. Practices have varied
from state to state regarding the use of contractors. Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto states have
carried out substantial borehole programs by force account, but Sokoto ADP successfully used
a private driller to complete 2,500 boreholes in 1990. In all cases, the cost of wells to
farmers, whether drilled by ADPs or by contractors, had an element of direct or indirect
subsidy. The recent contract implemented by Sokoto ADP shows, however, that the cost can
be further reduced and the subsidy be eliminated.



- 15 -
2.33   In Bauchi and Kano States, some private washbore technicians, including some
farmers, were trained by the ADP, but there is still an unfulfilled demand for these services.
Pump operators complamn, however, of encountering dry conditions and others of having wells
fail due to their proximity to existing wells. From this, it is evident that the small-scale
drillers require further orientation, particularly in siting and managing wells, Monitoring
water use is also essential for sustainable development of fadama irrigation.
2.34   The recent experience of Sokoto ADP in contracting 4,000 tubewell for drillings to a
Nigerian-based multi-national firm demonstrates that: (a) a rapid expansion in the drilling is
possible with the involvement of the private sector; (b) the private contractors will undertake
drilling if an adequate scale of operation is available; (c) farmer organizations are crucial for
creating the scale, monitoring progress and quality of construction and ensuring cost recovery;
(d) private contractors have neither experience nor find it cost effective to organize farmers on
their own to generate adequate economies of scale for the drilling operation; (e) the cost of
drilling by contract can be brought down by ensuring participation of drillers who are active
in Nigeria but who have been primarily involved in the drilling of deep boreholes for drinking
water; (f) farmers are keen to participate in drilling contracts and are willing to pay full costs
if a deferred payment facility is provided over a period of at least four years and after a down
payment of at least 10 percent; and (g) shallow aquifer studies need to be supplemented by
detailed local groundwater studies in order to reduce the frequency of dry wells.
2.35   For the time being, the ADPs should continue with contracting the drilling. In future,
they should introduce variations in contracts for drillers to undertake the tasks of organizing
farmers, cost recovery and marketing output. ADPs should also assist in creating capacity in
farmer organizations to design and administer contracts and undertake cost recovery so that
their own contracting activities could eventually be phased out.
2.36   Maketing. At present, there is a relatively good market for most of the crops
produced in the area. However, there is significant price fluctuation in perishable crops such
as tomatoes as a result of inadequate storage and glut at harvest times. Kano ADP has
organized effective linkages between farmers on the one hand and traders, supermarkets,
hotels and a canning factory on the other for ensuring stable demand to farmers. This shows
that a creative use of farmer organizations can play a key role in solving market bottlenecks
faced by the farmers. In several states, private processing factories exist with adequate
capacity for absorbing the rapidly growing tomato producticn and they are willing to enter
into production contracts with farmer groups. A trading company in Kano has developed a
business for export of fresh vegetables grown on an area of 500 ha in Kadawa. The company
air freights the produce to London and has its own cleaning, grading and cooling facility. It
is unable to meet the demand in London alone and has estimated that much larger demand
exists elsewhere in the U.K. and the rest of Europe. It is also unable to expand the business
because of financing constraints and also because it does not have the capacity to organize
outgrowers. A goal of fadama development is to create an environment for contracting by
such companies with fadama farmers for assuring a stable marketing arrangement.
Environmental Protection
2.37   In the past, environmental impacts were not considered significant by the ADPs in
implementing the fadama program since they were small and taking place at a very slow rate.
The accelerated exploitation of the shallow groundwater resources could, however, have some
social and environmental impact and this has been taken into account in the design of this



- 16 -
project. Provision is being made for specific studies before further expansion of fadama
irrigation beyond the project targets takes place (Annex V).
2.38   Impact of irrigating Existing Arable Land. It is unlikely that the introduction of
irrigation into the already cultivated areas of the fadamas will have any profound ecological
impact. This land has long been under continuous farming and supports little or no native
vegetation. The project would be restricted to such areas. After harvest, the crop residues
have traditionally been removed, leaving the surface of the land clear and dry, with little or
no grazing for nomadic livestock. Conflicts between pastoralists and settled agriculturists,
because of the demand on fadama in other areas, as described in paragraph 2.2, is somewhat
sporadic and results from the straying of cattle onto crops or incursions of farmers onto
established cattle rights of way. This type of limited and localized conflict will undoubtedly
continue with some increased potential for incursion of cattle into irrigated crops. The
existing social mechanisms for the settlement of such conflicts should be able to handle this
situation. However, the major problem for the pastoralists is likely to arise as arable
cropping, with or without irrigation, is extended into new areas. This will deprive them of
pasture and provide more opportunity for livestock to stray onto crops. The potential for
increased conflict could assuredly accompany such a development.
2.39   Soil Degradation and Soil Mapping. Soil salinization or other degradation as a result
of irrigation has not yet occurred in fadamas. While it is unlikely to be a problem if only
replenishable shallow aquifers are used, a program of monitoring is essential. The program
should include soil surveys to provide an improved understanding of the nature of the soils
being used and of the baseline conditions that should be maintained. This survey information
would also provide a basis for the establishment of priorities for areas that should be
developed.
2.40   Soil and Water Contamination. The increased capital requirements of farmers in
irrigated crop production and the pressure to repay loans will in all probability increase the
use of yield increasing chemicals, particularly pesticides and fertilizers. Residues could enter
the surface water and shallow groundwater systems and, therefore, it is essential that the
monitoring of the groundwater inclides the monitoring of nitrates, pesticide degradation
products and faecal bacteria.
2.41 Wildlife Impacts. Concern has been expressed about the effects of the fadama
irrigation on migratory waterfowl and other waterbirds. Attention has focussed on the
Hadeija-Nguru wetlands of Jigawa State. This contains the Hadeija Wetlands Game Reserve
for which there are existing agreements in place between the FGN and the International
Council for Bird Preservation and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, for the
creation of the Hadeija-Nguru Wetlands Project. The project will not affect these wetlands.
There may well be other areas, however, that are threatened, should there be significant
expansion of irrigated arable agriculture outside the present boundaries of this land use, and
they should be protected.
2.42   Fadama Basins and Fish. The drawdown of the river systems resulting from fadama
irrigation may impact on resident fish populations. Some of this will occur as a result of
direct pumping from rivers and some as a result of additional contributions to aquifer
recharge. The major impact on the fish populations is likely to have occurred, however, with
the construction of the dams referred to previously (para 2.3), which have reduced the areas
of annually flooded fadama basins. A program of fadama basin rehabilitation through



- 17 -
controlled flooding shQuld make a positive contribution to re-establishing the role of these
basins in aquifer recharge. It should also provide the opportunity to re-establish the fishery
that existed previously as well as to enhance this through the introduction of aquaculture
techniques. This program would also serve to re-establish some of the bird habitat discussed
in the previous paragraph.
2.43   Impact Outside the Fadamas, The upland areas adjacent to the fadamas are being
progressively cleared of the few remaining trees for fuel. It is likely that the increasing
population on the fadamas could contribute to accelerating this as people seek firewood for
cooking.
2.44   Public Halth. Research carried out on the Bakalori Dam Project suggests that there
was significantly increased incidence of water-borne diseases below that dam. 5/ The
development of the groundwater for irrigation is, however, unlikely to be associated with such
problems because the technology leaves no free-standing water to support diseases or their
vectors.
2.45   Environmental Assessment Studies. In the light of the above considerations, ADPs in
collaboration with appropriate federal agencies such as FACU should undertake a full
environmental assessment (EA) of fadama development, and establish monitoring systems in
the ADPs as well as at the national level. Initially, further project-financed fadama irrigation
development should focus only on the underground water in areas which are cultivated in the
wet season and are not in use for grazing in the dry season in order to avoid conflict among
farmers, pastoralist and fishermen, and also adverse effect on wildlife. Subsequently, with
completion of the full EA, fadama irrigation could be expanded to the environmentally safe
areas.
51    Essien E.S. and P. Singha, 1990. Impact of Large-Scale Irrigation Project on Human
Health. Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Ahmadu Bello
University, Zaria. Paper presented at a National Workshop on "Farmer participation
in Irrigation Development and Management", held at the Institute for Agricultural
Research (IAR) Samaru, May 7-9, 1990.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives
3.1   One of the successful initiatives of the Bank-funded ADPs in Nigeria has been the
development of small-scale irrigation in the fadamas through the introduction of low-cost petrol-
driven pumps, along with various types of drilling technologies for tapping shallow groundwater.
Rapid spread of small-scale irrigation will be a key source of agricultural growth and poverty
alleviation for small farmers who are otherwise dependent on low and erratic rainfall. This
source of growth, if tapped fully, could increase the productivity of land and reduce the need for
extending land use for feeding the rapidly growing population, and hence will help in protecting
soils, forests and the environment.
3.2   The pace of small-scale irrigation development has, however, been so slow to date that it
would take several decades to fully exploit the potential. The following constraints have
contributed to market failure in fadama development in spite of growing demand from farmers:
(a) lack of government support through public expenditure; (b) low investment in technology
dem  opment and extension for irrigated agriculture; (c) poor fadama infrastructure; (d) weak
financial intermediation; (e) poorly organized fadama farmers causing lack of financially attractive
scales of operation for the private sector; and (f) limited access to foreign exchange for importing
irrigation equipment (para 2.16 to 2.36). Chapter 11 describes the transition steps for fulfilling the
goal of accelerated agricultural growth based on e-avironmentally, financially and institutionally
sustainable fadama development. This project is designed as the first necessary transition step in
the provision of needed services and capital.
3.3   The project would install 50,000 shallow tubewells by drilling and washboring in fadamas
over a period of four years by: (a) simplifying uilling technology for shallow tubewells, (b)
constructing fadama infrastructure; (c) organizing fadama farmers for irrigation management, cost
recovery and better access to credit, marketing and ther services; and (c) conducting aquifer
studies and monitoring, and upgrading irrigation tecr.nalogies. The project would also complete a
full environmental assessment of the future fadama de% elopment. The tubewells thus developed
would create capacity for irrigating a maximum of abc. r 100,000 ha of fadama land out of which
at least 50,000 ha would come under irrigation during the project life.
B.   Priect Ara
3.4   The project initially would be implemented in Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto
States which meet the following key criteria for the participation in the project: (a) completion of
the fadama components in on-going Bank-funded Projects; and (b) completion of shallow aquifer
studies demonstrating potential for fadama development. A small amount of funds would be
provided to begin the process of fadama development by installing 8,000 shallow tubewells in the
states which meet eligibility criteria (Annex VII). The states of Anambra, Imo and Akwa Ibom
and other eligible states, as well as the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja are likely to meet the
criteria.



- 19 -
3.5   The project would focus only on the fadamnas which are presently cultivated in the wet
season, have shallow groundwater for irrigation and are not in use by pastoralists. The project
would not have harmful environmental effect (A iuiex V). Crop records show that at least
100,000 ha of rice is cultivated in the wet season in such fadamas. Maize, sorghum, vegetables
and some sugar cane are also cultivated, although there are no reliable statistics on the area
covered by these crops.
3.6   Water. The pump tests carried out in fadamas in Kebbi and Sokoto states, have
demonstrated that the movement of water in aquifers range between 200 and 5,000 ml/day. 6/
Continued and more detailed work will be required to define the sustainable yield of the
individual aquifers for the variety of climatic conditions likely to be encountered once the
irrigation schemes are in place. The recharge rate is in most cases a function of the height and
duration of flooding that occurs over the main stems of the rivers as well as into the fadama back-
swamp areas. For this reason, prevailing climatic conditions have a singular effect on the
sustainable yield from the aquifers. Prolonged drought is likely to reduce the degree of drought-
proofing offered to the farmers by the use of the system. Care will have to be taken to ensure
that the aquifers are not over-exploited and for this reason the development of a proper
management plan is essential. As explained below, the project design includes the monitoring of
the water resource and the development of management plans based on the experience that is
gained through this process (paras 3.29 to 3.32).
3.7  Population. Population densities in all five states are high, when the general aridity of the
climate and the amount of uncultivable land is taken into account. Kebbi and Sokoto together
have a mean density of 1.13 persons per ha, Jigawa and Kano together have a mean density 3.2
and Bauchi 0.85. The agricultural population likely to benefit from this project consists
principally of small farmers who cultivate small areas of 1 ha or less per family on the fadamas.
TAhey frequently also cultivate a somewhat larger area of upland. Pressure on the land adjacent to
the fadamas is high, due both to the limited fertility of this land as well as to the dense population
that lives on it. Part of the fadamas have traditionally been used as dry season grazing by
pastoralists who practice a form of transhumance. They occupy permanent settlements in the
northern states in which they live and to which they return whenever pasture and water conditions
are favorable. It is a common practice to split herds as the dry season progresses. Part moves
southwards in search of better pasture, while the other part moves into the fadama lands. In the
dry season, the fadamnas may carry large numbers of livestock, some of which are permanent
residents while others are temporary residents. Fadamas that are used for dry season pasture are
excluded from the project.
3.8   Cropping Pattern. Before the introduction of modern irrigation systems, some fadama
lands were used for wet season production of arable crops, including rice, maize and vegetables
(tomatoes, onions, garlic, okra and peppers). Most of these, with the exception of rice, were
produced as mixed crops, although some of the crops were produced entirely on residual moisture
after the wet season flooding had subsided. Irrigated crops were also grown using water raised
from rivers or groundwater by means of the shadoof. The elevation of water by this means is
laborious and limits the irrigable area to about 0. 1 ha per shadoof. Farmers' attentions were thus
focussed primarily on the cultivation of the upland areas, on which the staple crops of sorghum
6/   Wardrop Engineering Inc., 1988. Sokoto Fadama Shallow Groundwater Study. Sokoto
Agricultural and Rural Development Authority.



- 20 -
and millet are planted. The introduction of pump irrigation dramatically changes the cropping
patterns on the fadamas, permitting the introduction of double cropping as well as supplementary
irrigation of the wet season crops. It has also made k possible to grow new crops like wheat and
chickpeas on the fadamas. The timing of land preparation for the rice and other crops may be
brought forward in June to ensure harvesting in time to prepare the land for the planting of wheat
and vegetables in November. Since the implementation of the "Accelerated Wheat Production
Program in 1987", there has been an upsurge in the wheat crop. This may be reduced
dramatically once the existing government supports for wheat prices and other subsidies are
reduced. Red onions, garlic, green peppers and tomatoes have also been grown as dry season
crops with some attempt by farmers to stagger planting dates to avoid market gluts. Maize and
okra are grown as minor wet season crops. Minor areas of sugar cane are grown mainly for the
fresh market.
3.9 Institutional Framework. The institutional structure already exists in the project states with
considerable experience in fadama development. In all the project states, state agricultural and
rural development authorities have established fadama development units, either as a part of their
agricultural services departmnent (for Bauchi, Jigawa and Kano) or engineering services
department (for Kebbi and Sokoto). The technical (agricultural) services department of these
authorities have a well-established program of On-Farm Adaptive Research Trials and extension.
The farmer supply companies (FASCOMs) and Cooperative Financing Agencies (CFAs) have
undertaken a few initiatives of organizing farmers for developing irrigation infrastructure, access
to credit from banks and marketing, which can be used as a building block for organizing future
farmer organizations.
C.   Detailed DescriDtion
Shallow ubewells (US $67.3 million) 7/
3.10 Shallow Tubewells by Washboring. The project would develop about 18,000 shallow
tubewells by washboring in Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto states. Additional 4,500
shallow tubewells would be installed by washboring in other eligible states under the National
Fadama Facility (NFF) (para 3.26). This technique is sufficiently simple that village level
artisans and even farmers are capable of executing small scale contracts. The State
Implementation Agencies (SIAs) would also provide potential contractors with training in skills
required for this activity. The cost of well washboring and land development is estimated at
N 2,750. Dry wells would inevitably be encountered and the cost of which would be charged to
successful wells. Areas to be developed by washboring during the first year program have
already been demarcated and the SIAs have prepared a list of potential artisans to participate in
the program.
3.11 Shallow Tubewells by Drilling. The project would develop about 24,000 shallow tubewells
by drilling in the states of Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto. Additional 3,500 shallow
tubewells would be drilled in eligible states under the operation of the NFF (para 3.26).
Tubewells would be drilled wherever washboring is not feasible because of the depth of the
aquifer or the resistance of the overlying materials. Tubewells can be drilled by either bailer or
7/   Includes the cost of pumps.



- 21 -
mechanical rotary rigs (para 2.10). The contractors would be supervised by consultants appointed
with the Bank's approval. Areas to be drilled by tubewells in the first year of the project life
were selected before negotiations (para 8.1 (b)). As long as the rotary rigs are used to full
capacity, their cost of drilling per well is similar to that by bailer rigs. Otherwise the former
method is costlier than the latter. The cost of drilling and land development is currently estimated
to be N6,500 per well. About 10% of the installed wells are expected to be dry, and fifty percent
of the cost of dry wells would be charged to the successful wells while the driller would
recuperate the remaining fifty percent through the reclamation of the casings.
3.12 Each shallow tubewell would have potential to irrigate two hectares and therefore by
installing 50,000 tubewells the project would create capacity for irrigating 100,000 ha in the
project states. However, because of labor and tillage constraints and low levels of irrigation
technology and efficiency among potential irrigation farmers, it is very unlikely that each tubewell
would irrigate more than one hectare in the foreseeable future. A proposed National Agricultural
Technology Support Project (NATSP) is designed to educate farmers in irrigation technology and
labor saving devices like animal traction which would improve capacity utilization of the installed
shallow tubewells.
Fadama Infrastructure (US $11.06 million)
3.13 Fadama and Access Roads. For the proposed fadama irrigation development to be
successful it is essential that a reliable system of roads be in place. This is required to transport
the farm produce to the markets as well as to permit movement of inputs to farms. Because the
fadamas are frequently situated at some distance from main roads much of the project-assisted
road construction would be of access roads across upland areas benefiting both fadana and upland
farmers. Road construction on such terrain tends to be simple because of the sandy nature of the
soils and their relative stability. It is essential, however, to provide adequate marginal drainage
and culverts to ensure that water does not pond on road surfaces or cause road-bed erosion. The
construction of roads on the fadamas themselves is more problematic because of the unstable soil
conditions and susceptibi!ity of these areas to flooding. Where roads are to be constructed on the
fadamas it is necessary to construci a base of laterite or other stable material which adds
considerably to their cost. Fadama and access roads would be constructed by contract and not by
force account. The project would finance the construction of 540 km. of roads in three states.
These would consist of 405 km of access roads and 135 km of fadama roads. The estimated cost
of access roads is N45,000/km and that of fadama roads N 1 19,000/km. It is estimated that 270
km of existing tracks would be rehabilitated by installation of 135 culverts in depressions and
reconstruction of approach roads. Each culvert would cost N9,000.
3.14 Shelters. Storage and Cooling Facilities. Along the sides of the fadama roads, the project
would also finance the construction of 78 shelters, 45 drying and storage sheds and 3 evaporative
cooling facilities for vegetables. The shelters, and drying and cooling facilities would be initially
maintained by the Fadama Users Associations (FUAs) and leased out to farmers. The evaporative
cooling sheds would be first tested by the State Implementation Agencies (SIAs) implementing the
project and would be leased out to the private traders.
3.15 Watari Irrigation. The project would finance up to US$4.0 million for the completion of
the construction of spillway and distribution canals for the Watari Irrigation Scheme started under
the Bank-financed Kano ADP, which was closed on December 31, 1989. The scheme could not



- 22 -
be completed because of unexpected floods which had damaged the main distribution canal of the
scheme. The scheme would irrigate about 1,200 ha and is estimated to have ERR of 23 %. 8/
Institutional Development (US $7.45 million)
3.16 Fadama Users Associations (FUA). The project would finance the expenditure on
spearhead teams appointed by SIAs to organize fadama farmers into FUAs which would serve as
a link between the fadama farmers and SIAs in: (a) identifying fadama farmers interested in
participating in the project; (b) administering activities such as drilling, and construction and
maintenance of fadama infrastructure; (c) full cost recovery from the fadama users for the drilling
of washbore/tubewell and installation of pumps financed by SIAs; and (d) monitoring of water
resources.
3.17 FUAs would be village based organizations, organized around existing formal or informal
groups. Details of key steps required for organizing FUAs, and the functions and working of
FUAs are given in Annex VI. SIAs would provide the necessary training to FUAs for
performing various functions as well as for generating adequate cash-flow. The Fadama User
Association Division (FUAD) of the SIAs would be in charge of organizing FUAs. The FUAD
would be responsible for the full cost recovery of drilling, and pump installation financed by the
project. It would collect at least 10 percent of the cost in cash as down payment from fadama
farmers. Recovery of the remaining amount and the interest rate charged at market rate would be
done over a period of not more than four years.
3.18 Cadastral Sure. Funds would be provided to the SlAs to undertake cadastral surveys in
the project areas. Mapping for this would be carried out at a minimum scale of 1:10,000, and
land title and other relevant information would be recorded on a suitable computerized data base
for easy retrieval and updating. The verification and the issuance of Certificates of Occupation,
based on these surveys, would be the responsibility of the State Ministries of Lands and Surveys.
-The FUAs would use the results of the survey to educate the farmers in availing of the
commercial bank credit setting the stage for the second transition step of fadama development
(para 2.27). The terms of reference for the cadastral survey were finalized at negotiations (para
8.1 (f)).
3.19 Fadama Administration. Under this component, the project would finance all staff in the
fadama program including operating expenses. The provision has been made for about 72 man
months of internationally recruited experts per state in contract administration for drilling and
road construction, irrigation engineering, irrigation agronomy and farmer organization. These
positions are critical for developing the capacity of the SIAs in fadama development. The
candidates for positions of contract administrator and irrigation engineer were selected prior to the
negotiations (para 8.1 (a)). The size of fadama administration has been kept deliberately small by
introducing contracting of various activities financed by the project.
8/   See World Bank-KNARDA "Watari Irrigation Project: Final Report on Updating of
Feasibility Study," October 1987.



- 23 -
Planning. Monitoring. and Evaluation (US $10.74 million)
3.20 The project would finance certain planning, monitoring and evaluation programs at state
and federal level which would help in the implementation of the project as well as in accelerating
fadama development in a sustainable manner. At the state level an amount of US$2.57 has been
provided for monitoring, conducting studies on marketing of crops and shallow aquifers at micro
level, and for training the project staff. At the federal level, the following provisions have been
made: (a) EA_CU has been provided with US $2.70 million for a full environmental assessment of
future fadama development; coordination of fadama development in the project states; appraisal of
the projects financed under NFF; technical assistance of 120 months of irrigation engineers; and
conducting specific studies such as local manufacturing of pumps, potential for irrigation by
recharge of fadamas by controlled flooding and pastoralist-farmer relationship; (b) FMAWRRD
has been provided with US $4.26 million for its Water Resources Department to develop
monitoring systems at national level; and (c) APMEU has been provided with US$1.21 million
for performance monitoring of the project.
3.21 Environment Assessment of Future Fadama Development. The assessment would be done
in three phases. The first phase would be completed in the first year for the northern project
states and Katsina State which lies between Kano and Sokoto. Phases 11 and III, which would
cover the EA for the middle belt and southern states, respectively, would be completed in the
subsequent years. Completion of the EA for the whole country would facilitate the
implementation of the second transition step of fadama development (Annex V). Close liaison
would be maintained with the EA study team and specific recommendations made by that team
would be reviewed with them and incorporated into the implementation of this project. Actions
would be taken in any case to safeguard against the potential environmental impacts that have
already been identified during the appraisal of the project, which include: (a) the potential for
some conflict between farmers and pastoralists; (b) soil degradation through salinization; (c)
depletion of shallow aquifers and recharge characteristics of shallow aquifers, and hydraulic
relationships between shallow aquifer systems and surface water systems; and (d) soil and water
contamination with agro-chemicals. FACU would organize workshops on the findings of the EA
study according to the time-table agreed with the Bank (para 8.2 (j)).
3.22 Monitoring at State level. The project would finance physical monitoring, project
performance monitoring and project evaluation at state level (Annex XV). The physical
monitoring of shallow aquifer levels, and soil and water quality would be carried out by the SIAs
in conjunction with FUAs in order to upgrade management practices and ensure sustainability of
irrigated farming systems through proper husbandry of soil and water resources. The proposed
establishment of the physical monitoring programs would include soil surveys and water table
monitoring. The terms of reference for soil survey and the study on relationship between farmers
and pastoralist were finalized before negotiations (para. 8.1 (f)).
3.23 SIA's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, supported by APMEU would carry out baseline
surveys, followed by annual surveys to measure cropping intensities, yields and production, crop
inputs and farm income of different types of irrigation, namely tubewell, pumping from surface
water and fadama rehabilitation. APMEU would prepare annual reports on fadama development
based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank.



- 24 -
3.24 Water Monitoring at the Federal Level. The Water Resources Department of FMAWRRD
has responsibilities for monitoring, planning, allocating and regulating the use of the country's
water resources. In order to ensure adequate capacity in the Department for the water monitoring
requirements of this project, funds are being made available for: (a) establishing the necessary
field and office physical facilities for regular measurement of stream flows and ground water
status in the five project states of Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto; and (b) strengthening
the staff for collecting and analyzing the required data. Concurrent with the training of local
staff, the project would fund the recruitment of an experienced hydrologist to assist with
establishing the monitoring facilities, and analytic system which would operated by local staff
after satisfactory training.
3.25 Project Evaluation. The technical performance and cost effectiveness of various
components of the project would be evaluated by APMEU using the SIA's monitoring and
evaluation units based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
National Fadama Facility (IJS $9.38 million)
3.26 The facility would be used for fadama development in states where the current phase of
Bank assistance is coming to an end. Anambra, Bendel, Imo and Akwa Ibom states, and the
Federal Capital Territory have been appraised for installing about 4,500 shallow tubewells by
washboring and 3,500 shallow tubewells by drilling. The fund would be administered by
FMANR through a National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee (NFFCC) to be appointed
by the Federal Minister responsible for Agriculture (para 8.3 ()). The committee would include
officials of FMWR as members. SIAs requiring funds would develop their own proposals by
using criteria outlined in Annex VII. Eligibility criteria for selection of the states under the NFF
would include completion of shallow aquifer studies, full-scale enviromnental assessment,
demarcation of areas for fadama development and establishment of the FUAs (para 8.3 (g)).
FACU would provide the NFFCC Secretariat and operational support under a senior staff attached
to its Program and Planning Department. The Secretariat would be responsible for scrutinizing
and appraising proposals either through its own resources or with assistance from other
consultants. The project would finance purchase of vehicles, computers, office equipment and
furniture of NFFCC and its Secretariat, including costs of appraising proposals either through its
own resources or hired consultants.



IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project!Costs
4.1  Project base costs for the four-year disbursement period are estimated at N870 million
(US$91.6 million) with a foreign exchange amount of N473 million (US$49.8 million), i.e., 54%
of base costs. Except for the costs associated with salaries, studies, and technical assistance, all
other costs have been estimated with a 10% physical contingency. Price contingencies have been
estimated using 20%, 15%, 10%, 10%, 10%, respectively, for local costs from 1991 through
1995; and 9.5%, 2.59%, 4.6%, 4.1%, 4.1%, respectively, for 1991 through 1995. Except for
specific capital items (mainly agricultural machinery and equipment) which enjoy some duty
concessions, project costs include all identifiable duties and taxes. Cost estimates are based on
the first quarter of 1991 local quotations for office supplies, construction, staff salaries and
allowances as well as international suppliers' quotations for vehicles, machinery and equipment.
Furthermore, a 12-month lag has been assumed between appraisal and project effectiveness. In
determining project financial costs, a nominal exchange rate of N9.50 = US $1.0 has been used
for March 1991 with gradual depreciation to N 12.2 by 1995. Based on the above assumptions,
total project costs, including all contingencies, would amount to N 1,228 million (US $105.9
million) (Annex VIII).
4.2   At least seventy three percent of total project costs is for investment in irrigation at farm
level for wells and irrigation pumps in Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi, Sokoto, and eligible states
under the National Fadamna Facility. Of the remaining costs, 10%, 7% and 10%, respectively,
would be incurred on fadama: (a) infrastructure; (b) institutional development; and (c) planning,
monitoring, and evaluation.
B. Financing Plan
4.3  The Bank loan of US$67.5 million would finance about 64% of the total project costs. The
loan would have a maturity of 20 years including a five-year grace period. The loan would cover
100% of foreign exchange and 20% of local costs. The Bank would finance only the capital cost
of the project, while the recurrent cost would be entirely the responsibility of the state and federal
governments. As indicated in the financing plan below, state government (SG) contributions
including local salaries and other operating costs would amount to only 4% of total costs (US
$4.5 million). Beneficiary contributions towards investment in irrigation would amount to US
$29.2 million (27% of the total costs). The remaining amount of US $4.7 million (4% of total
costs) would be financed by the FGN. 2/
4.4 The Bank loan of US $67.5 million would be made to the FGN. US $55.0 million would
be on-lent by FGN under subsidiary loan agreements between the FGN and the states of Bauchi,
Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto in such a way that each state is first allocated US $3.5 million
and the remaining amount of US $37.5 million is on-lent without limit to any of the five states on
a first come first serve basis in accordance with specific criteria (Annex VII) which are included
in the subsidiary loan agreement (Annex VII). Onlending to the state governments from the FGN
would be at the same terms as the Bank loan. It is a condition for loan effectiveness that at least
one state would have completed subsidiary agreements with FGN providing for the on-lending of
2/   This includes US$3.9 million on duties and taxes.



26 -
Bank loan designated for each state (para. 8.2 (a)). An amount of US $5.9 million for the
National Fadama Facility would be on-lent to other eligible states, on the same terms as the Bank
loan, on the basis of the eligibility criteria set out in Annex VII. FMAWRRD, with FACU's
assistance, would oversee the use of the funds by the states. The states would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The FGN would retain US $6.6 million for project monitoring and coordination
of the project activities at state level; for various studies including EA to be done by FACU and
APMEU; and for capacity building of the Natural Resources Department of the FMAWRRD. In
order to ensure timely funding, it was agreed at negotiations that State and Federal Government
contributions to the State Implementation Agencies (SIAs) would be accounted for in their
respective annual budgets and disbursements would be made under the above procedures as
agreed at negotiations.
C.   Procurement
4.5   All procurement under the Bank loan would be in accordance with Bank guidelines for
procurement. Adequate local capacity exists in washbores which are low cost and require little
capital for development. Given the low returns and wide geographic distribution, foreign firms
are not likely to bid for washboring contracts and therefore the development of shallow-tubewells
by washbores would be contracted locally by following local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures. In the case of shallow tubewell drilling, there are very few local firms with adequate
capital and skills, and therefore, international firms would be given an opportunity to participate.
All contracting for drilling tubewells would be by International Competitive Bidding (ICB). All
pumps would be imported under ICB (para 8.3 (a)). Domestically manufactured goods and civil
works procured under ICB would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable import
duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation. Given the wide geographic distribution,
the number of individual contracts (12-15 a year averaging about US$350,000), and phasing over
duration of the project, foreign firms are not likely to bid for fadama road construction contracts
and therefore contracts for new fadama roads would be through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. This would include: (a) standard LCB documents as agreed
with FACU; (b) local advertising of bid invitations and provision that foreign bidders would not
be excluded; (c) public bid opening; and (d) award to the lowest evaluated responsive bidders.
The Fadama Infrastructure Unit of each SIA would prepare bidding documents for one or more
contract in each state to be put to tender, following Bank guidelines. The documents would
specify post-qualification standards (for ICB). All road construction would be primarily by LCB.
There are inaccessible fadama areas which are geographically scattered and where private
contractors would not be interested in bidding for the works. However, since exact locations of
such areas and the related costs of construction are not yet known, the Borrower may, as and
when the situation arises, seek Bank approval for financing the construction of roads by force
account.
4.6  For civil works for drilling and for procurement of imported items, such as vehicles, plant,
equipment and spare parts, contracts of US $200,000 or more, totalling US $51.4 million1, would
be awarded under ICB guidelines. Civil works include the construction of spillway and
distribution canals for Watari Irrigation Project. Domestic contractors under ICB would be
allowed a 7.5 percent preference for purposes of bid evaluation. Drilling would be contracted
primarily under ICB and, as and when there is a case for LCB, the Bank would give due
consideration to the Borrower's request (para. 8.3(a)). Contracts below US $200,000, but above
US $60,000, and totalling US $8.3 million, would generally be awarded through accepted LCB
guidelines. Acquisition of technical assistance (US $0.7 million), Environmental Assessment (US



- 27 -
$1.6 million), and monitoring and studies (US $4.7 million) consisting of consultancy services
and internationally-recruited experts, would be in accordance with Bank guidelines for the
employment of consultants. Chief Executive of SIA, Financial Controller, Irrigation Engineer,
and all other technical assistance staff (whether short-term or residential), Procurement Officer,
auditors and study teams recruited under the project, would have qualifications, experience and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 8.3 (1)). Contracts for goods and civil works
over US $200,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank (para. 8.3 (m)).
Amounts and Method of Procurement
(US$ million)
(Bank share in parenthesis)
m         1,.2       Others         TtQal
Vehicles                          2.48                   0.28         2.76
(2.48)                              (2.48)
Equipment                         3.66                   0.41         4.07
(3.66)                              (3.66)
Washboring                        -         1.62        10.28         11.90
(1.62)                    (1.62)
Drilling                         12.01                  17.92        29.93
(12.01)                             (12.01)
Pumps                            25.22       -           0.27        25.49
(25.22)                             (25.22)
Fadama Infrastructure             4.00      7.06                      11.06
(4.00) 10/ (5.68)                     (9.68)
Technical Assistance              -          -           0.75         0.75
(0.68)       (0.68)
Monitoring and Studies            -         -            5.31         5.31
(4.69)       (4.69)
Environmental Assessment                                 1.63          1.63
(1.47)       (1.47)
Operating Costs                   -          -           3.66         3.66
National Fadama Facility 11/      4.00      1.95         3.43          9.38
(4.00)    (0.95)      (1.04)        (5.99)
Total:                       51.37     10.63        43.94        105.93
(51.37)    (8.25)      (7.88)       (67.50)
4.7   Creative contracting to progressively transfer a greater part of fadama development
activities to the private sector would be developed by the SIAs with assistance from FACU and in
consultation with the Bank (para 8.3 (k)). SIAs submitted at negotiations a detailed procurement
IQ/ Fadama infrastructure for Watari Irrigation.
11/ The National Fadama Facility would be used for financing drilling activity and pumps.



- 28 -
4.7 Creative contracting to progressively transfer a greater parn of fadama development
activities to the private sector would be developed by the SIAs with assistance from FACU and in
consultation with the Bank (para 8.3 (k)). SIAs submitted at negotiations a detailed procurement
schedule for the life of the project at negotiations giving items and quantities required, sources of
funds, timing and procurement methods, whether ICB or other (para. 8.1 (g)).
4.8   Retroactive Financing. Withdrawals up to a total of US$2.0 million would be made on
account of payments made after appraisal in March 1991 for fadama irrigation (category 1), civil
works (category 2), plant, equipment, vehicles and spare parts (category 3), and technical
assistance (category 5).
D.   Disbursement
4.9  The Bank Loan of US $67.5 million would be disbursed over a four and a half year period
from the fourth quarter of FY92 to the first quarter of FY97 (Annex IX). This would be the first
transitional step of a 10-15 year program of fadama development. An accelerated rate of
disbursement is expected under this project compared to that of the Bank's standard disbursement
profile in Nigeria because all the states have had long experience with previous Bank projects,
and the major part of the project is to be implemented by contract. The recent performance of
Sokoto shows that what was achieved in five years by force account was achieved within a single
year under a drilling contract. Bauchi state will qualify for disbursement, provided Bauchi State
ADP Executive Committee would be reconstituted to have at least two representatives of the
FMAWRRD (paras. 5.1 and 8.2(c)). Establishment of NFFCC and its secretariat is a condition
of disbursement under the NFF component (para 8.2 (d)).
4.10  A Special Account, which would be denominated in US dollars would be established by
each SIA in local commercial banks into which the Bank would make initial deposits. The
deposits would be used solely to pre-finance goods and services which are reimbursable under the
loan. The amount of initial deposits for each of the states of Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and
Sokoto would be US$0.3 million, and for FMAWRRD would be US$0.2 million, and would be
approximately equal to about four months of eligible expenditures. The special accounts would be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Should any disbursement made from
this account be found to be ineligible for financing FGN would cause the respective state
government to deposit the corresponding amount into the account before submission of any
further replenishment applications.
4.11 Disbursements of the Bank loan including the Special Account would be fully documented,
except for contracts valued at less than US $60,000 equivalent with a ceiling of US $0.5 million
for each state, which would be against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Withdrawal
applications for fadama roads contracts would be supported by FACU certification that the work
has been carried out to specification and in accord with the contract. The project is expected to
be completed by March 31, 1996, and loan closing date would be September 30, 1996. The
proposed allocation of loan proceeds and the disbursement percentages are summarized below:



- 29 -
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Amount            Percentage of Expenditure
CA =                       Allocated              to be financed
1. Civil Works for Fadama Irrigation   12.9         100% of foreign and 90% of local
for washbores; 100% of foreign
expenditures; and 15% of local
for tubewells
2. Civil Works (Padama            10.0              100% of foreign and
Infraatructure) 12/                               90% of local
3. Vehcles and Equipment           5.0              100% of foreign and 100% ex-
factory for locally-manufactured
goods
4. Pumps                          25.0              100% of foreign and 100% ex-
factory for locally-manufactured
goods
5. Technical Assistance
(a) Monitoring, Studies       4.0             100% of foreign and
and Training (excluding                        90% of local
TSC Staff)
(b) TSC Staff                 0.6             100% of foreign and
90% of local
6. National Fadama Facility        5.0              Similar percentages as
shown for other cate-
gories in this table
7. Unallocated                     5.0
Total:                       67.5
E.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements
4.12 Each of the SIAs, FACU, APMEU and FMAWRRD would keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect their operations and financial positions, and
would have the accounts audited annually by a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to
12/ Includes Watari Irrigation.



- 30 -
the Bank (para 8.3 (n)). The audited accounts and the auditor's report, including the Management
Letter (Long Form), and a statement as to whether or not Bank funds had been used for their
Intended purpose and a separate opinion with respect to statements of expenditure and Special
Account would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para 8.3 (n)).
4.13 Each SIA, FACU, APMEU and FMAWRRD would prepare annual budgets and work
programns based on appraisal estimates, as amended. With the assistance of FACU, a uniform
budget format for each SIA would be introduced in the first project year, which would adequately
portray project activities, unit costs, budget variances by cost centers, benefits, and productivity;
and form the basis of a proper management information and accounting system. This program
would be submitted along with the annual budget to Bank for information. Assurances to the
above were obtained at negotiations (para 8.3 (k)). SIAs would prepare quarterly cash flow
statements, which would be submitted to IBRD and FACU, and would operate on the basis of
these statements. On the basis of the approved budgets and procurement program, FGN and the
SGs would make budgetary allocations and thereafter would release the necessary funds monthly
in advance.
4. t4 Each SIA, FACU, APMEU and FMAWRRD would submit quarterly reports and
management accounts to IBRD showing actual and budgeted expenditures, statements of progress
achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each project component. Quarterly reports
would contain summaries of expenditures and use of funds to date. The management accounts
would contain key operating ratios, particularly on inventories, down-time, and turnover. FACU
would provide the necessary format for such reports to the SIAs.



- 31 -
V.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Implementation of the Fadama Development Programs at State Level.
5.1   For Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto States, respectively, Bauchi State Integrated Rural
Development Authority (BASIRDA), Kano State Agricultural and Rural Development
Authority (KNARDA) and Sokoto State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
(SARDA) would be the state implementation agencies (SIAs). All three agencies already
exist and have implemented Bank-financed ADPs. Agricultural and Rural Development
Authorities which will serve as SIAs in the new states of Jigawa (JARDA) and Kebbi
(KARBA) are being established and staff recruitment is in progress. In the case of
Bauchi State, the on-going Bank-financed Second Multi-State Agricultural Development
Project is implemented by Bauchi State Agricultural Development Program (BSADP)
which is a part of BASIRDA. Experience with this project as well as the earlier Bank-
financed project shows that project implementation has been constrained by a lack of
clear authority to the Program Manager of BSADP vis-a-vis the Managing Director of
BASIRDA. The Government of Bauchi State has given the Bank the assurance that
Bauchi State ADP would have the full authority to implement this project in Bauchi State
and be answerable directly to the Governor who would chair a reconstituted Bauchi State
ADP Executive Committee to include at least two representatives of the FMAWRRD.
Bauchi State would, therefore, be eligible for disbsursement under the project once the
Executive Committee has been reconstituted to include the two representatives of the
FMAWRRD (paras. 4.9 and 8.2(c)).
5.2    At the state level, the existing ADP Executive Committee (ADPEC) responsible
to the State Covernor in Council would oversee the project. The ADPEC is chaired by
the State Governor or his nominee and other members are the State Commissioners for
Agriculture, Local Government, Finance and Economic Planning, Works and Transport,
Commerce and Industry, the Secretary to the State Government, the Director of FDA,
the Head of FACU, the General Manager of the relevant RBDA, General Manager of the
State Water Corporation, the State Director of the Directorate of Food, Roads, and Rural
Infrastructure (DIFRRI), the Director General of MANR, Director General, Local
Government, and Managing Director of SIA as member/secretary. The ADPEC would
meet at least once every three months to review policy, financial and coordination
matters. It would approve budgets, work plans and the appointment of principal staff and
ensure that adequate funds are available for continuing operations. Each SIA has an
Internal Tenders Committee (ITC) nominated from among its Management Unit and
chaired by the Managing Director. These SIAs would hire a Contract Administration and
Procurement Officer who would also become a member of the ITC. The ITC is
responsible for the pre-award evaluation of all contracts under LCB or ICB. After
evaluation and approval by this committee all contracts valued at more than US $200,000
would be approved by the respective ADPECs. Contracts valued between US $60,000
and US $200,000 would be cleared by the State Commissioners of Agriculture serving
as deputy Chairman of the ADPEC while for the contracts less than US $60,000 would
be cleared by the Program Manager. The Chief Administrative Officer serves as
secretary to the tenders committee.
5.3    The organizational structures of BASIRDA, KNARDA a-Id SARDA are shown
in Annex X. Organizational structures of JARDA and KARBA as expected to follow the
model of KNARDA and SARDA. Under the overall direction of the Managing Director,
the Program Managers would oversee the Fadama Development Department (FDD)
which would have the responsibility of implementing the NFDP. The FDD has been
reorganized to have a Fadama Infrastructure Division and a Fadama Users Association



- 32 -
Division. Completion of this reorganization was a condition of negotiations (para. 8.1
(a)). The Fadama Infrastructure Division would be responsible for the construction of
fadama roads; storage and cooling facilities for crops; rehabilitation of buildings; and the
management of drilling and pump supply contracts. The Fadama Users Association
Division would have a prime responsibility for the promotion of Fadama Users
Associations and for liaison with them and training support once they are in place. They
would also play a major role in cost recovery of members' debts. Their activities would
be very closely coordinated with those of the divisions of the Agriculture Department
however. The Technical Services Division would be responsible for Land Use Planning,
and Seed Multiplication. This Division would also prepare the terms of reference for
monitoring and the soil and cadastral surveys, although in each case the contracts would
be arranged between the Fadama Development Department and the executing agencies.
The On-Farm Adaptive Research Division, dealing with both the upland and fadamna
crops, would be responsible for Animal Traction research as well as other work to be
undertaken in threshing and post-harvest technologies, soil ana water management and
pest management under the proposed National Agricultural Technology Support Project
(NATSP). The work on adaptive research and seed multiplication carried out in the past
would be continued with specific emphasis of the needs of the fadama farmers. The SlAs
also have four support units covering: (a) administration and training; (b) finance; (c)
internal audit; and (d) planning, monitoring and evaluation which would participate in the
support of the NFDP.
5.4   The implementation of the project in the field would be achieved through the
zonal offices of the SIAs of which there are four in each state. In addition, the SIAs
would nominate specialized staff to provide technical and financial supervision. These
would consist of a Chief Engineer, a Fadama Development Coordinator, a Procurement
Officer, a Principal Fadama Officer, a Technical Officer and a Mechanical Superinten-
dent. The Fadana Users Association Division would be headed by a Chief Administrator
who would be responsible for the management of all activities associated with the Fadama
Users Associations. Although a GL15 staff member, this officer would answer to the
Chief engineer for all administrative purposes.
B.    Federal Coordinating Role
5.5   The FMAWRRD is responsible for federal funding, monitoring and assistance
in project execution and for coordination of various implementing institutions. It would
play a crucial role in the budgeting process, ensuring that the agreed level of federal
funds is budgeted annually for this project and also that the funds are released quarterly
on a timely basis to various entities involved. The Federal administrative structures that
are in place for the Bank-funded ADPs are also applicable to this project (Annex X).
The Project Coordination Committee (PCC) that has been established for the ADPs would
play an essential role in ensuring the coordination of various Federal entities that would
be required to have inputs to this project. The PCC is chaired by the Director of FDA,
and its composition is shown in Annex X. The PCC would meet semi-annually and
would review the progress of the NFDP at these meetings. Federal involvement would
also be required for project monitoring functions through: (a) the monitoring and evalua-
tion unit of the SIAs; and (b) the Water Resources Department of the FMAWRRD which
would be responsible for the monitoring of river flows and the impact of abstraction from
groundwater and rivers for irrigation purposes.
C.    ImDlementation of Specific Components



- 33 -
5.6    Selection of Locations for Groundwater Development.  The SIAs undertook the
selection of the priority areas for the first year's drilling program, before negotiations,
on the basis of the information available from the shallow groundwater surveys and on
the strength of demand from farmers. Farmer demand was assessed with help from the
FUAs. The FUAs would be formed well in advance of any drilling activities and the
formation of 40 such groups was a condition for negotiations (para. 8.1 (d)). The
following criteria would be observed in the selection of fadamas and farmers: (a) the
lands would already be cultivated in the dry season, have a proven adequate supply of
groundwater, and would not be subject to a dispute between farmers and pastoralists; (b)
as far as possible, the lands should be near to villages and integrated into single blocks
that are unlikely to impede the passage of livestock; (c) each participant would be
permitted not more than 2 tubewells so that all smallholders would have an opportunity
to fully participate in the project; (d) farmers would be members of FUAs; and (e)
farmers would agree to pay the full cost of shallow tubewells installed on their farm
including the pump (para. 8.1 (b)).
5.7    Contracting Shallow Tubewell Drilling. All tubewell drilling would be by
qualified private contractors selected on the basis of ICB. The SIAs would be responsible
for contracting tht supply of pumps which would be imported directly, or provided
through joint agreements with private dealers. Drilling would be primarily with rotary
rigs which would permit development of three to five wells per rig per day. Because of
the high capital cost of the drilling equipment, it is expected that this type of drilling
activity would be undertaken solely by larger contractors, some of which would be
entirely local and others would be local branches of offshore companies. Where the soil
conditions are suitable and there is indigenous capability, drilling would be by bailer rigs.
Allowance has been made for training operators of small rotary rigs and bailer rigs
currently owned by the SIAs. To mitigate the effect of possible layoffs of drilling staff
currently working for the SIAs, they may lease or sell surplus drilling equipment to these
staff, who would be trained to participate in ICB for drilling. The SIAs, through their
Fadama Infrastructure Divisions and their respective Tenders Committees would be
responsible for preparing and issuing the tenders, for the evaluation of the bids and the
selection of the qualified bidders. Supervision of contracts would be done by the
Contract Administration and Procurement Officer, or by private consultants engaged for
this specific purpose.  This work would be the responsibility of the Infrastructure
Division. It is assumed that about 10 percent of the wells would be abortive, but in
almost all cases it would be possible to recover casings for use elsewhere. Consequently,
a total loss of only 10 percent has been budgeted for and would be included in the
contract. As a part of the contract it would be obligatory for the drillers to prepare
detailed logs of the materials that are encountered and the depths at which they occur.
Records of the depths of the aquifer surfaces and pump test results would also be
required. The draft bidding documents for the drilling contracts would be agreed with
the Bank before effectiveness (para. 8.2 (b)).
5.8    Contracting Shallow Tubewell Washboring. The relative simplicity and low
capital requirements of the washbore technology make it accessible to a much wider
range of potential contractors. The SIAs would undertake the training of potential
contractors and assist the farmers in providing quality control. The Fadama Infrastruc-
ture Division would be responsible for the contracting of these small-scale drillers
through price quotations for jobs worth less than US $60,000.
5.9    Cost Recovery. The project would recover the full cost of irrigation development
from farmers, which includes the cost of drilling/washboring including failed wells and
pumps (Annex XVIII). Full cost recovery would be essential for sustainability of the



- 34 -
project investments and institutions. The cost recovery for the tubewell program would
be designed in such a way that cash rebates would be built in for farmers who pay either
on the delivery of the pumps and completion of well drilling, or immediately after the
first harvest of the dry season. Such incentives would be communicated to farmers well
in advance by FUAs. For farmers seeking deferred payments the project would charge
the full cost of finance applied by commercial banks for loans covering similar activities.
Based on the ADPs' past experience of fadama development, it is expected that only a
few farmers would be able to pay cash on delivery, but their numbers are difficult to
estimate. Most farmers would seek deferred payments, but would be in a position to
make a down payment of at least 25 percent and repay the remaining cost within four
years. The down payment may include the cost of land development which is expected
to be mostly in the form of farmers' labor and the incremental input needs for fadama
irrigation. The funds recovered from the farmers would be deposited into a separate
special account of the SIAs to be used for further fadama development and repayment of
the Bank loan. The account would be monitored by the NFFCC Secretariat. The
statement of accounts would be submitted quarterly to the Bank, FDA and FMFED
through NFFCC.
5.10   The project would ensure that there are sufficient safeguards to avoid farmers'
default in repayment of amounts due to SIA. The following four-pronged approach
would be adopted to ensure full cost recovery: (a) pumps would be pledged; (b) at least
three farmers from the same FUA would provide mutual guarantees for repayment; (c)
LGCs would guarantee a part of the market cess collected at local markets on the fadama
crops, for example vegetables, as payment against defaulted loans; and (d) defaulting
farmers would be barred from future assistance in irrigation. Preparation of a program
of full cost recovery from farmers based on the guidelines given in Annex XVIII
satisfactory to the Bank was a condition of negotiations (para. 8.1 (e)). During
negotiations, it was agreed that the agreed cost recovery programs would be implemented
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para 8. 1(e)).
5.11  Fadama Infrastructure. The preliminary identification and survey of fadama road
alignments together with preliminary engineering design, financial and economic analysis,
would be done by the Fadama Infrastructure Division in each of the states. Tender
documents would be prepared with the assistance of the Contract Administration and
Procurement Officer, for roads demonstrating positive benefits and selected by the SIAs
for implementation. Fadama roads and access roads would be constructed by contract
and not by force account. The contracts would be bulked per state and put to local
tender.  There are adequate numbers of interested local contractors, some with
international affiliates, to provide a competitive environment. The SIAs with assistance
of FACU would prepare an annual rural road works program which would decide the
location of roadwork, and submit it to the Bank every year no later than August 31 (para
8.9). Bank funding has been provided to ensure that contract supervisors could be
employed by each of the SIAs and that rigorous contracting and procurement procedures
are followed.
5.12   LGCs are constitutionally responsible for maintaining feeder, including fadama,
roads and markets in their jurisdiction. SIAs, with assistance from FACU, would assist
LGCs with agreed qualifying criteria to carry out routine maintenance of fadama roads,
shelters, and cooling facilities. The project would finance the recruitment and training
of LGC engineering staff under technical assistance as necessary, and provide each LGC
with necessary hand tools and simple machines (non-hydraulic) and equipment for routine
road maintenance. Once FUAs are established, they would undertake the routine
maintenance of fadama roads, leaving the accesE roads to LGCs.



- 35 -
5.13   Training. The Fadama Development Department would be assigned the task of
developing and implementing training programs. The principal aims of the trainiag
program would be to: (a) increase the maintenance capability for pumps and small
motors within the area by training mechanics; (b) train farmers and sm-41,-s-ale
contractors in the techniques of developing shallow tubewells by drilling and w.,shbores,
and maintaining them; (c) improve water management through the introduction o f animal
traction and specific soil and water management programs (these would be do-eloped
during the course of the project by the proposed NATSP); (d) train farmers in procedures
to be followed in monitoring aquifer a ;pths and in taking water and soil samples; and (e)
train farmer groups in accounting and financial management procedures for the operation
of group credit management. These activities would be organized by the Fadama
Technical Officers. Courses would be conducted in the villages as well as at the Zonal
offices and as far as possible would be organized through the FUAs.
5.14   Technology Development. The proposed National Agricultural Technology
Support Project (NATSP) would be implemented by SIAs in tandem with the NFDP and
would be responsible for funding and administering technology development, evaluation
and promotion activities designed to overcome technological constraints to fadama
development. The major components of this activity would be: (a) the identification,
adaptation and promotion of animal-drawn tillage equipment and techniques; (b) the
adaptation and promotion of suitable threshing equipment and associated harvested crop
handling and storage techniques for use in the fadama areas; and (c) the investigation and
promotion of improved soil and water management techniques for use in irrigated
fadamas.
5.15  Fadama Users Associations. It is essential that the FUAs are developed on the
basis of free association among farmers and that these have well-defined aims and roles
servicing a common purpose of fadama farmers that can only be fulfilled by associating
rather than through acting independently. Unless these conditions are fulfilled they are
unlikely to be sustainable. Each FUA is expected to have approximately 25 farmers.
The FUA Division would have the responsibility for promoting FUAs as village-based
organizations through a bottom-up process and for this purpose the Division would form
spearhead teams of the staff (Annex VI). Each spearhead team would have three to four
staff and would contact fadama farmers to explain the project, establish a common
purpose for forming an association and start the process of forming FUAs. The common
purpose includes pooled purchase of drilling services; transport of inputs such as
fertilizer; mutual guarantees for loan repayment; regulation of water use; maintenance
of fadama infrastructure including roads, pumps and storage; and transport and marketing
of output. Four spearhead teams would be able to form about 25 to 30 FUAs. SLAs
would recruit experienced consultants as advisors to the FUA Division who would help
in formation and working of the spearhead teams. The spearhead teams would be formed
from the existing staff of SIAs who have experience in organizing farmers. The staff
would mostly come from the existing Cooperative Divisions of the SIAs, but some new
staff may have to be recruited. New staff would be trained by the advisors while on the
job as well as by organizing special training programs at ARMTI and other training
institutes in Nigeria and as necessary abroad. For sustainability of FUAs, assurances
were received at negotiations that: (a) FUAs would be independent organizations and
would not receive any subvention from government (para. 8.3 (d)); (b) essential features
of the by-laws of the FUAs should be satisfactory to the Bank and would include
appropriate provisions for revenue generation explained in Annex VI (para. 8.3 (e)); and
(c) the FUA Division would submit to FACU, APMEU and the Bank every six months
a report outlining their activities (para. 8.2 (f)). Finalization of the by-laws of FUAs was
a condition of negotiations (para. 8.1 (c)).



- 36 -
5.16   National Fadama Facility.  The National Fadama Facility Coordinating
Committee (NFFCC) would be responsible for the administration of the fund. The
chairperson of the committee, to be appointed by the Honorable Minister FMAWRRD,
would be an independent person of eminence in agriculture. It would additionally consist
of up to twelve members including: Director, Federal Department of Agriculture,
FMAWRRD; Director, Federal Department of Livestock, FMAWRRD; Director, Federal
Department of Irrigation and Drainage, FMAWRRD; Director of Agricultural Sciences,
in the national agency responsible for agricultural research; Director of one of the
agricultural research institutes (nominated by the national agency responsible for
agricultural research); two Managing Directors of the SlAs (nominated by the
FMAWRRD on recommendations from FACU) on a two year term; Head of Unit,
APMEU; one active small-medium scale farmer nominated by FUAs, who has in the past
been awarded the best farmer prize in the state; and two private pump traders who are
also, wherever possible, drillers to be selected by Managing Directors of SlAs on the
committee. The Director of the Program and Planning Department of FACU would be
the member secretary of the NFFCC. The chairperson, Managing Directors, the Institute
Director, farmer member and private traders would be initially appointed for two years,
renewable for another term of two years. The NFFCC would meet as necessary.
5.17   NFFCC Secretariat. FACU would provide a secretariat to service the NFFCC.
The Head of FACU would be assisted by the Program Development and Planning
Department where a discrete cell (consisting of a coordinator at GL14, a technical
assistant at GLO8 and a secretary at GL05) would be established to provide the day-to-day
support to the NFFCC. Establishment of the NFFCC and its secretariat is a c ndition
of disbursement against the National Fadama Facility component (para 8.2(d)). The
project would meet NFFCC costs.
5.18   Operation of the National Fadama Facility. Proposals submitted by the SlAs
would be first scrutinized by the NFFCC Secretariat and appraised by a tearn of
specialists using criteria established jointly by the Government and the Bank. These
would essentially be similar to those used for appraising the Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi
and Sokoto components. The team would comprise FACU specialists, augmented with
additional external consultants whenever necessary. A list of suggested eligibility criteria
is given in Annex Vll. The first five applications for financing under the NFF would be
sent to the Bank for agreement after FACU appraisal and approval by the NFFCC.
Thereafter, only proposals costing more than US$1 million would be jointly appraised
by the Bank and the Government. Assurances to this effect were received at negotiations
(para 8.3 (i)).
D.    Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
5.19   The review would focus on assessing the success of various components of NFDP
in: (a) movement towards transition step II of fadama development; (b) increasing total
farm productivity; and (c) establishment of FUAs and implementation of EA would also
be evaluated. At negotiation, assurances were received that FACU would coordinate the
preparation of comprehensive progress reports by the participating agencies for the mid-
term review of the project which would be completed no later than March 31, 1994 by
a joint Government/Bank team (para. 8.3 (o)).



- 37 -
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Markets
6.1   Rice, wheat and vegetables produced by the project would not face any major market
constraint as the country is presently in deficit in these commodities. Moreover, because they
have high income elasticity of demand they will experience growing demand along with growth of
the economy. Although high demand for domestically-produced wheat and rice is mainly due to
the current ban on their import, productivity of the fadamas is such that the domestic rice grown
there would be able to compete with imported rice if the bans were lifted. Similarly, wheat
produced on the fadamas would be able to compete with imported wheat whenever the yield is at
least two tons per hectare and farm size is at least one hectare (Annex XVII). Such yield levels
have been achieved by Sokoto and Kano farmers.
6.2  Farmers are expected to produce three main types of vegetables: tomatoes, onions and
peppers. At full development of the project, production is likely to be 100,000 tons, which is less
than one percent of the total production of vegetables in the country. Onions and pepper would
be able to compete with those imported as a part of the border trade with Nigeria's neighbors.
No firm estimates of such trade are, however, available. A private trader in Kano has developed
a vegetable farm for export to London and is planning to expand his business. There is also a
growing domestic demand for vegetables which the project would be able to meet. Traders from
as far away as Port Harcourt travel to the project area to buy vegetables.
6.3   Tomatoes and peppers, which are perishable, pose a special problem, in contrast to onions
which can remain fresh for a longer time. The following actions by the project are expected to
alleviate the problem of glut and resulting decline in prices faced by farmers: (a) the project
would develop market infrastructure such as shades and cooling facilities which would help to
prevent losses; (b) there are private-sector food processing facilities in the project area which
would provide steady demand, and the FUAs would develop long-term contracts with these
facilities; and (c) as part of creative drilling contracts, the project would develop links with
the local traders for marketing the produce at an assured price domestically as well as for export
to Europe as is presently occurring on a modest scale in Kano.
B.   Financial Analysis
6.4   Combinations of two cropping patterns and two farm sizes have been analyzed on the basis
of: (a) prices for the first quarter of 1991; (b) paddy in the wet season; and either a combination
of 50:50 for wheat and vegetables or all grains in the dry season; and (c) the price of pumps at
N4,500; (d) the cost of drilling of washbores and tubewells, respectively, at N750 and M4,500;
and (e) the cost of land development, which is mostly farmer labor, at N 2,000 (Annex XVIII).
The financial rate of return for farms growing paddy in the wet season and only vegetables in the
dry season, not reported in the table, is always higher than that for the farms growing a
combination of grains and vegetables in the dry season. Sensitivity analysis for a decline in the
farmgate output price by 30% is presented in the following table:



- 38 -
Financial Rates of Return
Vegetables & Grains ---------           ------- --All Grains--------
Decline in                            Decline in
Output                                Output
Farm Size        1991 Prices      Price by 30%            1991 Prices    Price by 30%
(Ha)                   (%)              (9)                      (%)            (%)
Shallow Tubewells by Drillin!
1.0                /                                       86               56
0.5                93               63                     37               20
0.2                29               16                      3               -5
Shallow Tubewells by Washboring
1.0                                                        A/ ,             90
0.5                /                a!                     64               40
0.2                53               30                     17                7
,/    More than 100%.
6.5   Assuming a 21 percent cost of financing, when the farmers grow only vegetables, or a
combination of vegetables and grains, the financial returns are attractive for all farm-sizes with
washbores. The financial returns are also attractive for farm sizes greater than 0.5 ha with only
grains. The financial returns are not attractive for grains when output prices decline by 30% for
farms less than or equal to 0.50 ha. This shows that water-sharing or sharing of pumps would
play a key role for farms less than 0.50 ha and that FUAs should help farmers to develop this
sharing mechanism through a rental market for pumps. The analysis also shows that for farms of
less than or equal to 0.5 ha the risk of price fluctuations is high if irrigation is based on the
drilled shallow tubewell. Thus the full cost recovery mechanism elaborated in Annex XVIII is
financially viable for farm sizes greater than 0.5 ha. For smaller farms, water sharing or sharing
of the pump would play a crucial role. Most of the fadama farmers who have farm sizes greater
than 0.5 ha, would find the project financially attractive without sharing wells or selling water to
others.
C.   Economic Analysi
6.6  For the economic analysis at farm level, the cost of tubewells, by drilling and washboring,
along with the pump, has been estimated to be N 10,362 and N6,837, respectively, which takes
into account the shadow exchange rate (USS 1.00 = N 12.5) and the shadow cost of labor
(Annex XVII). The following analysis reveals that washboring is justified for vegetables and
grain crop combinations for all farm sizes, while drilling is not justified for all crop combinations
for the farm size less than 0.50 ha. Only farm sizes greater than one hectare are viable when
farmers grow only grain in both seasons. However, that is not the case with the tubewells drilled
for farm sizes less than 1.0 ha when only grains are grown, and tubewells by washboring for



- 39 -
farm sizes less than 0.5 ha. For such farms, sharing of water and pumps at a market clearing
rate would be crucial for economic viability, and the FUAs have a major role to play in
developing such sharing mechanisms. Moreover, since the grains require substantially less labor
input than vegetables it is feasible to irrigate more than 0.5 ha per shallow tubewell.
6.7  The economic rates of return are substantially less than the financial rates of return. For
example, the FRR for the farm size of 0.5 ha. with shallow tubewell by drilling and for a
cropping pattern of grains and vegetables is 93%, while the ERR is 62%. The difference is more
pronounced for the farms growing only grains. Substantially subsidized prices of fertilizer, which
is a crucial input for irrigated agriculture, and the restrictions on the import of grains, particularly
wheat, are the reasons for such differences. The difference between the border price ar-d the
farmgate price of rice is not significant while that for wheat is significant (Annex XVII). The
elimination of the fertilizer subsidy would not adversely affect the demand for fertilizer by fadama
farmers because of high returns on fadama farming as long as they allocate some land for
vegetables or achieve economies of scale in water use if they have to grow only grans. Lifting
of the import bans would affect the financial viability of tubewells on farms of less than 1.0 ha
and growing only grains. However, as the general practice in Nigerian agriculture is to grow a
combination of grains and vegetables, the lifting of the import bans would not make the
investment in tubewelts financially unattractive. Moreover, increase in the yield of various
grains, expected to be achieved by 20-70% under the proposed NATSP because of adoption of
improved practices, would substantially increase the rate of return from grain production. The
following table shows that if the present yield of grains increases by 10% shallow tubewells
drilled for the farm size of 0.5 ha become economically viable. Farmers can also grow a third
crop of cowpeas per year after wheat is harvested. This would further increase the economic
returns.
Economic Rates of Return at Farm Level (1991 Prices)
Farm Sizes             Vegetables and Grains              All Grains
(Ha)                       (%)                            (%)
10% increse
Present yield    in yield
Shallow Tubewells by Drilling
1.0                          /                      20         39
0.5                          62                     - 1         12
0.2                          15                    -15         -9
Shallow Tubewells by Washborine
1.0                         A                       43         71
0.5                          a/                      14         30
0.2                          36                      -5         2
, More than 100%.



VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.    Indirect Benefits
7.1    Contribution to Food Security and Poverty Alleviation Goals. I3/ Because of its
limited scope, this project would not have a direct impact of major proportions on Nigerian
agriculture. Its importance lies in the fact that it would establish a model for rapid further
development of the fadamas. As the fadamas are Nigeria's major undeveloped agricultural
resource and when developed for irrigation may contribute up to 2 percent per year to the
growth of agricultural production, they are extremely important for increasing incomes of
farmers and achieving food security. Furthermore, the fadamas in Kano and Sokoto are
located in the Sahelian zone where, because of low and erratic rainfall, the returns to upland
agriculture are very low and off-season unemployment is high and therefore the majority of
the farmers are poor. Fadama irrigation would substantially increase incomes of these
farmers and would also increase the demand for labor. In contributing to the overall food
supply in the country, the development of small-scale irrigation on the fadamas would help
ease the pressure to farm more marginal land and thereby contribute to the preservation of
land resources. In this context it is important that this project be implemented and that it
succeeds. This fortuitous combination of soils and water resources is too important and too
valuable to be developed on an ad hoc basis which might result in a number of environmental
and social abuses and fail to meet the full potential to satisfy the needs of Nigeria.
7.2    Benefits to Farmers. The availability of pumped irrigation water to farmers not only
enables them to double their cropping intensities, but also provides them with a high degree of
protection from drought and risk reduction. This is very important in this Sahelian region in
which the risk of drought is very high and the consequences severe because of the individual
farmer's very limited food or financial reserves. This benefit also spills over very directly to
the remainder of the community, because of the high population density in Kano and Sokoto
States and the large numbers of people that depend on locally-grown staples.
7.3    The individual farmer's ownership of the wells and the pumpsets gives him
considerable independence in selecting crops, cropping patterns and times of planting. Within
the limitations applied by the climate, this enables him to adjust his crop timing to try for
maximum benefit from market conditions and labor availability. It also enables him to adjust
irrigation schedules in accordance with observed crop needs rather than being tied to a type of
strict rotation of large-scale irrigation schemes, where the farmer has limited control over
water allocation. In theory, this should lead to improved use of the water resource. These
choices that become available to the farmer also demand a certain sophistication and expertise
that may not be available at the outset of the project. Training and experience will be
required for the farmers to gain the full benefit from their access to irrigation water.
7.4    Technology Transfer. The tubewell and washbore technology that forms the basis for
this project is simple yet effective. It has provided the foundation of extensive and successful
development of irrigated agriculture in India, Pakistan and other countries, and has proven to
be very successful on a limited scale in Nigeria. The simplicity of the technology has been
13/   World Bank, "Strategy for Food and Nutrition Security", Report No. 9040-UNI,
November 10, 1990.



- 41 -
the key to its success elsewhere and there is no reason why it should not make a major
contribution to the increased food production in Nigeria. It is very much cheaper than large-
scale irrigation and is less prone to bureaucratic control. The specific areas for technology
transfer in this project are: water well drilling; water management; improved tillage
technologies; and improved crop management.
7.5    The participation of Nigerian and international companies in tubewell drilling, and the
training and experience associated with this, would expand local capabilities in rotary rig
drilling technologies. At the same time, the training of small-scale contractors for bailer rigs
and washbore drilling would develop a capability in this type of operation. By the conclusion
of this project it is envisaged that there would be ample indigenous capability to maintain the
existing wells and to establish those required for future fadama expansion.
7.6    Health  The farmers owning wells in fadama areas already developed for small-scale
irrigation report that one of the major benefits they experience is the access to clean domestic
water. Groundwater is uncontaminated and contributes to a marked improvement in public
health, particularly with respect to gastro-intestinal complaints. During irrigation, pumped
water from the wells is delivered directly into the field where the retention time of ponded
water is relatively short, especially in the dry season when most of the irrigation will be
practiced. There are no canals or night storage facilities which might act as breeding grounds
for mosquitoes or snails. As a result, the incidence of malaria and schistosomiasis that is
frequently associated with tropical irrigation systems is unlikely to be increased above present
levels and may even be reduced.
7.7    Environmental Imnagt. The past development of fadamas was not based upon a
proper EA in terms of its effect on other users of fadamas such as pastoralist, fishermen and
wildlife. The EA of fadama development at national level will help in developing a national
capability for implementing EAs.
B.    Direct Benefit
7.8    Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the entire project
excluding the cost of full-scale EA of future fadama development is estimated to be 24%
assuming that the life of the small irrigation pump is five years and the life of wells is 10
years (Annex XVII). All investments made in tapping shallow groundwater at farm level
within the project area will, therefore, have been replaced with new pumps within eight years.
7.9   The ERR is calculated on the basis of: (a) net incremental benefits with and without
the project; (b) farm inputs priced without subsidies or taxes; and (c) labor inputs and other
local costs converted to shadow values using an SCF of 0.85. The prevailing market wage
rate for 1991, the year for which the data are used, was N20.0 per day, while the economic
wage rate is taken to be N117 per day. Project benefits derived from incremental outputs of
paddy, wheat and vegetables were valued at border farm-gate prices.
7.10   For estimating incremental output it was assumed that each pumpset would irrigate
only 0.5 ha with an equal area under wheat and vegetables in the dry season, as against its
potential for irrigating 2.0 ha. Given these very conservative assumptions, the ERR of 24%
is attractive. This ERR would be substantially increased by bringing all of the area of



- 42 -
100,000 ha developed by the project under irrigation during the dry season which would
require the removal of constraints on tillage at the farm level and increasing the yield of
wheat and vegetables from the 2 t/ha and 9 t/ha, that have been assumed here, to the
realizable potential of 2.5 t/ha and 15 t/ha. at farm level. Such technological change in dry-
season cultivation requires special efforts which are planned under the proposed NATSP.
Sensitivity analysis with respect to costs and output prices shows that, when the costs increase
by 10 percent and the ouput prices decrease by 10%, the ERR drops to 15 percent. Thus the
project remains economically viable.
7.11 Increased CrooDing Intensities and yields. At present almost all the land that will be
developed for small-scale irrigation is used for a single crop during the wet season, giving a
cropping intensity of about 1. The introduction of irrigation can safely be assumed to double
intensity because farmers will grow wheat and vegetables such as tomatoes, onions and
peppers in the dry season as a cash crop. Several other types of vegetable can be grown,
such as chick peas, green peas, and spinach. More industrious farmers may also opt for a
third, short-season crop such as cowpeas, lettuce or other leafy vegetable frcm April to June,
between the wheat harvest and the planting of the rice. In calculating the project benefits it
has been assumed that this intensity would not be achieved within the project life, because of
constraints imposed by the scarcity of labor at key times and the scarcity of amimal or
mechanical traction.
7.12   Rice yields are likely to increase significantly as a result of the introduction of
irrigation and the farmer's ability to compensate for dry periods in the croppiing season by
delivering water to the crop. In addition to this, however, it is assumed that management
would improve as a result of the programs that have been included in the project for the
improvement of tillage, water management and pest control. With irrigation, the paddy yields
are expected to increase from the current rather low figure of 2.5 t/ha to abou.t 3.5 t/ha.
7.13   Employment Generation. The project would generate additional emplDyment of about
3.7 million man-days because of the high labor-intensity of fadama cultivatior, under
irrigation.
C.    Risks
7.14   Excessive Use of the Resources. The enthusiasm of farmers for fadama irrigation
could lead to localized overuse of the groundwater resources. The precise behavior and
capabilities of all the aquifers is not known at present due to the exploratory nature of the
groundwater surveys carried out to date. It is thus possible that slow recherge and
excessively close location of wells would from time to time result in the failure of the wells.
The same may happen as a result of extended periods of drought. The potential for such
occurrences adds an element of urgency to the monitoring and water management studies that
have been included in the project design.
7.15   Poor Cost Recovery. It is possible that there would be some fa-mers who fail to
repay loans provided by the project for drilling wells and for pumps. This risk would be
greatly reduced by ensuring that measures specified for orderly debt service are put in effect.
These include: (a) the pledging of the pumps to the SIAs until their costs are fully repaid; (b)



- 43 -
the locking of wells for defaulting users; and (c) the use of WUAs to monitor and ensure
required debt service of its members.



-44 -
VIll. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1    Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto states have already met the following
conditions:
(a)    employment by the SIAs of an irrigation engineer and contract administrator
under the TSC, and completion of the internal reorganization of the Fadama
Development Department (paras 3.19 and 5.3);
(b)   selection of 2,000 ha of fadamas and farmers by using the agreed criteria
(para 5.6);
(c)   finalization of the by-laws for FUAs (para 5.15);
(d)    organization of 40 FUAs (para 5.6);
(e)    preparation of a program of full-cost recovery from farmers, based on the
guidelines given in Annex XVIII (para 5.10);
(f)   finalization of the terms of reference for soil survey, cadastral survey, and the
study on the relationship between farmers and pastoralists (paras 3.18 and
3.22); and
(g)    completion of the procurement schedules for the life of the project (para 4.7).
8.2    During negotiations, ihe following assurances and agreements were obtained:
By Effectiveness
(a)    at least one state will have signed the subsidiary loan agreement (para 4.4);
and
(b)   the draft bidding documents for contracts for drilling, import of pumps and
road construction will have been prepared in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.7);
At Disbursement
(c)   for Bauchi State, Bauchi State ADP Executive Committee would be
reconstituted to have at least two representatives of the FMAWRRD (paras.
4.9 and 5.1); and
(d)    under the NFF, the FGN will have established NFFCC and its Secretariat
(paras. 4.9 and 5.17).



- 45 -
Other Assurances and Agreements
8.3   (a)    The shallow tubewell program will be implemented entirely by contract by
ICB. However, as and when there is a case for LCB, the Bank will give due
consideration to the Borrower's request (paras 4.5 and 4.6);
(b)    Farmers under the shallow tubewell program will be selected by using the
agreed criteria (para 5.6);
(c)    SIA's will finance drilling and installation of pumps and fully recover the cost
from farmers by implementing the agreed cost-recovery program (para 5.10);
(d)    FUAs will be independent organizations and will not receive any subvention
from the Government (para 5.15);
(e)    FUAs will adopt by-laws satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
provisions for revenue generation (para 5.15);
(f)    The FUA Division will submit to FACU, APMEU and the Bank, every six
months, a report outlining its activities (para 5.15);
(g)    Eligibility criteria for the selection of the states under the NFF will include
completion of shallow aquifer studies, full-scale EA studies, demarcation of
areas for fadama development and establishment of the FUAs of interested
farmers (para 3.26);
(h)    The NFF will be administered by the NFFCC (para 3.26);
(i)    The first five applications for financing under the NFF will be sent to the
Bank for review after approval by the NFFCC. Thereafter, only proposals
costing more than US$ 1.0 million will be jointly appraised by FACU and the
Bank (para 5.18);
(j)    FACU will organize workshops on results of EA studies in accordance with
the schedule agreed with the Bank (para 3.21);
(k)    The SIAs with assistance of FACU will prepare and submit to the Bank, every
year no later than August 31, an annual work program for: (i) the areas to be
drilled; and (ii) fadama infrastructure to be constructed (paras 4.13 and 5. 11),
including creative contracting to progressively transfer the greater part of
fadama development activities to the private sector, to be developed by the
SIA, along the lines of Chapter 2 of the SAR and in consultation with the
Bank (para 4.7);
(I)    All key staff such as Program Manager, Financial Controller, Irrigation
Engineer, Irrigation Agronomist, Contract Administrator, other technical
assistance staff and Procurement Officer, auditors and study teams will have
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para
4.6);



- 46 -
(m)   All bidding packages for goods and works over US$200,000 equivalent will
be subject to prior review by Bank (para 4.6);
(n)   Each SIA, FACU and APMEU will have its accounts audited annually by a
firm of independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited
accounts will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (para 4.12); and
(o)    A mid-term review of the project will be prepared by March 31, 1994 by a
joint FACU/World Bank team (para 5.19).
8.4   Based on the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a loan to the
Federal Republic of Nigeria of US$67.5 million on standard IBRD terms with 20 years
maturity.



- 47 -
Page I of I
ANNEX I
Table 1
PotWil bigable Am (ha.) I/
in Middle nd Notthtn Zone Stw
SWt.            Total Available                                     IRIUOATON PaO NTIAL
Fadam                  Wuahbo                   Lift             Flood      Total
.                      Iri.             Control
Tub"wells                (Dizet           & Other
Pumpins          Methoda
BDetchi          235000                    71000                    100000           10000    IS1000
Dmuae            298000                    70000                    1S0000           10000    230000
Bomo             5SO000                   100000                    100000           55000    2S5000
agolA            995000                   330000                    350000           20000    700000
ICadUnh          81000                     5085                     40000            7800      52885
Kano             163000                    26000                    8O00             20000    132000
Ka:bi            46000                     25000                     11000           4000      40000
KWaM             100000                    12150                    50000            50C0      67150
Niger            110000                    17150                     14700           27150     59000
Plateu           166000                    70000                    80000            8000      158000
Sokot            400000                   140000                     16000           800       164000
Tota            3144000                   866385                    997700         174950    2039035
1/      The data are for the states in middle and northern zone stat prior to the  rmtion of
new states in August 1991.



- 48 -                    Annex II
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX II
Table 2
Irrigated Area in 1990 (ha.)
in Middle and Northern Zone States 1/
______________________________________________________________
States2/ Washbores  Lift Irrig.    Diversions       Total
&       (Direct        Flood Control
Tubewells  Pumping)       and Other
Methods
--------------------------------------------------------------
Bauchi      4700   15000              1000             20700
Benue          0    2000               500              2500
Borno       1050   16500              3050             20600
Gongola      100    1300              2000              3400
Kaduna       300   12000                 0             12300
Kano        5500   54000              3700             63200
Katsina      250      500                0              750
Kwara          0      400                0              400
Niger          0    2500              5600              8100
Plateau      141   10500              1000             11641
Sokoto      6000   13000               500            19500
Total      18041  127700             17350            163091
1/ Zero means the area under that particular
type is negligible.
2/ The data are for the middle and northern zone
states prior to the creation of new states in
August 1991.



- 49 -
lm ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ so                       so
Tdle 3: =
1963          80              -                                    SO
1914         300             632                32                964
1985         500             944               136              1,So0
196          470           1,002               663              2,135
196?         460              700              875              2,035
1968       1,138             567               531              1,736
2969        1,177          1.200             1,000              2,877
1990 /        600            SOO             2,500              3,600
Totat       4,725          S,545             S,737              15,007
Potentil  71,000          26,000           140,000             237,000
umzUUwuauuUsguuauuuUwuuuuumSaRaSuauuusinuauamau
Direct Plim  Surfte  Wter
1963          115          2,000                                 2,115
1964           95          3,368                                3,463
1965        1,230          6,056             1,304              9.S90
1986        1,630          4,000             1,289              6,919
1967        3,125          8,300               934              12.359
1988        2,912          5,543             1,000              9,455
969        3,000          6,000             1,000              10,000
i99         3,200          6,900             1,000              11,600
Total      15,307         42.167             7,527              77.501
Potential  100,000         86,000           16,000             202,000
,Floot Catrel ond Other Nhtha
1983
l94
1985
1966           IS0          1,100               S0               1,300
1987           150          1,100              100               1,350
198            260           600               125                 965
1989           290           500               125                 915
1990           150           400               100  .650
TotaL        1,000         3,700               500               5,200
Potential   10,000         20,000            6,000              38,000
-
For erstibf te,io Kod dsooto states prior to cretion of new states in A t 1991.
The data are an the  i, r of webbores ad thlwrts drilted uto Septembr 1990.



AUMI IVRITIME VISII, CWOEllT STATS AND lUIASTIS STPS FOII FADMM WNW
Vision                      Current Stats.                                                 Tramition Stqe
mid lemon                              I                            11                             III
f3toSl      )                 (bout6yrs) )                    (bt5y S
MISJECTXiW  IRRIIATIs SI.EC   T
with the prsent high        Agricultural grwut. with        Aost ubanteIlly amp"           ADPs reduc tlwir irwolvemat    UPf coqetely withdria  from
population groth In Nigeria *mil c_ ntribution of           thelr epmniture an fad_        In those fadme detelopnt        the activitles done by the
agricuttural groth entirely  Irrigation is *lmot            by _awsing their resources  activities wber private setor  privete sector awd other
bsd on rainfed famirn       entirely basd an reInted        with the wbrld  un finsnce.   Is increaing Its rote in meting speciatized agencies.
It not niremttoly           falng.                                                       the dmnd f rem farers for 
sutainable beos It                                          DOPf dlep pr_w for             ervices for irrigtion 
leads to a rapid ares       Tere is gong         d for      widwr participation of        develosnt
ejipansion d_mglng sois     f1d    Irrigaticn but tbe       private sctor In fadi
& forest. This could he     public nd privete  ectwo        dleq_mt
awvded by eaploitine        haw  not adequately repd
the untapped high petentilt  by providing adeute service    Accelerate pae of irriagtion   Accelerate pac of irrigation    Accelerate pace of Irrigation
for the wall-scale, frm    such #s:                         dv_lq -nt to bring a total   dvelqPent to bring a total       dwelopent to bring a total
mnagsd, highly profitable   (I) techtology   extension,     of 30,000 be. pe awm In        Of 0.000 IMh. par  o Au ibiCh    of 60000 ha. at nationat
irripion in the fads.    (11) fad    infrwtructure.         sauchl. Jigl_, KNOi  KMbl    are, nvirmumty safe             lfvlt per  nit  Ich ae
(III) Credit,                   Sokoto hew  Up.t av coleted                                   wwiro,untally safe.
The gwovnent shuld give   (iv) arketinge                    piaoring pror  of mi_-   Ewiranwal ation plan for
hilh priority to ftma       Cv) _    aim I ant  protection   scale irritption              f dI  d       _m t i
irriation in sltocetiq op  t                                                               lpawted.
publi  sctor resouce  for  Past pulic setor resou           Enwirhwstel Assesment Is
activities thick belon  to   skosdly altocated tesud        comleted
the public sctor.           tl bigh  ot, lou return
lerga-escee Irrigatfon schem
Aru tly 80,000 he. ned                piontred l n prtinw                                                                                                   I
to be bswt under f_m   fted_ irrigation but tbe                                                                                                           ,
,                                                                                    , *; *eed  h711OiC



trr1utimn.                    pce of deetopment has been
slto idth les then 15.000 be.
Irrigation des elormmt        beIta  brous*t anu lly wader
ohould be uwirmen telly.    the fdm   Irrigation. Nxairm
tmtitutlonmtiy nW             eapital _aenilture per ADP
fi mmislly sustainable.       per wuon ha bem  onlty  1  n.
on fad develop ent coqpsred
to the need allocation of at
lteet *5 mdilion
EawIrm.entsl .utamb tlIty
of Irrigatimn dvleaprmt at
* rapid pao Is yet to be
assessd.
The fadm  irrigation at fam
level is sustainblo In term
of mintennc. becuse  It fs
entirely asged by farmrs.
Institutional  ustainmbilty of
*ccelerated pac of Irrigation
deelopm ent woud reqyire
Invelv_nt of the private
sector &  gncles like Swim.
Progrm Is financsltly
sustainable becae except
for few uAPe the cost is
fully recovered from frmner.
CUKO SAlK SECTO  LENDING STRATEGY
..................................
Vision of the Bank Soetor     Each state. except for bauchi.   hatforol level projects            Continuation of ftdrm  project   Continmatfon of feadb  project      -0
strategy is the ma os          Jiueawa  Ko. Knebbi & Sokoto      with few ceonents an areas    to iptlement Transition              to implement Transition            w 
ha .Alti-cqxsnent RAPs with      auch as teclinclogy s port       Step 11 described below.          Step III dcribed belo.                X
'0



mIt fedm  dlpet                   & fa_  deelo_nt to be
component                         Ispli ted throuh APf.            tetlonat level projects           Matlontl level projects
an technology, upprt and          an tecrnoleof g pport and
Agricultural Deelopi nt tusd  protectfen of raturel resource   protectlen of neturel r eurc
for lpervng state goenmnt
Iupuiwitur .                    DF It
Sector wert on rural financlol  tural financigl Sector Loan I    tural firnuria  Sector toan it
_rkets.
Fertiliter Sletor Adjustmnt
Credit.
Preparation of sector strategy Project on large-scale
for large-cte Irrigation        Irrigation.
program.
1. NEEDED SEVICE: TECIoLOGY & EXTENSION
tp-to-date esaesennt of       DPet such as those In Bauchi.   Cowpletion of sheilo  *aqulfer   Completion of shalloi aquifer
irrigation potential which    Jl_gaw   Kduse wana Kebbi &        studies In romainng states      studies in remaining states
Includs techniqes like        Sokoto bae  completed ehalleu
direct pimping frm surtfce   aquifer urveys nd have              Micro studies on shalluow         icro studies on shellow          Micro studies an shallow
aterr  groundumt*r pmping    introdUced sleple technique  of  aquifer  In states Aere mcro  aquifers In states Wwere *acro    aqufers in states inhere mero
a other water hrve  tin       drilling but with limited          studies ha  ben cospleted        studies hae been completed        studies haew  been completed
ethods.                        cvevreg                           for reducing Incidance of        for reducing Incidence of         for reducing Incidence of
dry mille dhile drilling        dry walls WAile drilling          dry wells Aille drilling
Easy acsess to farers A       Limited asssment of potential
private trader  to the         for varlous water harvesting      Coptteo the assesent of          cowplete asessment of various
tehnology & related           *cthods In fadeoas ha  ben         variou water harvesting         water harvesting _ thods
Information an irriagtion     dne.                               methods.
developmnt such as the
grourdsater resources,        Post efforts focussed m_inly on  More rearch nd *xtenslon          Nore research  nd extension         More reseearb *nd extens ion
drilling techniques etc.       agronmy for rainfed crop.         on driling I water harvesting  on drilling I water harvesting    en drilling S water harvesting  x
and irrigation agroneey.                                         technology,  irrigation          technology,  Irrigation           technology,  irrigation            w x
0 0



No training proegrm  designed      agronoy & groumnduter            agronomy & groundsmater            agronomy & erouxhmter
for private drillers, artisan  &  Information involving farers  informtien involving farmers           inform_tion Involving famner
traders by the lDPs.               A other private sector people. & other private sector peopte.    & other private sector people.
2. NtEDED SERVICE: FDANA INFEASTRCTUItE
Swataindete davetcont of    Secaue little ws w nokn about   ADPs contract out both access   ADPs contract out both access             ADPs contract out both access
Infrastrucutre which includes the potential for fd m              a-nd fadb   road construction   and fdem  road construction         and fademe road construction
m_inly rood construction     devlo  nt unttil recently            to private constructors,  nd    to private constructors, *d         to private constructors, nd
drilling activitie  & market virtually no construction of         study direct or Indirect cost   operatiolenize direct cost          operationt1ize full
devilopo nt.                   fadm  roads uas undertaken         recovery mechanisms,             recovery mechanism from            cost recovery mechanism from
by the ADPs except for the                                          beneficiaries,                     beneficiaries.  Indirect cost
LOPs contract out the          recent work done by Kaduna ADP.  Mointenance of roads by                                               recovery mechanisms would               w
construction to the private   Pest feeder reed construction       FIJAs & LtCs.                    Maintenance of f edema  roads      include market cess, profit
sector.                        prorer focussed entirety on        ADPr provide technical           by FUAs & access roads             sharing between FuAs
the upland areas.                  assistance.                      by LCCs. LDPs provide technical   & ADPs/LGCs etc.
Naintenance & wher  aver                                                                           assistwnce.
possible the cost recoevry    Som  experence exists now  In       AOPs contract out driling to                                        Maintenwnce of fadams roads by
to be don  by the LOCs.        contracting out feeder road        private sector on behalf of      ADPs contract out dritilng to      FUlAs & access roads
contruction                       formers 9 recover the cost       private sector on behalf of        by LCCs. AOPs provide
Full coat recovery of fd o                                        fully from farers. Farmers       farmers Individoally or            technical assistance.
roads from formrs Atils        Recently 4000 ha. of fed ia        put initial deposit.             In groms only In areas  were
cces roads from the LGs.   Ird we su ccessfully contracted                                         private contractors are not        Orilling activity Is entirely
to the private sctor for          Pank to mnitor financial         m_rketing drilling activities,    left to the private sector.
orilling activities to be      tu _  lls by the Sokoto ADP        condition of AWPs  nd mke        Farmers put initial depsit.
contracted by farmers          he re the cost Is to be fully    s*b sdies. If uw. transperent.
directly to private drillers. recovered fro  farmers.
otherwise In other states  DPs   ADPs   dertake studies for
drill mills for farmers.           market development for fadma
Pace of drilling by ADPs has       crops sAich include, storage                                                                          la >.
benv vry slow de to ltack of        nd agro-processing of fadamo                                                                         b 2
adequate Institutional support.   crops.                                                                                                   |
0<



3. lEU   SERVICEU: FIAClIAL IUTEUSiATI IE
dM & twn  tem cedit    Infhrml swAa of credit                  DAPs finwnc  irriptimn          Wh f liinen* only traders ud     AIPs copletety uithdra
n     of farme  I trader    pride ewly  wrt tam credit   dweetlI t at fam llt a_d   drii ls for Irrigation                      from financing famr
for developing V dm  we    beause of the perceived rfsk of fully recovwr the acot from        delopent ieo reowver the          for fadm  dmlqwnt
m_t by existfrg forwat A      recovery for the _mdtus to lons  farmes & trader by using        cost fran farme.                 ed le the tsk to the
Informa lontitut10n.         term credit. Collateral * other  hire*purcha re s      *Itbh e   n                                 finwcisl Institutins.
Uilth rapid  ovwth In         procedural requirsm_nts as well  their amu or by usiln formal   APs proresively Iulthdr"
Inco   from fadme            o  Infrastructure of fomt         institutien  & ru  as their   frmo tinning Irrigation
Irrligtion farmer mitt n    financial intermdIaries  re        ant.                           dsvelp nt * the forml
adequate fuclities to sav   inadbqpate for meeting the demand                                  fin ncial intermedlries
a pert of theIr inom.        for the term loan & savins                                        ar strengthened throuok
of their Income frm their.  fre  _ml, scattered *                                              special project asistmei.
iliterate faersrs & troders.                                     for Incressingly oeeting the                                           Ln
demand for the tero loane
Some AM   have tried hire-       ADfs comsseIon cadestral        with better effIilency than
purchs scheme for pAus while  surveye to facilitate lesnce ADPs.
othe  to provicde credit         of the certificae  of
liaiso  service to farme.        occurrncy by L*CC.
Special proog    are
*anka are willing to provide     Special pogrm  wre desipird Ioplamnted to strengthen financat
credit If farme  provide mutual to strwethen fiinciatl mrket. mrket.
ntee or certific te of
Ocancy.
4. NEEDED0 UVIEs U       IZING FARKAS
Individia fadm  fam          There we smral successful         IIDP oranie ftedm  form        ADPs organize fadam farmrs        ADPe contract out the activity
ar* very _tll In site & do  exlan of fwrr group                at villas  ltenl by building   at village levl durlng the        of orgnlzing formr to
not offer ad_t salet for  minly fored by VWes for              an th  existire infolmal t      proces of contracting            the privete sector  Ofto ad
technicallt  nd ocomically  activities, *e.. ushbor            formal grops. duirn the         irrigation d   lowmnt nd         cooperative deprtmnt I  IPs 
optli_  use of drilling       in KInoe veetable  marketing     proces of contracting          the rolated cost recovery,        ph" out their direct role        oo 
o C
0



equpwints p_qp, credit    In KIno md Iuehl term Ion            rrigation dlepmnt wnd                                           In the ean except for
& maketing facitities.        from Banks in auchi wi   morn,  the rolated coat recovry.         DPs increasingly inwolve        keeping a smtl progrm of
In viet  of this censtraint   tubmwil drilling in KaIdu                                        private sector. NMOs &           trainins.
ijority of fadn faes   and Sekoto w  controlled                ADPs lIwolve privte sector,   cooperatives in orgniting
vill form assciatio  for    flooding In Kbo. Sustainabillity   GO I cooperatiw departments  ferwes in order to create
facilltating cntracting of  of such groups is uncertain.       by contracting out the activity such capacity in those
Irrigation daplont to                                          of orgnizing farmrs in          agencies.
private sector, setting tem  Fed   farerse  n their amn do   order to creaste such capacity
credit, mrketing seter,      not take Intitiatives In formIng  in thoe agenciles.
monitor  ater use _rketing  asocitions becaus of lack of
ouspt etc.                   ctear knowtede about modern
tectniqe of Irrigation & hoe
to orgnize thmelves for using
thoae technique
Foral farmer cooperatives are
largely Inactive.
5. NEEDED SERVICE: CONTACTING FADAIA DEVELOPMENT
Foarr organizations S        Except for the most recent        ADPs design  nd administer      AOPs phase out the activity of   Except for keeing a small
the pLlic sector gwencs   contract for tiemeell drilling    various contracts for fad.    designing   a*tministering            trining unit in contracting
like ADPs dsign varlous        repared by Sokoto ADP, the      developent. In doing so they  contracts for fad_s developeent ADPs phase out the activity of
creative contracts for       AOPt hav  done lIttle in          create capcity in farmer        as the farmer organizations      designing & adinistering
optlmlly using C set ts    involving the private setor.    orgnizations for acinistering develop the related skills.            fadas developent
aupmnting the private sctor                                    the contracts,                                                   as the farmer organizatiIons
capcity in fadt               Private sector cpacity exists                                                                     develop the related skills.
In mrketing of psqa, drittling
wells,  d mrketing loctally a
wel as exporting crops.
OQ :
x
Os
o 4
0<



So VEES UENVICE: IULY OF 11Pl
Marketing of puips is          ADPe hav  nev e utilized the      ADPe operate a foreign echW AnDPs operate a forelgn exchange   aDP operate foreign ecsange
coptetely privatized.          existing private trade for pump   window at lotl banks to          window at local banks to          windw at local  wtst to
except for lopwrting in bulk for  finance Imports of pAu pnd    fliwcne private sector Inports   finance privae* sector  poerts
FASCtEs usin the Sank loan.       stop aahsidized sales of         of irripgtion eq.ipeients.        of irrigation *uIpment.
FASCOOU  *tlls at retail          FASCONs.
level at subsidlzed prices                                        Project finaning for               Project financing for
undercutting traders. in          AOPs privwttse FAesrS at         local ennufcturing of pqpe.       local m_rufacturing of pAps.
spite of this the private         retail le el
trading for pops hos
been growing and Irrigation       FACA coasI lons study on the
by the direct pting of rwrface  feasibility of local
water boo grown at much faster   msncufacturlng of pu ps.
rate than tubewell Irrigation.
This Is because the former
needw no investment In servlce
like drilling.
Sb NEBO  VECltE : PUKP INSTALLATIOU
Privet, drillers meet the     Private sector capacity exists    AOPs contract wit drilling        AfPs start rAisino out             DPs rcoeletely withdraw from
dmesod for instatlltion of   but the farmr  Idmnu is not met but provide pumps wd                 financing of the pup              the instaltation activity once
pump  from faromr at price. due to lack of economies of          recover the full coat from       Installation and mow tomards      the vision is realized.
aff ordable to both.          scale perceived by the private   fa rer                             contracting out drilling &
sector nd *socisted risk.                                          pwp  upply on bihatf of           Nomwee  ADPs mintafn a smel
Thls hs affected overall          ADPt introduice  ncentives in   fareer ganizattlon; Wille          training unit In drilling
poce of dsvelopment of            the contrSot for driiler  to    finwncing and cost recovery        tdchnology.
Irrigation.                       provide pA r   0d pertly         is dbn  by the bones.
undertake the risk of                                                                                   >
orgmainizi   farms                                                                                  "
0 <



recovering costs.
ADPs provide technical
aselatence to farmer
organiation in the design
& adeinistration of centracts
ADPe train local artlsans in
s*Iple Instalistion techniques
like uashbores, bailer rigs etc.
and also m_intenance of wells.
Sc NEEDED SERVICE: NAIKETIUG OF CROPS
-1
High value crop  like          Due to poor storage and            ADPs finance construction of    ADPs finance construction of       ALPs phase out the activity
vegetables are,                mrketing infrastructure            storage by contract & hand       storage by contract & hand         of contract design &
orown on fadm e   ich          eermny t mes farmers find It       over meintenance to the FUIs    over maintenance to the FURs        awhinistration but maintain
hae  good store  and           difficult to get remunerative                                       which farmer organizations         a small training unit.
m*rketing Infrastructure,      prices for perishable crops like                                    later take over.
nd stable nd groaing           vegetables.
d nd
Few traders in Kano have           ADP  organize fadmJ  farmers    AoPs organize fadei farmers
successfully ventured into          nd contract fed  a              and contract fede
outgrouer progrma for fadim        develo p  nt to traders for      developoent to traders for
crops for *eort to London          ougrower progrem for export      ougrower progrem for export
share large untapped demnd         marketing and/or agro-           marketing and/or agro-
exists. These traders are          processing.                      processing Wio fully recover
Interested In expanding their                                       cost for IDAs.
buiness but are constrained
by financial resources &           ADPs train farmer                AOPs train farmer
capacity to further organize       organizations in output          organizations In output
outgromers.                        marketing.                       marketing.
0



6. NEEDED SEtVICE: EWVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Faed    development does not  At present there is no system of Undertake a full environmental  Expend fadam irrigation In           luplement fadbe  develop  nt
have signiflcently advers     monitoring of environmental        assessmnt nd establish In    areas presently not cultivated    in alt sreas which are
Iqmct an enviroment aucb    Impact.                             ADP  monitoring system           but are environeentatly safe.      enviromentally safe.
as rapid depletion of
aqpifers. satinlzation of      In same places activities like    focus fada.. development by      Introduce a comprehensive         Futl iqlementation of a
solla, _rginalization of    controlled flooding have             introducing irrigation for dry environmenatt monitoring system   comprehensive envirornentat
pastoralfst A fishera n       positively helped envirorment by season only In areas presently  for small as well as large scale smnitoring for smal  IL large
wild life  nd pubilc health.  the recharge of fadams. hflie    urder farming In wet season.    irrigation.                          irrigation schemes involving
In sow places conflicts betuemn                                                                      all conrenfed agencies.
Fadm  development leads to  farers & pastoralit have been
a positive lict on            reported over cultivation In the
environment.                  fadams previously used for                                                                                                                   O
grazing.
(ID
o C
M



- 59 -
ANNEX V
Page I of 4
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL OVERVIEW I/
A.    Eicologizcal Context
1.    The flood-prone and poorly drained fadamas are favored with a higher soil moisture
content than adjacent upland soils and are, therefore, more agriculturally productive. Under
natural hydrological conditions in the past, the rivers also deposited rich sediments in the
fadamas during wet season floods which aided in maintaining soil fertility. Grazing animals,
domestic and wild, sought the rich fadama vegetation for forage and in the process added
organic and mineral components to the soil in the form of manure.
2.    Fadamas were not only important to terrestrial plants and animals since many riverine
fish species must use fadama areas for spawning via lateral migrations from the river channel
into the temporarily-flooded fadama depressions. Fish that were trapped in the fadamas as
the flood waters receded were easily harvested by fishermen and became an important food
and income source for communities within or adjacent to fadama areas.
3.    Prior to their conversion to cultivation, the fadamas supported highly productive
natural vegetation consisting of dense acacia scrubland, open grassland and seasonally or
permanently flooded open bodies of water supporting dense emergent vegetation including
rushes, sedges and reeds. The fadamas were an important dry season source of water and
forage for pastoral livestock herds moving into or through the areas from regions to the north.
In addition, the fadamas with natural vegetation supported large and diverse resident or
transient wildlife populations including large herbivores and their associated predators. Even
today, the fadamas are known to be important wintering areas for a vast number of migratory
paleoarctic birds. The Hadejia-Nguru wetlands are one of the few remaining wetlands of
appreciable size in northern Nigeria which has not been converted to cultivation. This
wetland is a focus for a conservation project supported by the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Royal Society for the Preservation of Birds (RSPB) and
the state governments of Kano and Borno. The intent of this project is to conserve some of
the wetlands for migratory birds and other wildlife while encouraging small-scale development
projects for the benefit of local human populations.
4.    Fadamas were a very important hydrological element in the floodplain ecosystems and
to a lesser degree, they retain this function today. By trapping flood waters, the fadamas
dampened the downstream ferocity of flooding and helped to maintain dry season flows as
some the trapped water eventually percolated into the groundwater and then moved laterally to
river channels. This hydrological function has been altered by the construction of numerous
dams which will be discussed in more detail in subsequent paragraphs. It is clear that the
annual river flooding and fadamas are vital for the recharge of the shallow aquifer.
I/    Kano and Sokoto states mentioned in this annex are erstwhile Kano and Sokoto states
prior to the creation of the new Jigawa and Kebbi States from within the area of the
two old states in August 1991.



- 60 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
5.    If much of the fadama area remained in an unaltered state, NFDP would have posed
risks to biological diversity, fishery reduction, social patterns and hydrological regimes.
However, owing to extensive fadama clearing for agriculture and the construction of
numerous large dams on the river systems, the natural conditions that prevailed in the past no
longer exist. The various riverine ecosystems have been altered so extensively that wildlife
and wildlife habitat has basically disappeared, fisheries have already been severely reduced,
social conflicts are becoming more intense and the hydrological regime bears little
resemblance to natural conditions. NFDP would improve economic development in northern
Nigeria without further environmental harm.
B.    Land Use Before Dam Construction
6.    Because of their relatively high soil moisture and fertility, fadamas lands were prized
areas in developing floodplain agriculture. In fadama areas, farmers were able to grow one
crop (usually rice or maize) during the rainy season and then plant dry season crops on the
margins of flooded fadamas utilizing the residual soil moisture to secure a second harvest.
The rich natural vegetation which provided forage for resident and transient livestock
populations was converted to agricultural crops. As more and more fadamas were cleared and
planted, competition for land increased between livestock owners (resident and pastoral) and
settled farmers. However, pastoralists were able to continue their migratory paterns by
utilizing crop residues from rainy season cropland and from natural forage from the few
remaining areas of uncultivated floodplain. The conversion of fadamas to cropland has
continued until the present where a point has been reached that most fadamas have now been
fully converted to wet season rainfed agriculture while a small amount is used for dry season
irrigated cropland.
7.    Even before their conversion to agriculture, fadamas were important in household
economies. Construction material and fuel wood were extracted for local use, reed and
grasses were harvested for roofing material and household items. Hunters and trappers
harvested wildlife populations for bushmeat and women gathered natural plants for food,
medicine and ornaments. Now, very little natural vegetation and precious little wildlife
remains in the densely-populated project states. Bush meat is still a prized dietary item and as
a result of uncontrolled hunting and trapping, most of the larger wild vertebrates have been
exterminated including resident bird populations.
8.    Many fadamas retained open water well into the dry season as a result of the fairly
impermeable underlying soils. In these open water bodies which often covered tens of
hectares, trapped fish prospered on the rich aquatic vegetation and prolific invertebrate
populations. As the water was lost through percolation and evaporation, fishermen (often
women and children) were able to take advantage of large fish yields using relatively
primitive fishing gear. The fish, usually sun-dried, were either sold at local markets to
supplement household income or were used for family consumption. The fadama and river
fish provided a major portion of household dietary protein.
C.    Post-Dam Ln,d US
9.    During the past two decades, the state and federal governments have embarked on an
ambitious program of dam construction with the intent of using reservoirs to support large



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
scale irrigation projects on fadama and adjacent dryland areas. Over thirty dams have been
constructed in the three project states with the largest being Bakolori Dam in Sokoto State.
Further dam construction is being planned. These dams, funded without Bank assistance, were
not subjected to environmental assessment prior to construction. The ecological changes
within these highly productive floodplains are far-reaching, mostly with adverse
environmental, social and economic effects. For a variety of reasons, irrigation development
did not occur at expected rates and presently, most of the reservoirs are either not utilized or
are under-utilized for irrigation. Except for Bakolori, none of the dams were designed for
hydropower generation.
10.   The dams have significantly altered the floodplain hydrology. Annual floods still
occur, but at reduced intensity and duration. As a consequence, recession agriculture on the
floodplain has been seriously curtailed, both in respect to area under cultivation and the
market value of crops being planted. For instance, in some places where farmers previously
cultivated wet season rice, they are now obliged to cultivate sorghum or millet owing to the
reduced flood water and the consequent loss of residual soil moisture. Recharge of the
underlying aquifer still takes place, but in a more restricted zone along the river. Since
environmental studies were not conducted prior to dam construction, there are no baseline
data on the floodplain hydrology from which to make an accurate comparison of
hydrological, or for that matter, agricultural changes. However, anecdotal evidence gained
from farmer interviews in the floodplain makes it clear that the changes were not beneficial
either socially or economically.
11.   The impoundments effectively trap the sediments that were formerly deposited on
fadamas during flood periods. The floodwaters no longer spread the same amount of enriched
silt over the cropland, thereby reducing the natural maintenance of soil fertility.
Increasingly, farmers find it necessary to purchase more fertilizer in order to avoid reduced
yields. It is difficult to measure this effect quantitatively since farmers are growing different
crops (mostly of reduced value) as a result of the hydrological changes wrought by the dams.
12.   Since the water released from the impoundments is carrying less suspended solids, it
is more erosive. Field visits indicate that the river channels have been cut deeper in the
downstream stretches as a result of increased channel bed erosion or river scour. This
scouring lowers the river level relative to the land, thus flood waters will not spread as far
laterally with a consequent reduction of the depth of water in flooded depressions. This
reduction in area and depth limits the amount of lateral fish migration and duration of open
water in the floodplain depressions. Both of these actions have reduced the amount of fish
biomass which is harvested from the fadama flood pools. Without baseline fishery data from
environmental assessments, it would be difficult to quantify the reduction of fish harvests
from the fadamas. Interviews with local fishermen indicate that the losses have been
substantial. These losses are unfortunate as fish provide a relatively low cost source of dietary
protein for poor farming households. These protein losses can only be replaced through the
purchase of higher priced livestock products. Compensatory reservoir fisheries have not
developed as expected.
13.   The lower river level also may have had detrimental effects on groundwater levels. At
lower river level, lateral groundwater movement toward the river would cause more rapid
flood recession than it would have occurred before the rivers were regulated by dams and



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
reservoirs. The river channel has become so deeply scoured in some places that it is possible
to observe the groundwater passing from beneath the fadamna areas to the river surface during
the dry season. This premature draining of groundwater to the river reduces the amount of
residual soil moisture available for dry season cropping.
D.    Environmental Considerations of Fadama Irrigation
14.   The project will not have harmful environmental effects as long as care is taken to
monitor the aquifer so that expansion does not exceed the aquifers capacity to supply
irrigation water. The project has taken this potential hazard into account by including an
extensive groundwater monitoring system to be implemented by the Federal Ministry of Water
Resources. No new fadama clearing will take place as the criteria for farmer selection
requires that only fadama currently under cultivation will be eligible for the pumps and
tubewells supplied through the project. The groundwater monitoring system will indicate the
sustainable limit for the expansion of fadama irrigation. An environmental assessment (EA)
will be conducted as a part of the NFDP to determine if there are other ecological and social
limits to sustainable fadama expansion.
15.   Expanding fadama irrigation in the dry season is likely to intensify conflicts between
livestock owners and farmers. The conflicts between pastoral livestock herders and settled
farmers are already considered to be serious problems, especially by the farmers themselves.
The traditional methods of resolving the conflicts may break down if fadama irrigation
expands too rapidly and will cause an increase in civil actions. The project has recognized
this potential for increased social conflict and one project component will include a social
monitoring study of the interactions between newly established fadama irrigation plots and the
pastoral livestock herders. Many of the livestock incursions on irrigated land stems from
locally owned livestock. The local mechanisms for compensating damage work quite well and
although these livestock damage incidents are likely to increase, the local systems will adjust
as well to keep serious conflicts to a minimum.
16.   As this overview shows, the fadama environments have already undergone severe
modification, mostly to the detriment of local communities and households. To a degree,
NFDP is a means of compensating for natural resources in the recent past without
jeopardizing use of the resources for the future. The groundwater monitoring system is a
critical element to any successful expansion of fadama irrigation. During project supervision,
it is essential to determine that this monitoring is providing effective and timely feedback to
the project management. The project criteria for spacing tubewells or washbores will be
effective in reducing the threat of localized groundwater depletion, but the project can not
control spacing of water sources done in the private sector without project assistance. Yet,
even this possibility has been taken into account through the provision of the groundwater
monitoring system. Thus, in the overall context of project and environment, the project will
not pose any severe environmental threats, but it will improve regional and local economic
development conditions.



- 63 -
ANNEX Vl
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Functions and Working of Fadama Users Association 1/
A.    Functionls of FUA
I1.    The tasks to be performed by Fadama Users Association Unit of the ADPs in
organizing farmers are:
(a)    prepare a list of fadama farmers along with their land holding;
(b)    conduct household survey to find out non-loanee potential fadama farmers;
(c)    compile data and present the results to fadama farmers;
(d)   identify problems and discuss with fadama farmers to find out the solution to
the identified problems;
(e)   test the idea of forming FUA/fadama farmers coop. as a means to solve
problem unitedly;
(f)    adopt resolutions to form society;
(g)    help adopt by-laws;
(h)    collect downpayment from fadama farmers;
(i)    help open books and records;
fj)   introduce pass books for members;
(k)    open bank account;
(Il)   assist in depositing share, members' contribution, savings and other money in
bank;
(m)   help prepare individual and group loan plans
I/    For the details of these as well as by-laws of FUAs, see Working Paper No. 3
Functions and Working of Fadama Users Associations in the Documents in the Project
File.



- 64 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
(n)    plan for the loans for investment to be availed from SIA and bank;
(o)    disburse loans;
(p)    prepare repayment schedule and circulate at the time of disbursement;
(q)    attend weekly/fortnightly and monthly meeting to discuss problems and ensure
collection of loans;
(r)    help members to act as bookkeepers;
(s)    register FUAs; and
(t)    monitor water use.
B.    Physical Target and Manpower
2.    During appraisal of NFDP, the organogram of the SIAs was reviewed and it was
pointed out that there is a need for reorganization of FDD. The existing manpower would be
adequate to carry out the work of organizing fadama farmers into groups provided existing
vacancies are filled up and the staff are made mobile by providing necessary vehicles
(motorcycle). A critical look into the manpower and the task to be accomplished to achieve
project targets suggests that additional staff will not be required in FDD if the project
activities are synchronized with the on-going cooperative re-activization program. There are
numerous cooperatives already in the project area which can be reactivated for the purpose.
During reorganization, the function of the Fadama Development Division and the Fadama
Users Association Unit might be demarcated as follows:
(a)   Identification of fadama land and identification of fadama farmers along with
their land boundaries should fall within the jurisdiction of the Infrastructure
Unit.
(b)    Preparation of the list of potential fadama farmers from the Infrastructure
Unit; household surveys to check non-loanee farmers; assessment of the
resource base; motivation of non-loanee farmers to form groups, keep
records, and adopt bylaw; assistance in the preparation of application for
tubewell, loan application, repayment, etc. should fall under the FUA Unit.
3.    On the basis of the above demarcation and delineation of responsibilities, the job
description of the officials of the FUA Unit should be prepared in line with the project
targets. The present job description will need modifications. As this is an internal
administrative matter, this can be designed by wne Chief of the Division.
C.    Cash Flow of One FUA
4.    The purpose of creating farmers organizations is to build an internal system for
continuity and sustainability. This is true particularly in the case of activities to be completed



- 65 -
ANNEXYVl
Page 3 of 4
within a limited period of time, but their continuity goes beyond the time span of the project.
The participation of the beneficiaries is not only essential beyond the project ife but is also an
integral and indispensible component to carry out the activities during the implementation of
the project. The important element that is required for an organization to sustain and continue
is finance and financial viability is the key to sustainability.
5.    In view of the above, a mode cash flow model for one FUA has been worked out in
the following table. The assumptions have been formulated on the basis of the facts and
information gathered from different sources such as discussions with banks, cooperative
officials, and cooperative leaders. The model shows that FUA can attain a break-even
position from the first year.



- 66 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
CASH FLOW OF A PRIMARY FADAMA USERS ASSOCIATIONS (FUAS)
A. INCOME
.............. .                                                                                     ................... ... .._
YEAR---                     -
No.    Iteme                              1       2      3       4      5      6       7      8      9       10
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                   _. ___.___*................................... .. _.....  
1.   Regiation Fee /                   250       -      -       -      -      -       -      -
2.   Membership contribution 3/       1300    1300   1300    1300   1300   1300    1300   1300   1300    1300
3.   Share /                          7500  1ooo0  12500   15000  17500 20000  2250 25000 27500   30000
4.   Savings I/                       1000   2000  3000   4000  S5O0   6000   7000   8000  9000   10000
5.   Loan inveat re(TL) _/          125000  125000      -       -      -      -       -      -      --
6.   Loan Recovered 2/                   -   41666 83332  83334 41668         -       -      -               .
7.   Short-tem lon invotrment3 /     S0000  s5000  s5000    5M0  5s000 50000  25000 25000 25000  25000
8.   Short-erm loan repaynent 2/         - 50000 50000  5000s   50000 50000  25000 25000 25000  25000
9.   IntereA (TL)j1                      -   21250 35416  21258   7884        -       -      -_
10.   Interm (ST) 11/                    -   10500  10500   10500  10500  1OS00   5250   5250   5250    5250
11.   Service chrge on TL                -     213    354    213       71      -       -      -      .
12.   Service charge on Sr I             -      105   105      105    105    53       53    53      53      53
13.  Interest on depoit _l/ A            -    1995  2520   3045   3570  4095   4620  5145   5670    6195
15 on (1+2+3+4)
B.l               -     998   1260    1523   1785  2048   2310  2573   2835    3098
Total income (a)                 1550   2616   3019   3141   3262   3453    3663   3926  4188    4451
3. EXPENDITURE
.~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~~    ~      ~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -_    ----------..     * .   _ _ _
1.   Books a    Stzionry               300    200    150      150    150    150     150    150    150      Iso
2.   Honorarium for the Offico         200    1000   1400    1400   1400   1500    1600   1800   1800   2000
Beaer
3.   Office Rent                      1000    1000   1000    1000   1000   1000    1000   1000   1000    1000
4.   Travel cost
Total expenditure (b)            1500   2200  2550   2550  2550  2650   2750  2950   3150    35SO
NET CASH FLOW (a) - (b) (N)              50     416   469      591    712   803    913    976   1138    1301
Assumptions:
I.    The FFCS will have 25 mnemben.
2.    N 10 per member, once for the whole membership.
3.    NI per member per wedc.
4.    N7500 as initil shae capital to got the asociation regitered.
5.    N I per member per week and 80% of the toal member will save.
6.    N 10000 per mnember for punp and TubeweU as term loan and 50% of the member will borrw in the Ist year and 50% in the 2nd year.
7.    1/3 of the loan will be epaid by 100% borrower in 2nd year and 2/3 in 3rd year and the rest in 4th year.
8.    50% member wiU borrow short term crop loan 0 N4000 per member.
9.    100% borrowers wiU repay loan along with intert.
10.   Intrest on tem loan 17%.
11.   Intaer ton shos tern loan 21%.
12.   Service chage I% of the accrued interest of the term and short term loan.
13a. Interest on deposit 15% per annum.
13b.  50% of the inteet earned on deposit as share of the society and of the remaining 50% to be refuineded to members as interest on savings and
share deposit.



~~~~~h  a
s               #   ~~~I ii.Xlj
I i      e        l       11111|
a k   ffi~I             1111



- 68 -
Annex Vl
Page 2 of 2
(iv)   Covenants                 Up-to-date on all legal covenants, especially
financial audits and quarterly reports on
existing external loan funds; or any other
outstanding covenant on recently completed
projec(s) financed using extenal funds.
C.    Fadam  RffjbR=t
(i)                              Completion of shallow aquifer studies
establishing that potential for fadama irrigation
exist.
(ii)                             Completion of full environment assessment.
(iii)                            Completion of identification of areas for
drilling and a list of interested farmers.
(iv)                             Complete fill review of rural organization.
D.    M_         _     __x.DeIeunmtmndlraining
Ava.ilbility of a long-term human resource
development plaa witD clearly idendfied annual
training schodules for all major activides.
E.   mu &WV
(i)    Seed Production and       Phasing out of Government/ADP owned farms
Marketing                 for cerdfied seed production and evidence of
full cost recovery of seed procured and
marketed by ADP.
(ii)    Market  of Other Inputs    Evidence of progres in the privadzation of
publicly owned input distribudon activities.



miNim. rM      I 
1mhZ Imedi  b1urn1                       Tddf Iwld"    C.Aba.e1
(WM "M                                     us #Ml
1       2       3       4      Tsl         1      2       3      4     Mel
1.    Uff 53
A. R1111 iinim                 74,713.4 6.211411.64.445.20.    M54.14.  1,10.  7te09  14.11Vo? 13.X133 41PS3.2
3. F_ll nFfuIUCII              Mw ol.n 2 n l,3.  M9U.7   23S.  121.92,7  ?15 2.039 I.94               21n.9  l22.04
Co MU   M  _Man                M701.9 U.ms& 10.1.  "A.?1 3142s   MOM.4 S1.3   *212.11 7,.  2MUM2
*. ME1M                        1704/.  974M   31.4.?               Mass  11.t    o.p  210.6           -  2U.76
E.  _iID   110    a133   323.1  l302.9 14.33.  1132.2    4.302l.3 .m3a a.w1u  1.197.6   0.4  1t,32.0
F. uECIOu     &NWI#             633.1  low105  3,lh.         -    3.203       119.5    .o     .       -    51M.e
L MIIMI         I    !         127.4         -       -       -   17#4.4  t.1.          -       -      -     .0.1
L. mUT       vMS FAMLM               - 14.131.  3.0.1M  1493  I13.1.4           - I21 263.0 5.0091  9,377.1
Ida DEiN!  1                    2.20.9 MM26 w  "L 3.. W3        3 1.1.09.9  27     7 111 S M2 OW4.1 n7.3M4 124.7
11. - _mn
A. M113                        1W627.  2b.3  2.591  2.20          9,714.3    13.2  246.3  225.4    J.7    36.6
3. AL12332,256.   3.07.2  1.704  41. 21 34.0    20.9  215.6  31.4   31.5  3.13
C. f  t             III         6et.1    60*7   73.6    Mel.    2 .         5.    5.    624.    n.0   24.3
B. Q20 I aI                    1,2W7.   2.w7.3  2.6.   3.173l   9,4.    13.    3142   219.9   29.4    3.7
t.  _hm. 3D1 111  13216.0  U1.   2.3M2.  2b3l99    6#47    1136   136.0  11.3 s                   15.1   33.5
1h1 i  5I3                         .321*1.  2 M164 22747.6 13.2.   40,646.    4043 91 .    991.6 219M.1  3.411.
~,            ~    ~           w- ----        - -   m m     wmmm     mm   -1
Mel "MlEC                        m.56M7 221,919.0 39.0.74.11332,37.M746.327,64.0 293,20.134.4373,1361.526MM6.
ma 4. 1m 14125
0U
Os->
Lf



wum - 
o m  mAk  'urnbdopm
ORMIN mmIsa s                         umm (Ml      m                         mirn  imum   raw
_uws    "In a _  _
-~~                 ~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~~                    ~~~~~~~ -   in  -   mm   
mu              ,on        ~Mnn  IMMUU                   MR _M  _ "                   ml Kno          rt   r_
1.6m
s. rum   _min-   M                            -US                   -           -             -          -           -           -   *       - 1
t. RIM                                                          S OM Asa.  nU am  -  u.  w4  -      -        v.:       ius   a.a.2            - n".
m. _in                _                  _                -,7u.,.,          i.j          -          -      |.m.2       s.w.*  =2..           -   n.mU@
s. _ _um   mum  *  _                -         -           -        a,            -  u.w.e      ami        u.ns.        2a n.          -       -   *.ws.e
F. mm            I                                                  -        71G.?       -          -    23.?               -      71         -    ImJ
0. SMOMN                            -         -           -         *            *UNMI                    t5,3M2                                  ts- 1..2
11. mum  rm rEm                     -         -           -         -            -       -          -          -            -         - 7J W.5   TES7iS1
-_ -                                 ,-_.
M d_1i UEI-                      W.S    w.us.i         1ll.31.   4 314.1      5.3.  u.m.         n>.m.      u.s.,        u.. 4.4  .wa.u  n,w.s  mm.u.                o
n._ 
a. mum                             -         -           -     1.93.9      2.U                     -          -       t.U.        321.       -      .
*. 61_n                            -         -           -     1.464.      2.334        -          -          -         7174    2.X15.7      -   1 .43.
2. maNI mum  sum@  -                         -           -       mm.       i.n.         -           -         -         3X4.         -       -    2.34.4
5. innu  ur                        -         -           -     1.6.          m.4   -                -         -   I .sa           337        -   6.Jv.
*.            in. _ _s                -         -           -     aim.          m                      -         -         be-       i si       -    hm.u
1i   mm_  ml1.                        -                     -    32.16       14..       a -           -          -       1b.3.     4.34.2       -   3.9.l
hl    m    .            _        131.31.   w..a        rm4    a.mm.           n...  2s1aw.          ..       3.31         H1U.@   Il4     2WIN.in.i. 13.s7.5  16.3.
Ubsles  114                       B.u    u.iu.        n.4.       1.13.2      1.75         -          -       211.1       UI.      1.55.4  7.31.    m 75.3.
Pri SMimI                      3.6.   11.15.         1396        7.36.1    W1.IU    4.67        1.33.      MIIIS       U 2.34.   7,71.  3.34.2  23,43.2
tl rEt   N1                     33332  UlIIA          3.131.? W    .3        3.63.   13.64.      3.l2J1.4    3.67.      31.13.1   47a7.0 513..  I.2D37U.7
m-                                                                                                    -     IU    1*h-vl2111l4b$s..e.
1s                                   - _    -}  12.13.1t     22 1.1.         1.0,   IU.          2.h6.     2.31.5       3.A.      4.7.  33,1.    43 .113
N : 
L.'-K110  FAILM                                      .-X
od I
ENRON cm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
L ft~~~~~~~~           b=ot        bmA                                         1000.0     ItL3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V



I   a                      e qe                                   *                                        4                     *   a
MU       FE     UIE          cr
Flowk n  In hobet tmtm
m m
rminmu
m  EKWIE3 AT I161       l 3E      rUIlE      EWhfh1          1661
-                                                  M~~~~~~~ta   w   in I
bsmt   I       blmo      I    bwa    I   &WAn   I    burnt    I   f3re fiche    Tom)    low
I  Lus 1"Mon1  313111
1. 1        _ af                                        3741.  4h.9    112.1  0.  124,8.01.6              -    2n,914.6  n.      191.7      13.3
2. 311 31ENAUIS                                       3.1103 61.        91l.5   2.1  15 .4 34.        too 0.0  44.32.  41.9   24,193.4    39,336.3
- - - - - -   -   -~-   -
1T.l I NI  "IMI  (g13                                    351.4  7.    3.1.0   1*4  27 424 40.            O.0 0.t  87.2.   31   Slp1.0    31.5.                -
Be rui  uINFIfLc                                         t9,1.2  7.5    214.2   2.4           -   - 31.1" 10.0  1184.9  11.A4    7,413.?        2479.4  19146.3
t. IEtiWIUK  ILUNI1
1. ruin    tOI*IWS                                     17.46.6   1.31/.2  46.4             -   -   132.7 16.0   33W*2. 13 .      1.0         1,28s7     3.7
2. F     _l UIII1M                                     1,185.4  W1   IU.?  Vol            -   -   M2. I0.s   2.7m.7  2*6    113.2            1o2.s  M2.
1. CWhM . _1?                                         13410.3 not        27.2   to7        -          IV.7 10*0   1W4  1.1    .VI.U? 1U.7    19.7.
W-11 1111111    f           E                             4,2.  14 2_11 36 .41 31.8           -   -   76339.0   7.4  7.             4161        b211.    76.1
90 n_o            I  IE   fw
to  _ _1         *11 a   1Mu                           2.32.1 17.s       17.7   22                        It.2 l0.0   2572.   2.4    316.7     47?.1   27P.2
2. FU_  65I1n  US C11U1TINI MIT                        2,91.4    f             -       -      -     29. I        2..2  2.3    2.09.            39.3   2f9.t
h  mI      K  Mm                                                a S maim gm  7A   -  -     - -   493 e41.4   1.238.   1.1    M7l                m19.1    I.7
4em.Uf iu Nu I  O  M    1U       15                    3,3 3.0 79.2 _       -     -        -   -   6.123.    41.l  4.0    32m2.                  4.6   42.3
WtebIl KAMM   il               IS     1                   9771.2 31.         1.07   e'1               MI- M37.3  10.74.3 39*.1    7,94.1        37m.l 3174.1
E.     1  FA   F1l3I1T                                    14W    63.4    87.0   7.2  1,010. 39.3    Mel 3A    9#.173  g.t    4193.              3.u7?    W.7
Toa 3duot                                                  8,5.  637   4,53.    4.3 2V.2S.226  4.M     4.4 I?18  1M.   1s.3.                     44,112.4  3138-.4
.~~            ~       ~ -                                            -                     *_                                 
_  4. 19  1413
oQ>
o H
g-f1-
'-
U'



72 -                           Annex VIII
Page 4 of 5
it, I 
i 3 | 3      - Pa    i |
ra or --. .  .aI  I
.Z.~ ~ ~~in II               
'1                            1~~~~~~~~-
|l   w1s'     'a' ''' I
i~~                        III 'Ses
Ut^t~~~ .itia ' '' ' . .
eSi~      uas @inu'-,M.'          j      i



NATIw. FAA KEWLINEIIT t    Et
Flaimefl tPl   1he nuvr kusmi
INi WATIUM.
Ff I 51    IN       F111  '"0
SUE lFU ltIE 
m   WIIEUT361UUN                   IE             IEIITI nTo rta
Lal (Emi 1 kWils I
Au_t   I  _ wit    2    Aust  2   k_t  I    humpt.   I   Fhl Limb.    Tm,                      Tu
As FA    VIATIN                  13,U2.2 32.6      759.6  1.  27427.4 656          -   -  41313.2 39.5   1094.5        3,93.7 
t. F     INFNUTRIIE                 M,6.2 37,      274s2   2.5        -   - 1,140.5 10.s  flf1R.o  10.4    7473.9       2479.4  19106.5
C.tPo I IM MeRENM                2     .  97.*7    277.2              -   -   471  1.4  29.50,2 21.t   26215.1          21.t 1      7.1
s. 91(C1ES                        2,31.6 69.3        4.3   0.2        -        276.3 10.0   2712.*  2.6    2463.3          43.1   21.3
E. 1E11     . iiuMI     I 1itm1A 4t695.9 0*4 4U.9   1.6               -   -    1.2 10.0  5S312.0  5*.    41354            725.4   531.2
F. IEIcAL ADIIMICE                  677.3    0       0o  0.o          -   -    7.3 10.0    m5.   0.7          671.          00      7.3           -
I. fIJNTU. AUKIN                  1,413.2 9.0#         -                  -   163. 10. 1o I61.3  1.5    11131.9           329.3   163.1
N.o sATn  FRa     FACIITY         5,94.  63.4    679.0 7.2  110.3U 19.3    377 10.0  9*.,3   3*9    4591.6              3147.*9    37.7
- - - - -          
Tota I3BIIENT  4mu                  674     .6      2,179.7   2.0 29,233.2 23.6 3,497.2 3.4 32,274.7 96.5   57U515.6    J1421.9  3471.2
A. 3m                                  -    -     64.S  76.6         -   -   M1. 2.4          3.   0.           -          2.9   -13.7
*. ALLIANCU-                                      6166  55.3         _        533  44.7   1,150.4  1.1           -      1.014    115.0
C. KM P     LAI    IS E   I N                     195.5  1.2         -   -      .4 19.       243.3  0.2       71n.       147.5    24.4
It ElES  O t11 N$-    -                           519.4  6U.         - -       73 27 324 5.7  e.3            333.4       427.7    34.6
to Sm9  WCRATINS m                     -    -     416.4  1.1         -   -    6.1 23.         5.5   0.6          -       52.       13.5
Total yEIE    UI                          -    -   2,453.3  6.1          -   - 1203.6 32.Y9  3h16.9  I.5         435.3     29.5    36.2
tSl 3INuU.                           67,431.6 63.7   43.0     4. 3 29,233.2 27.6 4  ,7.  44. 103936.6 340. .7,923.3    44152.4  3oU3.4
Am 4. IM        14125
0 H
'-4
'-I



- 74 -
Annex IX
Page I of I
NIGIERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Diibun.ment Schedule by Ouarter 1/
Cumulative
IBRD                         Cumulative      Diabumnment             Stan
FX Ouuter      D isbrnement    D isbu   n1     S % of Loan             DiAbu,reement Pmfilc Zt
92 IV                  4.0              4.0             6                               0
93 1                   6-2              10.2
nI                   5.1             15.3
IIm                  5.2             20.5
IV                   3.0             23.5           35                              10
94 1                    3.0            26.5
n                    3.0             29.5
m                    3.0             32.5
IV                   4.5             37.1           55                              22
95 1                   4.6             41.6
n                    4.6             46.2
m                    4.6             50.8
IV                   4.2             55.0            82                             38
96 1                    3.6            58.6
n1                   3.6             62.2
;11                  2.1             64.3
IV                   2.0             66.3            98                             54
r9  i                   1.2            67.5          100
m
IV                                                                                  74
'SI
98 1
n
m
HIV6
NV                                                                                  86
991X
m
IV                                                                                  94
100 IV                                                                               100
I/      Loan effectiveness, completion and closing dates assumed to be March 31, 1992,
Mach 31 1996 and September 30,1996, respctively.
21      Sourc  Standard Disbbm _net Profiles, CODMO, July 11, 1991. Refers to the
profile for agriculture project In NigerIa.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-U
[30)i]   0[!]1 r------ -------------------------------- 
L----------------- _ ---------i . r
L-------L---  ---- W  W  E  l-L
*  *
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                    ol-
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  S* a



LJ5
l'    -
LI   M &E U         Tlv
flU
. go aro w
*.'.': YX ;                           - 9L -



- 77 -
ANNEX X
Page 3 of 4
WmE O1ZATION
for
*TIUOL FMD OEMNU n=1C
I cm
I~~~~~~3U?
I              I                    -
in                  VA_N



9IB~    1                       1
~iI-
jo  a~Be
*                0J  -



- 79 -
ANNEX XI
NIGE&Lk-
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPM T PROJECT
TlERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Background
1.       In a review of the potential for small-scale irrigation in Nigeria the Federal Agricul-
tural Coordinating Unit (FACU)' has identified the existence of approximately 2 million ha of
land that could be developed for this purpose, half of which could be easily exploited. Tfhis land
is located primarily in flood plain areas known as fadamas that lie adjacent to the major river sys-
tems. Some 40 percent of this land is located in the five northern states of Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano,
Kebbi and Sokoto. It is estimated by FACU that 115,600 ha of this land have been, ot are being,
developed for small scale irrigation in these states alone. This is being achieved primarily
through the exploitation of surface and shallow groundwater sources using small petrol driven
pumps.2
2.        A request has been made to the Bank by the Government of Nigeria to provide
financial assistance for the development of a further 100,000 ha of such small-scale irrigation.
this would be divided between Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto. In this proposal
approximately 48 percent of the land would be serviced by shallow groundwater systems using
tubewells (32%) and washbores (16%) and 38 percent would be serviced by surface water
involving the extraction of water from rivers of ponds. In both these situations water would be
delivered onto the land by small 2 and 3 inch pumps. A smaller area (14%) has been identified
as having potential for fadama rehabilitation. This would require the clearing of waterways and
the construction of small control structures to allow flood waters to once again enter fadama areas
that are naturally flooded. In the past these were very extensive and supported rice production
and an active fishery and were probably important to the recharge of underlying aquifers. They
tend not to be flooded any longer because upstream dam construction and storage as well as
climatic changes have caused reduction of the flood flows in the rivers 3. The ponded areas
would once more be used for fisiLing and crops would be produced along the flood margin as the
water recedes.
3.       The review of the project by the pre-appraisal mission raised concerns with respect
to a number of potential environmental impacts that could result from its implementation.
Specific areas in which these could occur include:
- the potential for increased conflict between farmers and pastoralists as land is
converted from pasture to arable land;
1     FACU. 1988. Small-scale Irrigation Development in Nigeria.
2     FACU. 1990. Project Proposals for Fadama Development Under the
ADF (Bauchi, Kano and Sokoto States).
3     Pilon P.G. and R.A. Bullock. 1987. Monitoring Land Use Change in the Sokoto-
Rima Basin, Nigeria. In, McDougall A. E. (Ed) 1990. Sustainable Agriculture
in Africa. Africa World Press, Inc.



- 80 -
- the impact of displaced pastoralists and their herds on available rangelands as they
are concentrated in smaller areas within and adjacent to the fadamas and as the tradi-
tional transhumance routes are impinged upon; conflict between farmers and
fishermen over water management in the flooded fadama areas;
- the effect of the proposed project on fish habitat and the potential of the project to
destroy or to enhance fish habitation the potential for contamination of surface and
groundwater with fertilizers and/or other agrochemicals used for intensive irrigated
crop production on the fadamas.
- the potential for the project to provide incentives for the destruction of the habitat of
waterfowl and other migratory and non-migratory birds depending on the extensive
fadama wetlands;
- the destruction of the habitat of other terrestrial species that inhabit the fadamas;
- changes in the patterns of water-borne diseases.
4.        The operation of the irrigation schemes will influence river flows and may also result
in aquifer depletion and soil salinization. These are basic operational as well as environmental
concerns, that are fundamental to the sustainability of the systems. Monitoring programs and
facilities must therefore, be included in the design of the project in order to be able to identify
the nature of changes that occur and to take appropriate action.
5.        Review of the checklist provided in Annex A2 of OD 4.00 which is attached, shows
that the items identified above correspond to at least seven of the issues that are subject to Bank
policies. These are: (a) agrochemicals; (b) biological diversity; (i) international treaties and
agreements on the environment and natural resources; (o) tribal peoples; (q) watersheds; (r)
wetlands; and (s) wildlands. It is possible that there are other environmental issues that have not
been identified, which will become evident as a result of the EA process.
6.        Preliminary screening of the project by the Bank's AFTEN staff in accordance with
Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, has resulted in the project being accorded a Category A
status. This signifies that, for the project apraisal process to proceed it is necessary for the
Government of Nigeria to undertake the appropriate environmental studies and produce an
environmental assessment report. The drafts and final reports of these studies will be presented
to the Bank for review, discussion and approval. Annex Al of OD 4.00 is attached to provide
an indication of the thematic components that would be have to be included in the report. An
executing agency within GON will be nominated to finance, organize and manage the EA. This
will presumably be FACU, which has overall responsibility for the project at the Federal level.
It is recommended that FACU closely co-ordinate the activities of this EA team with that for the
National Livestock Project. Both projects must consider pastoralist and farmer conflicts as a key
issue. This will avoid duplication of effort, and result in a more global review of the nature of
these conflicts, thus providing the opportunity for exploring a wider variety of solutions.
7.        It is foreseen that FACU will assemble a team of experts to carry out the EA and that
they will be drawn from the ranks of Nigerian universities, research institutions, and consultants
and may also include the use of foreign experts where required and justified.



- 81 -
Objectives
8.        The objective of this environmental assessment is to identify the ecological and social
impacts that this project would have in the fadama areas, assess the risk associated with these and
formulate necessary mitigative actions for inclusion in the project design. The EA will cover the
States of Sokoto, Kano and Bauci, It will also include Katsina State. This state is not not
currently participating in the fadama project, but its geographical location between Kano and
Sokoto makes its inclusion essential. The adherence to the EA process is designed to ensure:
(a) the sustainability of the project; (b) that the project is implemented in a manner that is in the
best long-term interests of all Nigerians; and (c) that the people of the area affected by the project
have an opportunity to participate in project design; (d) that the Government of Nigeria and the
World Bank are full appraised of the all potential environmental impacts and risks associated with
this project and are able to respond to concerns expressed by national and international interest
groups.
9.        Public participation will be a key element to the execution of all the components of
this EA. Conflict between pastoralists and farmers, and to a much lesser extent between farmers
and fishermen, have already been identified as major social concerns. In view of this factor
alone, it is essential that these interest groups are intimately involved, in the process of
identifying the sources of conflict and formulating potential solutions. In addition to this,
however, the implementation of any measures designed to mitigate the impacts of the project, or
otherwise protect the environment, will depend on the support and co-operation of the people of
the area. They must therefore be intimately involved in identifying the potential impacts and
formulating the appropriate solutions.
10.       It is recognized the there will be hydrological impacts arising from the implementa-
tion of this project. However, the degree to which these river systems have been altered through
dam building has already had a profound influence on their hydrology. It is considered important
therefore that the needs and impacts of the proposed fadama developments be taken into account
in terms of overall river basin management. It is intended that this matter be included in the
upcoming National Water Resources Management Project.
The Study Team
11.       The study team will consist of five specialists: a team  leadet who will also be a
tropical range management specialist; a social anthropologist: a freshwater fisheries biologist:
a wildlife biologist and a public health specialist. It is essential that this team approaches its task
with the understanding that the outcome must be an integrated EA which recognizes the full range
of inter-relationships that exist in the environment and are likely to be impacted by the proposed
development.
12.       Oualifications
leam leader will be a recognized authority on the use and management of rangelands by
nomadic pastoralists. This person will also be experienced in evaluating the problems faced by
herdsmen through alienation of the land for agricultural purposes and the formulation of strategies
for avoiding conflict through settlement, range improvement, livestock marketing, herd
improvement, or other means.



- 82 -
The Social AnthropoIo.git will be an authority on the pastoralists of Northern Nigeria with a
thorough knowledge of their customs and
social structures, preferably with fluency in the Fulani language. He must also be familiar with
the relationships that exist between the pastoralists and settled agriculturalists and have the ability
to work effectively with both groups.
The freshwater fisheries specialist will have recognized expertise and experience in the assessment
and management of river fisheries in West Africa. This specialist will also have appropriate ex-
perience in the assessment of water quality particularly in the evaluation of the impacts of
agrochemicals.
The Wildlife Biologist will be a recognized authority on the habitat requirements for migratory
and resident waterfowl and ether birds of the fadamas. This person will also have the requisite
expertise in terrestrial ecology to be able to identify the impacts of the project on other wildlife
that inhabit the fadamas or the adjacent upland areas.
The Public Health Specialist will have had experience in the identification of health problems
resulting from the modification of physical environments in Nigeria, particularly with respect to
the dynamics of water borne diseases associated with the development the irrigation projects.
13.       Ilski
(a)       Team Leader/ Rangeland Management Specialist
(i) Lead the mission, co-ordinating the work of the other team members and providing
liaison with FACU and the World Bank. Make travel and accommodation arrange-
ments for the team as required. Take overall responsibility for the compilation of the
final report and recommendations of the team. Take a lead role in the workshops at
the beginning and end of the EA studies.
(ii)  Collect and review available information on the use and management of the fadamas
with special emphasis on the needs of the Fulani pastoralists (the delineation of the
existing land uses on the fadamas and of the areas scheduled for small scale irrigation
development is essential).
(iii)  Review the proposed project designs to ensure that soil and water issues will be
adequately addressed in project implementation.
(iv)  Review current activities of state and federal governments (through NLPD) with
respect to the programs aimed at alleviating the problems faced by the pastoralists.
(v)  Meet with pastoralist leaders and with representative tribal groups on a formal and
informal basis to review livestock management practices and problems, fodder
requirements, and sources of conflict with arable farmers and to explore possible
solutions.
(vi)  Meet with representative farmer groups to review, amongst other things, their
livestock management practices, fodder requirements, causes of conflict with pastora-
lists and potential solutions.
(vii)  Review the current use and condition of pastures in the fadamas and the extent of
dependence of pastoralists on crop residues from existing farms.



- 83 -
(viii)  Identify naturally occurring products of the fadama areas that are used by the inhabit-
ants of these areas for medicinal purposes or as dietary supplements.
(ix) Evaluate the potential for the creation and management of fodder banks in the
fadamas and the involvement of the pastoralists in irrigated fodder production.
(x)  Review with the pastoralists any other options which might enable them to improve
livestock management, and quality on the fadamas while avoiding confrontation with
the sedentary farmers. This will be carried out in close co-ordination with the Social
Anthropologist.
(xi)  Prepare a report containing: (a) an evaluation of the impact of full project develop-
ment on the availability of pasture to the pastoralists (b) recommendations on the
measures that should be taken to avoid conflict through pasture and livestock manage-
ment: (c) potential for the incorporation of herdsmen into the irrigation system
through the development of fodder banks or other means of achieving more sedentary
management practices, including dairying.
(b)       Social Anthropologist
(i)  Engage in discussions with ADP staff and other relevant officials to identify specific
incidents of conflicts between farmers and herdsmen and those areas in which social
tension already exists.
(ii)  Be responsible for organizing the public participation process for the EA. In this
process potential environmental impacts and measures for avoiding or mitigating the
effects of these will be discussed with the communities.
(iii)  Engage in discussions with Fulani leaders and leaders of the agricultural communities
as well as with other representative groups to identify existing sources of conflict and
tension and the mechanisms that have been used to defuse these.
(iv)  Identify and quantify the numbers of herdsmen and stock population that use the
areas scheduled for development and the times of year in which these areas are used.
(v) Through discussions with the leadership of the Fulani in the fadama areas explore the
cultural and resource constraints to changing or maintaining present livestock
management practices.
(vi)  Engage in discussions with womens' groups to evaluate the potential impact of the
project on women with respect to womens' involvement in farm work, income
generation opportunities and household activities.
(vii)  Together with the range management specialist evaluate measures that might
practically be implemented by the Fulani to improve livestock and pasture
management, engage in more sedentary livestock management - including dairying
and avoid conflict with the farmers.
(viii) Hold discussions with farmers, fishermen and village leaders in sample fadamas
designated for flood rehabilitation. This will be done to evaluate the extent of
conflict that exists over water management procedures and elucidate their opinions
on the mechanisms that should be applied to avoid conflicts.



- 84 -
(ix)  Prepare a report specifically identifying the extent of the potential for conflict
between herdsmen and farmers in the areas and participate as required in workshops.
(c)        Freshwater Fisheries Biologist
(i)  Review pertinent information with respect to the size and life cycles of resident fish
populations in the affected river systems. This should include the identification of
their habitat requirements for breeding and feeding purposes.
(ii)  Identify the role played by flooded fadama in providing permanent or temporary
habitat to individual species and assess the impact of past losses of flooded fadama
on these species.
(iii)  Identify the impact of altered river regimes on purely riverine species.
(iv)  Identify the potential impact of fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides on the fish
populations and on the potential for secondary effects on human populations using
these fish.
(v)  Identify the relative importance of the fish species in the rivers and the fadamas to
the adjacent popultations and assess the value of this fishery in terms of the nutrient
supply to these people.
(vi)  In association with the social anthropologist identify the degree to which fishing is
a specialized occupation or an integral part of the farming activities.
(vii)  Define water quality guidelines that should be maintained in the management of the
groundwater and surface water sources. This may require consultation with specific
authorities in the case of residues from agrochemicals.
(viii)  Identify procedures that should be used in monitoring water quality and institutions
that are capable of providing the requisite laboratory services.
(ix)  Prepare a report, detailing the potential impacts from  project development and
providing recommendations on mitigative measures that must be adopted by the im-
plementing agency or other state or federal institutions.
(d)        Wildlife Biplgisgt
(i)  Review the information available on waterfowl and other bird species that inhabit the
fadama wetlands for part or all of the year.
(ii)  Identify areas of specific importance to waterfowl and other avian species that might
be impacted by the implementation of the project. Particular importance should be
given to those areas that are covered by international convention.
(iii)   Conduct field reviews of the potentially sensitive areas, particularly in the Hadeija-
Nguru wetlands to determine the extent of farmer incursion into these areas.



- 85 -
(iv)  In conjunction with ADP and other state staff develop guidelines for ensuring that
incursion into sensitive areas is stemmed and that these areas are protected during
future development.
(v)  Identify the terrestrial species that inhabit the fadamas, the numbers of these and the
potential impact of fadama irrigation on these populations.
(vi)  Identify the extent to which local populations depend on wildlife for food or other
uses.
(vii)  Work through the public participation process organized by the social anthropologist
to identify concerns and formulate appropriate wildlife management and or conserva-
tion measures.
(viii)  Prepare a report detailing the potential impacts of the project on avian and terrestrial
species and recommend measures that must be taken to mitigate these.
(e)       Public Health Specialist
(i)  Review information already available in Nigeria and elsewhere with respect to the
incidence of disease in irrigation systems with characteristics similar to that being
proposed.
(ii)  Design appropriate field sampling and survey methodology for the evaluation of the
incidence of water borne and other disease in the areas in which shallow ground
water is already being used for irrigation.
(iii)  Execute field surveys to evaluate the existing health conditions in the areas irrigated
with shallow groundwater and the changes that might have occurred as a result of the
implementation of this activity.
(iv)  Design a monitoring program to be followed at intervals through the course of the
project.
(v)  Prepare a report making recommendations for public health measures that should be
implemented as part of the project.
Schedule of Activities
14.       The major activities to be undertaken during the course of this EA and the timing
of these and the staff assignments are shown in Figure 1. The environmental assessment will be
carried out between mid-October and the end of February 1990. The team leader's assignment
will be for an additional one months and within this time he will have completed the report. The
assignments of the other team members will be as shown in Figure 1. Each team member will
present the team leader with a completed report covering their activities, findings and
recommendations at the completion of their assignments.
(a)       Review Terms of Reference
FACU will submit the terms of reference to appropriate agencies of the Government of Nigeria
fnr their review and comment. The avencies consulted in this manner will include, but not be



- 86 -
limited to, the Nigerian EPA, the Ministry of Health, the National Livestock Development
Agency, the Forestry Department (for wildlife concerns), the Ministry of Water Resources and
the four state ADPs, namely Kano, Sokoto, Bauchi and Katsina, to ensure that important elements
have not been overlooked. It is recommended that FACU organize a workshop to which the
representatives of these agencies are invited and at which the TORs and the specific concerns
expressed in them are explored and discussed. A revised TOR will be prepared on the basis of
this and submitted to the Bank for further review.
(b)       Mobilize EA Team
The project team will be mobilized as soon as all the members have been nominated and all
parties have agreed to the TORs.
(c)       Data Review and Design of Field Programs
Each member of the EA team will be responsible for reviewing the documentation relevant to the
project and to their general area of concem. In consultation with the team leader they will
prepare a program of field activities which will include sampling designs, staff and vehicle
requirements and a schedule of activities. All members of the team will co-operate closely with
the social anthropologist in planning and coordinating their activities to achieve as much public
input as possible.
(d)       Execution of Field Programs
The field survey programs will be undertaken as soon as the prev-iously described activities have
been completed. It is strongly recommended that all these field activities be undertaken simul-
taneously in order to make the best use of the available transportation other resources and also
to be able to co-ordinate, as far as possible, meetings that would constitute the most important
public participation component of this assessment.
(e)       Data Analysis and Report Preparation
The team members will undertake analysis of the field data and other relevant information that
they have collected as soon as they have completed their individual field activities. These Reports
will be submitted to the team leader for inclusion into a single integrated draft EA report
corresponding to the attached outline.
(f)       Preparation of Mitigation Plan
The mitigation plan will form an integral part of the draft report that is to be prepared by each
of the team members. It will describe the actions to be taken to avoid and mitigate the potential
environmental impacts identified as a result of the EA studies. Each of the specialists on the EA
team will review the mitigation plan with the other members of the team and with relevant
agencies of the state and federal governments to ensure that they are fully understood and that
they are implementable.
(g)       Draft Report Review and Final Repoeparation
The draft report will be presented at a single project completion workshop (or a series of
workshops organized on a state by state basis). The participants will not only include government



- 87 -
and non-governmental agencies but also the other parties that may be affected the development
and through whom aspects of the project or the environmental mitigation plan will have to be
implemented. At this workshop the findings of the team and the mitigation plans proposed will
be reviewed in detail and input sought on ways in which the mitigation measures or the
implementation of these may be improved. These suggestions will be incorporated into the final
draft report that will be reviewed by FACU with assistance from other institutions of the GON
which they may wish to involve. It will also be reviewed by the Bank staff. Comments will be
submitted to the team leader for inclusion in the final report in accordance with the schedule
shown in Figure 1.



- 88 -
Annex XII
NIGERIA                            Page I of 6
NATINAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJEA
=RQ&ON ENGINE
1.    The primary objectives of the assipment are to asist the SUI to develop internal
capacity to design and install practical, low cost and tecbnically efficient field-level irrigation
systems and to assist farmers to optimize production. In addition, the irrigation engineer will
be required to supervise drilling contracts and to experiment with irrigation techniques with a
view to improving those already in use by farmers.
AialgmsiLaak
2.    The Irrigation Engineer will report to the Project Manager and work as an advisor to
the Director of Engneering. The tasks to be undertaken during the course of the assignment
will include, but not be limited to the following:
(a)    Assist the SIA engineering staff with the identification of fadama areas for
drilling, the preparation of technical specifications of tender doauments for
ibewell and washbore drilling, the btehnical eaustion of bids and the
supevision of contractors.
(b)    Train SIA etension staff and farmers in the design, field construction and
mintenan  of small scale irrigtion and drainage distribution systems.
(c)    Train SIA extension staff and farme  in techniques for the proper operation
and maiance of pumps.
(d)    Supervise the selection and establishment of demonstration plots at
representative sites. Cooperate closely with the Irrigation Agronomist and
extension staff in the development of programs to demonstrate water
management, crop management, tillage and harvesting techniques to farmers.
(e)    Review field water management prcices and identify means of improving
these through field levelling and improved tillage and seed bed preparaion.
(t)    Review groundwater use patterns and monitoring data to asist the Fadama
Use  Associations to make decisions with respect to water use practices and
water consrvation.
(g)    Review the post harvest magement and sore of crowp   d ast in the
design of improved handling and storae failities, including the establishment



- 89 -
Annex Xll
Page 2 of 6
of a pilot storage facility using evaporative cooling for prolonging the storage
of vegetables.
(h)    Cooperate closely with the National Agricultural Technology Support Project
(NATSP) particularly with respect to the research undertaken for the selection
of small-scale tUlage equipment suitable for application with animal traction or
small motor traction in the faWamas.
(i)    Assist the SIA and the FUA in the identification of soil and water management
meaures that would contribute to the conservation of the environmental
components of the fadamas. This might require actions on such diverse
matters as measures to protect the groundwater from contamination to the safe
disposal of waste lubricants.
Oalalihicat'
3.    The candidate for this assignment should have at least a first degree from a University
with a well recognized school of agricultural engineering or irrigation technology. He should
have at least ten years practical experience in irrigation with emphasis on small farmer
systems and the exploitation of shallow groundwater of which a minimulm of five years should
be in the countries with similar conditions as Nigeria. Experience with the establishment and
operation of demonstration plots and small machine operation and maintenance would be a
great asset.



- 90 -
Page 3 of 6
IRRGATQNARONOM~IS
4.    The primary objectives of the assignment is to usist the SIA to develop the necessary
expertise in the management of irigated crops so that they can provide asistance to farmers
on a sustained basis after the completion of the project. This is required because of the
relaive novelty of groundwater irrigatimn in the rogion and prius emphais on the
production of upland crops.
--   TARflIMk
S.    The rrigation Agronomist wil report to the Project Manaer and work s an advisor
to the Director of Agricultural Services. The emphasis of the Irrigation Agronomists work
will be on the train   of the SIA staff and the development of a awareness and capability
that wi}l permit them to successfully execute the future pbhses of the project. Ihe task to be
undertae during the coune of the assignment will include, but not be limited to the
following:
(a)    Review the techniques currealy used for the management of irrigated crops in
the area and devise means of imroving on these in a manner that will
contribute positively to the famers' welfare.
(b)   introduce new crops under fadma irrigaion.
(c)    Review available market iformaion with respect to actual ad potel
cropping sym  in order to identify the most appropriate crops for fames
to be growing, a well a the most appropriate sequencing and timing of
crops.
(d)    Review the soiU aalytical data, with particular emphasis on the nutrient and
micr-nutrient stanas of the soils, in order to establish fertlizer requirement
basd on the rea, rather than perceived, needs of the crops. Also train staff
and farmes to recognize the symptoms of soil salinity and/or sodicity from
analytical data and field observations and to take appropriate actions.
(a)    Asist the SIA staff in the review of the major pests that currendy afflict
rrigated craps in the region and the  scticides and herbicides used to
combat these. Genrate rom      os for the use and selection of
paticides and with the emphasis on integrated pest mangement wherever
posible and lo on the mesure that should be adopted to assure personal
health and safety d enronmal protection.
(t)    Coopae closdy with the irrigation engineer In the sdection and evaluation
of imprved tilago, land and water maagemet techniques.



- 91 -
Annex XlII
Page 4 of 6
(g)    Cooperate closely with the irrigation engineering staff in the establishment and
management of demonstration plots.
(h)    Review harvesting and post-harvest management of crops to identify how
these might be improved in order to increase returns to the farmer.
(i)    Cooperate closely with the NATSP to ensure that appropriate and applicable
tillage and crop management practices are incorporated into the irrigated
fadama systems.
Oualificatins
6.    The candidate for this assignment should have at least a first degree from a University
with a well recognized faculty of agriculture. He should have at least ten years practical
experience in irrigated crop management under arid conditions with emphasis on small-farmer
systems. Experience with the establishment and operation of demonstration plots and working
with farmer groups would be a great asset.



- 92 -
AnUnx
Page S of 6
CONTRACT ADMINIMA3MR
01i2=  OfdeAim
7.    The Candidate who would report directly to the Project Manger SIA will be required
to assist the SIA in the execution of all phases of contract execution and to ensure that this is
done in a technically ad commercially sound manner, consistent with the World Bank's
procurement procedurs and Nigerian law on such matters. The contracts to be administered
will require fmiliaity with the Intenational Competitve Bidding Procedures (ICB), under
which well drilling, pump purchasing and certain consulting sarvices wil be purchased.
Familiarity with Local Competitve Bidding (LC3) will also be required for the contracting of
road construction, well drilling and local purchase of goods and services. In addition, the
candidate should be familiar with local shopping procedures and have the capability to assist
the SIAs prepare creative contracts. These may be required for purchasing such services as
the contracting of drilling services with fadama user goups and small-scale operators who
would be using rotary, bailer or wash boring rigs leased or purchased from the SIAs.
intIAkS
8.    The assignment will include, but not be limited to the following ta:
(a)    Become thoroughly familiar with the project doce on including the staff
apprai   report and the loan agreemenL
(b)    Be thoroughly familiar with the Bank's procrement guidelines and the
prcedures to be followed in the prWeation of evaluadon reports.
(c)    Prepare a procuremet schedule for the life of the project.
(d)    Prepare bidding documents for all goods and technical services to be
purchased by the SIA in accordance with the Bank's technical specifications.
(e)    Prepare bid invitadon calls.
(f)    Prepare short-lists of qualified suppliers of the required goods and services.
(g)    Prere letters of invitation for contuction services using stndard Bank
sample doumen.
(h)    Evaluate tenders and proposals and advise on slection of conrctos,
consulta  or suppliers of the required services and goods.
(i)    Prepare a manual which will include a checklist and guidelina for contract
supervision, quality control and reporing procedures iuding certification of
satactory work completion in support of paymet documents.



- 93 -
Annex XllI
Page 6 of 6
(j)    Prepare a program including job descriptions for staff of SIA responsible for
construction supervision, quality control and progress monitoring of road
works. Review the capacity of the existing staff to undertake the program and
if found inadequate in quality and numbers, prepare a proposal to fill these
inadequacies by locally recruited consultants. In association with the
internationally recruited irrigation engineer, prepare a similar program for the
tubewell development.
kk)    Prepare inncvative contracts for special driling services to be provided by the
SIA's surplus operating staff and drill rigs in such a manner that competition
with the small scale contractors of the private sector will be on equal terms
and conditions.
Q)    Train SIA staff in contracting and contract administration procedures so that
by the completion of the contract there is a cadre of appropriately trained staff
within the SIA capable of preparing, administering and evaluating contracts.
Oualificat
9.     The candidate for this assignment should have at least a first degree preferably civil
engineering from a University. He should have at least ten years practical experience in civil
egineering contracting work and in management of contracts of which five years should be
as a project manager or team leader of a contracting or consulting organization. Experience
in Nigeria or under similar condition as Nigeria will be preferred.



- 94 -
Annex 2911
page I of I
NATION FADAMA DEVI,OMENT PROEC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND LOCAL CONSULTANCIES
A. Tochnical Assitnc: Schedulo of Activitice
Activity                         Nlo. of Months Assiftnce by Year
1.      _                                 I 4  l
TueeiDay-o1pment
in Bauchi. KMao and Sokoto
Jir i      -O inuw                36      36       36      0                         106
Inigation Agrnoit                         36       36      36       0                108
Ckus Adminiobstion                36      36       0       0                          72
Fonrtion of PUAs                          12       12      12       0                36
Study on Maetin of V.gables    0          12       0       0                          12
Federa  Minictrv of W r Resoures
Hydologixt                        12      12       12      12                48
Consultation by FACU
rigadon EnginertHQ                12      12       12      0                         36
gasgion Engineer at ICaduna               12       12      12       0                36
Study on Local Man*factuinS
of PwMp                                  0        4       0       0                  4
Pwioralit-Famer Rekaionsip        0        6       6       0                          14
472
3. Lwc  Colancies: Schedule of Activities
Activity                          No. of Month Asance by Year
I       a       2        4
Enavir_onmunt Asist               12      12       12      12                        48
Moitoring of Waw Table            6        6       12      12                         36
Soil Suvey                                12       12      12       12               48
Caal Svmey                        24      24       36      36                        120
bnpe ctof Fadam                   0       0        12       12                        24
Development of Fmr Incomee
A.iu1  of Pojt by NFFCC           0        6       6        6                         IS
294



Annex XIV
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVEMEU) TROIECr
Pronkd lmdemnlabo Scbedue
Pmjed Year                        PtM                  l                    2                    3                     4                    5
IBRD Ficl Year                   91192                 92193                93194                94n95                 95196                96/97
Clendar Year                      91                   92                   93                    94                   95                   96
QuvA                              I    2 13    4    I    2    3   4    1    2    3    4                2    3    4          2    3    4    1   2    3 
- Negaudaion
* Bonsd Pzuuetstan 
*Effectivencu
*Conqiottin Date                                                                                                                                          -
PROlEC IMPLEMENTAN                                                                                                                                                  u
Shlbt Tciwl Dc"kdneZ              
* CoanVkdin of aquifor dsA
- Selection of key TSC inK 
- Seledai  of fadnm a &umM
for jeady pma.
- Pinalizatio of leder doemmi
- Seletio of coamon A
secation of driling
-    -Inv ttli. of ADP dlleing . .mu
Sekdion of ko*ionr roe *sd*
and muktd sh.
- Fimliml of lender dommeb.
- Canion of nftmrotum                                            ...  *..             .     ....
EUM
.Fodtion of FUA_           ..         ,.....                                     . ._
* Cow RcoUwa  Effoet.
_   Lusg3 &MadW Ma_-tin=
m                                                   * =   =  -           * =   =     -                                            -  -      -     - -  -      



Annex XIV
Page 2 of 2
Pjed Yest                         PM                    l                     2                    3                     4                    S
IBllD Find Yccr                   91192                 92193                 93194                94195                 95196                96/9t
CakWs Yar                         91                    92                    93                   94                    95                   96
las.tcr  1    2    3    4    l    2    3    4    l    2    3    4    l    2    3f4    l    2    3    4    1   2    3       4
- Fel Wouk in:
(a) Nodtbna Sates
(b) MM&dl heft amu
(a) SwAeM aim
-Sead qpot an EAo toe Bak
(a) Nodben am                                     *
(b) Middle hekt ai
(c) sobu   s                                                     _ _
ADP Ieel wodish i on EA
(a) modbhm  aeAs                                                                                                                                        .....
(b) Middis. be. ai*
(c) SouAhernM m-
.Sojuri                                                                                     r.**
*Psiorslid-Famwi Relaionhip                                                                                        ..*-
*Six an"o,   pwinim aapwou                                            I
L v*jg.w Renodings an Auditl
- Mid-Tur Raview
- oilinReview
- AmWAuitAccownts-                                           -     -       d 



- 97 -
Annex XV
Page 1 of 4
PROlECr MQNrrORING RE    MENT
1      The momisoring wtivitie relaoed to this projac csis of four meo  elem: (a) montring for project
sup.rviWn; (b) mitodng of project pl achievement; (c) monitoring of oils ad dallow  quifer
conditios and (4) montoring of mofae wate  at a nver basin lvel. ls ams of all th   monitoring
activitis  mil, vi, toaist tihoe   piblo for the ongoing __.sgmuu to maintsin a coio_u
chuck an the prps of the proe, nd to allow t_  to antpat pria .. ad to dua with the in a
timely mar.  The resp bility for th eeuon of the nmoing prorm  fNll    tho specific
intiuions tht rquin the iormaton for thir decision   king proces-m. These wil be shw  in th
followin paraaphs. in ac cs, however, it is esuential that identifiable ad quanih   idito  we
esblid at the ta  of the proect and fom the 1bais of which to m_sarm proS.. Tu1 indiato
muat t   be reviwed at rog1ar inava throughout th course of te poct in orde to gaeo the
requisite management feedback.
I      MmniIorin for Proiw  Suon
wi     PArior to Proiec bMnoliention
upoe:          To moe the Dk tht the preconditions for facng we   t w by to State and Fedwml
Governments.
Responsible:   Bank saff with the asistao   of FACU and ADP rpot.
Componets    (1) esabliont of conditions for negotatio  (m  Figr   1);
(2) eAblhmemt of condiiaons for proect   fenasgjsRaa disbusemt (see Figur 1)
Baowtion       The monitorin will be carrd out by th provi    to th Dnk of - pasts of the activitie of the
ADPs nd FACU with respect to th prop    towads th dsirnd milsoeL If ncoe y, Bank
stff will visit thm ins out    pior to eoiions   loan efective    to _r themeves
tat tho spcified actione, infect b    tko
Actios:        Go/no-g decion bw the Bank with rpect to te fiancig of the pojecL
Purpose:       (1)    To evaluate the progrs of the pojct with _pect to disbursements ad achievemnot
of estblidod mnilson.
(2)    To evl_u tbe impact of th project on to welbeing of the inteded bficisaes
Respoible:    Dak sff, ADPs, APMEU, FACU.
-a            (1)    Basine itdion
1



- 98 -
Annex XV
Page 2 of 4
(2)    Physical goal achievent (woUs drilled, pump supplied etc.)
)    Project impacts (effects of project on wollbeing of participanu.
Execution:    Th trakng of oal ottinmet will be achieved through the combination of the detiled meview
of td    ul moitoring uports gpnertd by the ADPs themselves in coordinaion with APMEU
(paagrph 3) and the field review of the projoct by Bank stff. Baline conditions will be
sablishd  immediately after project unplemnttaion.
Actions:       r1 1o_maions to FON with  rpt to o-going execution of the project. Dcison with
qect Po fuur disbursement for end comosition of fams imitian projets.
3                 fr1_MA_
Pupos:         (1)    Trcking of estblished project milest    in term  of dbursmnts and physil tuget
chiovemt (wells drilled, pumps wppliod, rods co)nicted e)
(2)    To eluat the impact of the project on the welbeing of tho ieded beneficiarie.
Responible:   ADPs tough their own mton ng units with m      oanc from APMEU.
Compoeets:   (1)    Balie conditions: the baline conditions for eac of the projct componn au to be
stablised during firt six months aftw effectivemees.
(2)    Pbysical goa  chieveomt by Component
(a)    Dillig prgr   ad pump supply (numbers achieved;
(b)   PFdeu  ifeacur (rods, somae dheds. cd strg);
(c)    FadPa Uses Asoit    (numben formed ad nmbler of pariipan);
(d)    MonitonSg and Sdies (tblishm    and opeaoo of data colction sysm
sUtti  with wet depth  mplig nd soil ad wate sampling by FU);
(3)    Rat of poject d mnt
(4)    Impct on Paticipa  (blin daa rquud for th eution of thiese ipact):
(a)    Ilopt on frmr wellbein
(b)    Evio_ tal and social impat  monitorng (including  accerm of Fadam
(e)    Effecive     of NFDP oriational stuct   withi ADPs.
Executio       (I)     asline_ meum     t and motoring of componnts a to d wiUl be cid  ou annually
bly the ADP mitoing umts with th astoe of APMEU. Ahma reot wil be
2



Annex XV
99  -                                       Page 3 of 4
prepared for presentation to FACU and the Bank.
(2)    Environmental and social impact monitoring should initially be done by competent
instiutions, such as universities under contract to FACU. Annual reports will be prepared
for presentation to FACU and the Bank.
Action:        Docisions by ADPs and FACU with respect to ongoing management of the projects and
adjustments required in order to meet project objectives more effectively. Input to bank for
project supervision purposes.
4      Monitorina of Soil and Water Conditions in Fadamas
Purpose:       To ensure the sustainability of the project through the maintenance of aquifers and of soil and
water conditions suitable for crop production.
Responsible:   (1)     FUAs to record water table levels with assistance of ADP staff.
(2)    FUAs to sample soils and water with assistance of ADP staff.
(3)    FUAs for the recording of crop yields with assistance of ADP extension staff.
(4)    ADPs for contracting analytical services for soils and water
(S)    ADPs for data processing and storage.
Execution:     The ADPs will undertake the training of farmers in the FUAs in water depth recording techniques
and in soil and water sampling techniques. They will coordiLate the accumulation of samples and
data and the distribution of samples to laboratories. The ADPs in coopertion with FACU will
seek specialized assistance to review data and make appropriate management decisions to be
communicated to farmers through extension system. All water table monitoring data will be
passed on to FMWR for inclusion in river basin monitoring activities.
Actions:       Decisions with respect to water and soils management h assure long-term sustinability of
irrigation systems.
S      Monorini of SurfaCe Water Resources.
Purpose:       The collection of data for input to river basin management plans and operations. This monitoring
will provide the basis for ensuring that the needs of aU water users are met in so far as is possible
wd that adequate basejows are maintaited in the rivers.
Responsible:   The Water Resources Department of the FMAWRRD, through the individual river basin
authorities. ADPs will provide to the Water Reources Department data collected in irrigated
fadamas on the numbers of farmers irrigating, cropping sequences used and depths of shallow
acquifers.
Components:   (1)      Monitoing of river flows.
(2)    Monitoring of rainfall and other climatic data that determine river flow conditions.
3



- 100 -                                          Annex XV
Page 4 of 4
(3)    Monitoring of all other users of the water resoumes, water nghts and allocations.
Execution:     Support will be providod through the allocation of Bank funds to FMWR to develop the required
nioitoring capacity. River basin conditions should be monitored continuously with data recorded
onto daa bow for analysis using appropriat GIS (at state level). These procedures should be
used for the ontinuous updating and adjustment of water allocations.
Actions:       (1)    FMWR with the istance of the Bank will ppa re a plan for institutional strengthening
to pumit them to execute the requisite monitoring activities. This will include details of
the rquirements for; staff trining, computer systems, transportation, office space and
equipot.
(2)    FMWR will prepaer a monitoring plan and st  to execute this to coincide with the
implementadon of the N:DP.



A101                                    X
Page 1 of I
NQIGERIA
NATIOAL FADAJA DEVELOPMEN EROECT
SuDervision Plan
1.    Bank supervision of the project would be closely linked to the implementation
schedule presented in Annex XIV. The schedule of supervision missions presented below
includes three visits during the first year of the project, to monitor satisfactory progress
towards the conditions of effectiveness and disbursement dealing with various up-front actions
for selection of fadamas, farmer organization, finalization of drilling contracts and staffing.
Subsequently, there will be two supervision missions each year. The project will also benefit
from one thematic supervision each year related to rural infrastructure, audit and
privatization. The project supervision missions will require ten staff weeks each year of Rural
Credit Specialist and Irrigation Engineer, and five staff weeks of Project Economist/Officer.
The supervision missions for NATSP will also complement supervision of this project in
terms of the assessment of the impact at farm level.
cY         1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Quarter    1234  1234  1234   1234  1234
1. Project Launching Workshop
2. Supervision Mission                      s *       *    *  *      * S    S
3. Thematic Supervision missions            S      *       *        *       *
for rural infrastructure,
audit, privatization
4. Mid-Term Review                                   *
lKa Indicators
2.    FACU and APMEU will be responsible for collecting the data on various key
indicators dicussed in Annex XV. The Mid-Term Review of the project will particulaly
review, apart from the components covered in Annex XV, progress made towards (i)
privatization of in-house drilling teams of SIAs; (ii) full cost recovery; (iii) innovative
conuacts for drilling; and (iv) the use of NFF.



- 102 -                     Annex XV'lI
Page 1 of4
TABLE 1: CALCULATIONS FOR PARITY PRICES (FOR MARCH 1991)
Rice   Wheat
Foreign Reference market              Bangkok   Gulf
World Price(S/ton)                         320      134
Freight, Insurance($/ton)                   60       62
C.I.F.Lagos($/ton.)                        380      196
C.I.F. Lagos(N/ton)                       4750     2450
Source to Port                           Engugu   Kaduna
Kms from Source                            240      500
Rate/mt/km(N/ton)                          0.5      0.5
Transport Cost                             120      250
Intrastate Transport Cost                  100      100
Transport & Storage Losses(2%)              95       49
2 months Interest                        142.5     73.5
Economic' Farmgate Price (N/ton)        5107.5   2822.5
Financial Farmgate Price (n/ton)        5000.0   5000.0



- 103 -
Annex XVII
TABLE 2: FINANCIAL & ECONOMIC RETURNS FOR PADDY                ------
WITHOUT IRRIGATION                                   Page 2 of 4
CROPS:                       PADDY
Financial       Economic
Quantity per               Price            Price
ha in kg.                   (price per kg.)
Output    2500.0              3.3                3.3
Input
Planting
Material  100.0              3.0                3.0
Urea       50.0              0.8                4.8
Compound  100.0              0.8                4.8
Packaging
Material    100kg/bag        6.0                9.0
Labor     100.0             20.0               17.0
Fuel                         0.7                0.7
Total Cos(N/ha.)           2570.0             2945.0
Profit   (N/ha.)           5555.0             5342.5



_ 104 -
Annex  XVII
Page 3 of 4
TABLE 3:  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RETURNS WITH IRRIGATION N BEFORE
TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE CAPITAL COST OF DRILLING L PUMPS
CROPS:                      PADDY                                                                WHEAT
Financial      Economfic                                        Financial    Economic
Quantity is in            Price          Price                     Quantit is in           Price        Price
kg/he.                          (price per kg.)                    kg/he.                         (price per kg.)
* . ..*...................  ......................                                       ................................................
Output   3500.0             3.3                3.3                          2000.0            5.0             2.8
Input     Oty/he                                                  Input
Planting                                                          Planting
Material  100.0            5.0                5.0                 Iateria  100.0             3.5             2.9
Urea      100.0            0.8                4.8                 Urea      100.0            0.8             4.8
Co,rpound 300.0            0.8                4.8                 Cipoumn  300.0             0.8             4.8
Packaging                                                         Packaging  100kg/bag c
Material    100kg/bag      6.0                9.0                 Material                   6.0             9.0
Labor    120.0            20.0               17.0                 Labor    80.0             20.0            17.0
Fuel       55.0            0.7                0.7                 Fuel    220.0              0.7            0.7
Total Cost per ha.         3469             4813.5                                         2544.0         3901.0
Profit per ha.           7906.5             6789.0                                         7456.0          1699.0
COWPEA                                                          VEGETABLES
Financils      Economic                                         financial    Economic
Quantity is in            Price           Price                    Ountit is in            Price        Price
kg/ha.                          (price per ko.)                    kg/ha.                         (price per kg.)
1200.0            4.5               3.8                          9000.0             4.0            3.4
Input                                                              Input
Planting                                                            Plantin
Materiat   40.0             7.0                7.0                  Nateria    0.5          300.0           300.0
Copmoad  200.0              0.8                4.8                 Urea      250.0            0.8             4.8
Ch_icals    7.0            70.0               60.0                 Coawpoea   250.0           0.8             4.8
Packaging                                                           Packagig  100kg/bag
Material   100.0            6.0                9.0                  oaterial                  6.0             9.0
Labor      t00.0           20.0               17.0                  Labor    240.0           20.0            17.0
Fuet       220.0            0.7                0.7                  Fuel    220.0             0.7             0.7
Total Cost per ha          3156             3622.0                                         6044.0          7594.0
Profit per ha.             2244              968.0                                        29956.0         23006.0



- 105 -                                                      Annex XVII
Page 4 of 4
TABLE 4: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN FOR DEVELOPING 50,000 MA. OF IRRIGATED  LAND
Benefits L Returns at 1991 Prices
(in N million)
Year                                            1           2          3           4           5           6           7          8           9
Incre.  enefits                                           48298    110396    224242    353267    353267    304969    249771    142555
Stavles  vatue                                                                                            10125      12574       24563       28125
for WettI
.. . .... ......... ....... ................ ...........................................................................................
Total                                               0     48298    110396    224242    353267    353267    304969    249771    142555
..................................................................................................................
Inecr. Costs
Capitat                                      225883    160006    249666    221201
Recurrent                                       4467        5307        5869       6058        6058        6058        6058        6058       6058
,...................................................... ........................................................
Totat Cost at 1991 Prices                    230351    165313    255535    227258              6058        6058       6058        6058        6058
,.............................................................    .......................
Net Incr.  lenfits                          -230351   -117015   *145139           .3017    347209    347209    298911    243713    136497
...................................................................................................
ERR                    24.34



- 106 -
Annex XVIII
Page I of 1
b3GERIA
NATIONAL FADAMA DEVE?4EN PROJE$;
Cost Recovery Arrangements
1.    The following full cost recovery arrangements are proposed for various components of
the project financed by the Bank, and state and federal governments. The arrangements cover
the direct cost recovery from farmers as well as indirect cost recovery measures. The details
of the cost recovery arrangements will be finalized at negotiations.
2.    On-FanM Investment (USS51.5). This includes the cost of shallow-tubewells with
pumps from the loan, which will be fully recovered from farmers over a repayment period of
not longer than five years. Farmers will be charged an interest rate which will not be less
than the interest rate charged by commercial banks for similar loans with similar purpose. At
present, the interest rate charged by commercial banks on medium to long term loans vary
between 18% to 21%. The present interest rate on the World Bank loan is about 8% and the
projected average rate of depreciation of Naira is 7% per annum. Therefore, if the farmers
are charged 21% interest rate, the SlAs will receive the margin of about 6% after allowing
for depreciation of Naira. Assuming that farmers will have to repay to SIAs over five years,
the SIAs will earn about US$15 million from this interest spread. This amount is adequate to
recover the total cost of fadama roads and marketing and storage infrastructure (US$3.5
million), institutional development (US$7.5 million) and monitoring at state level (US$2.6
million), as well as unforeseen contingencies. Any changes in the interest rate structure will
be communicated to the Bank.
3.    Access Roads (US$7.1 million). The benefits of access roads accrue to fadama as
well as adjacent upland farmers and hence the related costs, amounting to about US$3.5
million, will not be recovered directly from fadama farmers. Such costs will be indirectly
recovered by LGAs through their collection of market cess. The present market cess is N20
per ton of agricultural commodities. Assuming that the farmers irrigate 0.5 ha of land per
shallow-tubewell and grow paddy in wet season, and wheat and vegetables in the dry season;
it is estimated that LGAs will be able to collect cess of US$0.3 million per annum because of
this project. This amount is adequate to recover the full cost of access roads over their life.
4.    Intutional Development (USS7.5 million). As indicated in para 2, this cost will be
filly recovered directly from beneficiaries.
5.    Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation (USS8. 1 million). This comprises of the cost of
planning, monitoring and evaluation, and studies including environmental assessment at
federal level. Ihese costs will be met through general revenues not specifically charged to
the project.



- 107 -
AnnexXfX
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NAEONAL FADAMA DEYELODPrENTPROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROlECT FILE
A.       uckgrgound
1.    Strategy for Agricultural Growth in Nigeria     World Bank
Agricultural Sector
Report No. 7988-UNI,
December 1989
2.    Agricultural Policy for Nigeria                 Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources
(formerly Federal
Ministry of
Agriculture, Water
Resources and Rural
Development), January
1987, Lagos
3.    Sub-Saharan Africa: From Crisis to Sustainable  World Bank,
Growth - A Long-Term Perspective Study         Washington, D.C.,
November 1989
4.    Small-Scale Irrigation Development for Nigeria  FACU, 1988
5.    Food Security and Nutrition Study for Nigeria   World Bank, 1991
6.    Project Completion Reports for Bauchi, Kano     FAO/CP, 1991
and Sokoto ADPs
7.    Draft Initiating Memorandum for Fertilizer      World Bank, 1990
Sector Adjustment Loan for Nigeria
B.    Project Identification and Preparation Renort
1.    Small Scale Irrigation Component (Fadama        FACU, 1991
Development) ADF I



- 108 -
Annex
Page 2 of 2
2.    Thematic Supervision Mission of Fadama          FAO/CP, 1989
Component in ADPs
3.    Watari Irrigation Project: Final Report         KNARDA, October
on Updating of Feasibility Study                1987
4.    Project Completion Reports for Bauchi,
Kano and Sokoto ADPs
C.    W.rlking Papars
1.    Supply of Credit for Fadama Developent in Project States
2.    Role of Private Sector in Fadama Development
3.    Functions and Working of FUAs
4.    Environmental Impact Analysis of Fadama Development in
Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto
;



MAP SECTION
i



~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
1<AA+ CCHAD
NIGER ~    ~      ~ ~ NGEI
BURKINA                                         NDI
OC/  -                                                     BENat/F                                           PROJC  STATES   
> ~~~~~~~~~~EOGUk>S -                                                                            C a ity- o
KENtN       }                            b'~~~\)SA$.(~~\DJA         Th Wod   .tf 2dv      - * 
AWICA ~11AW
IMOJiii ' '' 'Gs?              ou pI O
{    q NIN                                        KADUNA sABUJA                        1 IgAf _                    B t,  d l
KAIJNA                     ,.n  0cp(e '   O ,  -nNA
.  gBAozN   ()SU       i    K(4l                 wt-            < -   [sMINNA            rM NAIVL
%\H;   couRT4  ~   j'                .cd, booodAAN..   GF
C                             \f f~~~~9>   " i0,\ >'CROSS'   -I    it6o'                      0          *OE OAEUNDAJSANNMSNIAE
CD~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~C
IC)OGBO            LOTA                                                                      NIGERIA
[BADAN~ ~~ 05UN               JAAB                                                                ONA  FADAMAf    -  t  s
a~~~~~~~~~~~ DoL                                                                                            PRfF    o40  oroa   NAOJlfDECf- SOTATE7HSlt
OC,__   UN                                                                                                                             b



.~~~~~ ~ II
The w bw bm:gqxwd                                                                                         CHADN
"OVbiBos lm             NI G ER                          NIIGERIA                                       4>CA
fw *A ewnwni Of                               U d                                     I,
of R WOW          0                  is NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
; bdow ;; >G ^W GROUNDWATER PROVINCES-
m                                        I 0 it  ;  10 C CA
8ENIN ot =W to                                                          -       , k.-y
=Wwaz --p.g.*w-lo-rw C
3UsOKO/TO5
_   @  ,               7 ^s                                         /~~~~~~~AN
FSOs, 
_ a   z.e\. ,f,\.\ .vCLALL~S                                       NE5^NDJosE
-   KW*6T.KXRE    1 AWRE                                                                   '_
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al NOIE                                                            SOKOTO,N  aASf f
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSA ALsUt M1019t.-5  1AND.                                           ;
E~~~~Ru                                                                         MANFXCOE Al TPISH       TDfW NK BASINe~ 
i!   ORSEDADASOFTfZSDSE,NOT  sw  aB   *   42  *e   w       -~~~~~~~~~~RMCOU            ANM1  C BAt



