                                                                             93615 November 1, 2012
Nigeria: Culture of Feedback Key to Boosting Community Participation and Building Rural
Livelihoods
Synopsis
Increased focus on generating community feedback in the Nigeria Fadama project is helping to improve rural livelihoods by deepening the
quality and quantity of communication between development practitioners, governments, and community members. Results have included
a strong network of grassroots associations well-poised to capably harness the successful piloting of a new SMS-based system.

Challenge
“Fadama” is a Hausa name for irrigable land--usually low-lying plains underlaid by shallow aquifers found along Nigeria's major river
systems. The land is fertile and water is easily accessible, but the Fadamas have also been the scene of conflict among farmers,
fishermen, and pastoralists who are vying for land, water, and grazing resources. As a result, Fadama farmers have struggled in the face
of grinding poverty and livelihoods have been undercut by low agricultural yields.

The challenge has been further compounded by poor communication mechanisms and lack of participatory community dialogue. Not only
have women and marginalized groups often been relegated to the background, but there has often been no avenue or mechanism for
community members to proactively express their concerns and offer suggestions or ideas. Even when new infrastructure was added to
support livelihoods, the lack of feedback mechanisms has often meant that the infrastructure was not designed in a way that ensured
sustainability or truly met community needs.

“Ensuring inclusive, participatory processes for determining investment priorities and improving community-government dialogue has been
a central focus of the project from the beginning,” said World BankSenior Agricultural Specialist Abimbola Adubi. “This has required
challenging societal norms through ongoing dialogue to give voice to women and marginalized groups that had traditionally been
relegated to the background.”

Approach
The project approach has placed a premium on creating feedback and dialogue around the infrastructure that it built. Local community
members, under the umbrella of Fadama Community Associations and Fadama User Groups, have overseen the design and
implementation of the infrastructure investments. Specific mechanisms for ensuring transparency and citizen feedback have included
widely posted signs explaining how projects are financed, a dedicated phone line for complaints, and employing specific community
members to act as community facilitators. The community associations hold regular meetings, which creates a time and place for citizens
to express their views. The project approach also incorporates the launch of a third party monitoring component, which will engage a local
civil society organization to assess the project delivery and satisfaction using an SMS-based pilot mechanism. 

“We are creating a culture of feedback where community members are proactively expressing not only their concerns, but also their ideas
and suggestions,” said World Bank Consultant Merrick Schaefer, “Although several feedback mechanisms had been introduced by the
project, there is still a desire to strengthen these through better integration and the leveraging of mobile phone technology. Our goal is to
find a mobile technology solution that is scalable, re-usable, works across sectors and is cost accessible for beneficiaries to provide
feedback. We want to use mobile technology to get as close as possible to beneficiaries.”

Beneficiary Results
The Fadama project has developed a vibrant network of inclusive community networks. These networks have created over 2,000 local
development plans that actively incorporate the viewpoints of all stakeholders. Female participation in decision-making has increased
monumentally and women now account for 40 percent of all participants. These associations ensure that community members are active
in all stages of the project cycle and report on issues such as lack of capacity, fund disbursement, delays, and troubleshooting.

Under the leadership of the national Civil Society Consultative Group, 24 civil society organizations  have begun implementing a third party
monitoring system in eight states and more than 40 local government areas.

The Fadama project has also launched a promising mobile phone and SMS-based system that will allow beneficiaries to provide feedback
on a variety of indicators from the performance of project staff to suggestions on how to improve the timing of funds disbursement. Local
farmers have already used this system to provide feedback that discounted fertilizer arrived too late for the use in the last growing season.

World Bank Contribution
The Fadama III project includes US$450 million, with $250 million from the International Development Association (IDA), the World Bank's
Fund for the Poorest, and $200 million from the Nigerian government and beneficiaries. The World Bank has also provided technical
assistance, drawing upon its experience with community driven development approaches in other countries.

Development Partners
The Fadama project is currently operating in all the 36 states of Nigeria including the Federal Capital Territory. Within each state, local
governments implement the project with close oversight coming from the state government. The Fadama Desk Officers operate at the
local level to facilitate project implementation.  Day-to-day direction and facilitation of community feedback comes from the Fadama
Community Associations and the Fadama User Groups. In addition, the Fadama project is partnering with 24 civil society organizations
operating under the umbrella of the Civil Society Consultative Group to implement a third party monitoring system to assess project
effectiveness and beneficiary satisfaction.

Moving Forward
In the past few years, the Fadama project has built strong networks of community associations and user groups. The next phase will
involve scaling up the feedback that these networks provide by further integrating mobile technology into implementation. Focus groups,
sign posts, phone complaint systems, and piloting of an SMS network should be seen as a starting point for a system of feedback
mechanisms that can provide both more quantitative and more qualitative information on project implementation.

 
