FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 103a-LBR
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
LIBERIA
May 7, 1973
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division
Th|i report was prepued for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be pubisrhed, quotod
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibgtty for the
wcucy or completenoss of the report.



Currency Eq4uivalents
US$1.00  -  idb$1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - Decenber 31
System of Weights and Measuress British/US
British/US                 Metric
1 foot (ft)               0.305 meter (ma)
1 mile (mi)           =  1.61 kilometera (Oa)        2
1 square mile (sq mi) =  2.59 aquare kilometers (km )
1 ton (long ton)      =   1.016 metric tons (ma tons)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB    - African Development Bank
MW    - Ministry of Public Wbrks and Utilities
NPA    - National Port Authority
SAUTI - Sauti Overseas (conaultants, Italy)
UNDP  - United Nations Development Programe
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
vpd    - vehicles per day



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY.................................. ii
1.  INTRODUCTION    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
2.  THIE TRANSPORT SECTOR................                        2
A.  Economic Setting .............. ..                       2
B.  The Transport System .  .. . ... . .. ..  ....           2
C.  Transport Planning, Policy, and Coordination . . . .     3
3.  HIGHWAYS    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
A.  The  Network  .  .  .  .  ,,  .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  4
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic . . . . .    4
C.  Administration . . .  . . . . a . . . *.     . . .       5
Do  Planning and Financiig .    .  ...   .        ..  .....  6
E.  Engineering and Consl:ruction . . . .    . . . . . . . .  7
F.  Maintenance      o    o o * a .        . .     .  a .    8
4.  THE PROJECT . . . .      . . . . . . . . .  . . . .   . .    8
A.  Description  . . .  .  . . e . v . . v . . . * . . . .   8
- Technical Assistance to MPW  . . . . . . . . . . .    10
- Purchase of Highway Maintenance Equipment
and Spare Parts , . . . .  . .  .  .... . .. .     11
- Construction of Workshop Facilities  a . . . . . .    11
- Upgrading of the Monrovia Bypass . . . . . . . . *    11
- Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering . . .    12
B.  Cost Estimates  .      .  .  .  .  . * .....     . . a. . .   . .    12
Co  Execution    .  .  o  . .    .   .   .   .     . . .  .  .   . .    . .  .  14
D.  Financing and Disbursements  . .  . . . . . . . . .    15
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION           ...  .  ...  . . . . . . . ..    16
A*  General    .       .       . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  16
B.  Highway Maintenance Program  . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
C.  Upgrading of Monrovia Bypass . .  .  .  . . . . .    17
D.  Other Project Elements o   .. . . . . . . .... . .    18
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND REiCOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . .    18
This report was prepared by Meissrs. C. Delapierre (Engineer/Economist, PMWA),
and P. Gyamfi (Economist). Th,e project was appraised in October/November 1972.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
T_BLES
1.  Five-Year Highway Maintenance and Development Program
2.   Development of the Highway Network
.3. Vehicle Registration and Gasoline Consumption, 1961-70
4.   MPW Bureau of Operations - Personnel
5.   MPW Bureau of Operations - Highway Maintenance Budget
6.   Technical Assistance Requirements
7.   Equipment Needs for Proposed Highway Maintenance Program
8.   Cost Estimates by Project Item
9.   Estimated Expenditures over the Project Period
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX     Summary of Economic Analysis of Project
CHART
Proposed Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and
Utilities - World Bank 7358R
Highway Network - IBRD 10292R
City of Monrovia - IBRD 10291R



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The transport system of Liberia consists of about 4,200 mi of
roads, 300 mi of privately-owned railways, four seaports, and five airports.
Almost all the traffic carried by the railways consists of the country's
production of iron ore, its main export; roads are the principal mode used
for internal transport. While there has been a determined effort over the
past 20 years to develop the road network, it still remains small for a
country of Liberia's size and pc,pulation. The Government's development
strategy accords high priority to roads.
ii.       Previous Bank Group lending in the transport sector has totalled
about US$7.9 million which helped finance one project for road construction
and the purchase of maintenance equipment, and another for dredging the port
of Monrovia.
iii.      The proposed Second Highway Project is a component of the Govern-
ment's Five-Year Highway Mainten,ance and Development Program which is based
on recent studies, primarily a h,ighway organization and maintenance study
financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for which the
Bank acted as Executing Agency, and a Bank-financed feasibility study of the
Monrovia Port access roads. The project provides for: (a) technical assist-
ance to coordinate the various project activities of the five-year program;
(b) technical assistance for reorganization and improvement of highway main-
tenance operations, training of maintenance personnel, and a study of the
local road construction industry; (c) purchase of maintenance equipment and
spare parts; (d) construction of and equipment for maintenance workshop
facilities; (e) upgrading the Monrovia Bypass; and (f) feasibility studies
and detailed engineering. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$14.1 million, which will be met jointly by the Bank/IDA, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the Federal Republic of Germany,
UNDP, and the Government of Liberia. Bank/IDA participation is expected to
be about US$5.6 million (39% of total project costs).
iv.       The maintenance element of the project will assist the Ministry of
Public Works and Utilities (MPW) in reorganizing and improving road mainten-
ance operations. Consulting services for technical assistance and training
are provided over a four-year period. These investments are expected to
yield an overall economic return above 30%.
v.        Upgrading the Monrovia Bypass to all-weather two-lane paved road
will relieve traffic congestion on the access roads to the port, and will
considerably improve traffic conditions in and around Monrovia. This Bypass
is presently a two-lane laterite surface road which has deteriorated so much
that it is almost impassable during the rainy season. Upgrading the road to
paved standard is expected to yield an economic return of about 42%.



- ii -
vi.       The project is suitable for Bank/IDA lending to the Governnment of
Libetia in a total amount of US$5.6 million,- conslsting of a Loan of US$3.0
million and a Credit of US$2.6 million.  An appropriate Loa* term would be
25 years with a 5-year period of grace.  The Credit would be made on the
usual terms.



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In connection with its overall review of Liberia's development
problems and potential, the new administration which took office in January
1972 is emphasizing improved transport as a vital component in future develop-
ment strategy. Already, a five-year program for highway maintenance and
development has been prepared (para. 4.02 and Table 1). The program is based
primarily on two recent investigations: (i) a study on highway organization
and maintenance, financed by UNDP with the Bank acting as Executing Agency,
carried out by the consultants SAUTI (Italy) in 1971; and (ii) a feasibility
study of the Monrovia Port acciess roads conducted by Stanley Consultants (US)
and financed under a Bank Loan for a port project (617-LBR, US$3.6 million,
1969). In October 1972, the GDvernment convened a highway aid coordination
meeting, the main purpose of wlhich was: (a) to brief potential donors on the
five-year program and its financing requirements (about US$40 million), and
(b) to seek commitments or indications of interest in financing it.
1.02      The proposed Second lHighway Project is a component of the above-
mentioned five-year program, aind will include: (a) reorganization and im-
provement of highway maintenan,ce operations over a four-year period; (b) up-
grading the Monrovia Bypass 1/; and (c) feasibility studies and detailed
engineering. The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$14.1
million, with a foreign exchange cost of about US$11.9 million. Project costs
will be met jointly by the Bank/IDA (about 39%), USAID (about 30%), the
Federal Republic of Germany (about 13%), UNDP (about 1%), and the Government
(about 17%). The Bank/IDA share, to be met by a Bank Loan of US$3.0 million
and an IDA Credit of US$2.6 million, will be used exclusively for foreign
exchange expenditures.
1.03      The proposed project will be the third Bank Group operation in the
transport sector of Liberia. A first highway project (Loan 368-LBR, US$3.25
million, 1964) consisted of construction of about 62 mi of new roads and
paving of about 27 mi of these (see Map IBRD 10292R), as well as the procure-
ment of road maintenance equipiment, spare parts, and workshop facilities.
For the construction element of the project, the engineering carried out by
the Department of Public Works and Utilities was inadequate; extensive
re-designing was necessary which involved substantially increased quantities
of work, and the extension of the Closing Date of the Loan by two years.
These changes resulted in a request by the Government for a supplementary
loan of US$1 million which was approved in 1965 (Loan 368-LBR amended). Al-
though some failures have occurred during exceptionally heavy rainy seasons,
the eventual quality of the work was generally adequate. About US$860,000
was spent on maintenance equipment and vehicles which were put into service
in 1965. The entire project was completed and the Loan fully disbursed by
the last revised Closing Date of June 30, 1969.
1/   The two-lane laterite-surfaced highway which bypasses the capital city
of Monrovia.



i1.04     A second Bank Loan for transport (617-LBR, US$3.6 million, 1969)
helped finance a project for dredging the Port of Monrovia and providing man-
agement assistance to the Port Administration and the National Port Authority.
This project was executed and completed satisfactorily. The Government has
proposed that remaining funds (about US$330,000) be used to carry out a com-
prehensive port development study (para. 2.07).
1.05      This report is based on the studies mentioned above (para. 1.01),
and on the findings of a mission comprising Messrs. C.R. Delapierre (Engineer/
Economist, IBRD Permanent Mission in Western Africa) and P. Gyamfi (Economist)
which visited Liberia in October/November 1972.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The terrain in Liberia is generally flat, and presents no major
topographic obstacles to transport.  However, dense forests in the interior
of the country, swampy areas on the coast, and the absence of good road-making
sotils, make road construction in those parts expensive.
2.02      Total population in 1970 was 1.5 million, of which almost 75% was
in rural areas, and about 150,000 - 200,000 in Monrovia, the capital. Per
capital Gross Domestic Product in 1971 was about US$250, which is high compared
with most African countries. However, the economy suffers from a dichotomy
between a prosperous enclave sector and an underdeveloped subsistence sector.
The Government's past economic policy has encouraged large-scale (mostly foreign)
private investments in iron-mining and in rubber; but apart from the actual
mining operations, these investments produce few jobs for Liberians and, since
the products are processed abroad, stimulate only a few industries. Recent
Government objectives to develop agriculture and to reduce migration to Monrovia
by promoting rural development would be considerably hampered if presently in-
adequate transport facilities were not improved.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      Liberia's transport system consists of about 4,200 mi of roads,
300 mi of privately-owned railways, four seaports, and five airports of which
two provide international services. For internal transport, the country
depends almost entirely on roads, and the Government has accorded high priority
to upgrading the network.
2.04      Railways are all privately owned by the mining companies, and haul
primarily iron ore (about 20 million tons in 1971). The only exception is
the Mount Nimba-Buchanan line (164 mi) which, in addition to ore, also carries
annually about 10,000 tons of rubber and 6,000 tons of logs, and about 150
passengers daily. The Government recognizes the need for using railways for
commercial traffic to complement the existing road network, and is examining
how this could best be achieved.



- 3 -
2.05      The seaports together handle a total of about 22.5 million tons of
cargo annually, of which about 90% is iron ore. The Monrovia port is the
most ir,mportant, handling about 55% of total traffic; the port of Buchanan ac-
counts for about 40%. The minor shallow water ports of Greenville and Cape
Palmas handle mostly logs (about 150,000 tons per annum). Coastal shipping is
insignificant.
2.06      Responsibility for ownership and operation of ports is vested in
the National Port Authority (NPA) which was established in 1967 but is not
yet in full effective control. At Monrovia, NPA operates the commercial quays,
but iron ore is handled by various concessionary companies at their own berths.
Buchanan is largely an iron ore port which is at present wholly managed by a
concessionary company. The minor ports are managed by NPA with the assistance
of private companies.
2.07      NPA faces technical difficulties in maintaining the smaller ports
and in planning their development for the prospective export of timber pro-
ducts and possibly of other commodities. Further problems have arisen regard-
ing the siting of port facilities, and of road and rail access, to handle
the expected development of new, iron ore deposits in Liberia and in neighbor-
ing countries which might wish to export through its ports. To help remedy
these problems, the Bank has agreed in principle to the Government's using
remaining funds under Loan 617-LBR (para. 1.04) for a comprehensive port
development study to assist NPA in the orderly development of its ports.
C.   Transport Planning, Policy, and Coordination
2.08      Priority needs in the transport sector, as identified by recent
studies, are as follows:  (a) to alleviate growing congestion in and around
the Monrovia port, a prime center of economic activity; (b) to upgrade key
primary roads, and to improve amd extend secondary and feeder roads into
rural areas where the Government's agricultural development activities are
or will be centered; and (c) to improve the efficiency of highway maintenance
operations. This latter need iLs especially important in view of the deter-
ioration of the road system, atnd the inadequacy of the equipment fleet.
2.09      In order to satisfy these needs effectively, transport planning
will have to be coordinated. Railways have been privately developed and
are operated to serve the enclave sectors (mining and rubber); ports have
been administered separately under management contracts, and their devel-
opment has been based on their individual financial and operational cap-
abilities rather than on the overall economic requirements of the country.
The full impact of this had not previously been felt because the transport
system was still at the primary stage of its development, and the major thrust
had been towards meeting immedLate needs. Now, however, inadequate planning
has manifested itself in a lackc of integration between the development of ports
and the roads serving their hinterland (the port of Buchanan is a prime example
of this), and in difficulties in coordinating the development of transport with
related sectors of the economy.



-4-
2.10      Responsibility for transport planning and development is presently
not clearly defined, and is shared primarily by the Ministry of Commerce, In-
dustry and Transportation, the Ministry of Public Works and Utilities (MPW),
and the National Port Authority (NPA). However, the Government is anxious
to promote more closely coordinated planning and development in the entire
sector, and is considering the possibility of technical assistance to achieve
this.
2.11      The proposed project provides for recruitment of a transport plan-
ner (paras. 3.10 and 4.05) who would be assigned to MPW and who would assist
the Ministry in preparing a comprehensive highway development plan. The
eKpert will work closely with NPA and its consultants for the proposed port
development study (para. 2.07), and is expected to coordinate his activities
w:Lth the Government's overall development planning. The Government has agreed
ait negotiations that MPW's highway planning will be synchronized with the
country's overall planning activities.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      Roads have been developed over the past 20 years mainly with tech-
nical aid from the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads, financial aid from the U.S.
Export-Import Bank (Exim Bank), and suppliers' credits. More recently, USAID,
the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Bank have also contributed to devel-
opment of the network. The result of these efforts is that whereas in 1950
there were only about 300 mi of unsurfaced roads in poor condition, the net-
work today totals about 4,170 mi; of these, almost 2,900 mi are public roads,
and the remainder private roads constructed by various concessions, but open
to public use. Despite the concentrated development effort, however, the
system as a whole remains inadequate; some areas of the country have only
poor road connections, and certain other areas are not served at all. (See
Map IBRD 10292R).
3.02      The public network is classified into primary, secondary, and farm-
to-market roads (Table 2). The primary system comprises about 1,140 mi of
all-weather roads which connect important population centers and which carry
fairly high traffic volumes. The secondary system consists of about 490 mi
of all-weather roads. The farm-to-market roads connect villages and agricul-
tural areas with main roads, and are usually no more than about 10 mi long.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      There are little data on traffic flows outside Monrovia.  No traffic
counting program exists, so that a comparison of available data over a period
of several years does not allow meaningful conclusions. Traffic surveys were
organized in 1969 by MPW, and in 1971 its consultants (SAUTI) carried out an
or'gin/destination survey.  Traffic in the Monrovia area was studied in 1967
by MPW, and again in 1971 by Stanley Consultants as part of the feasibility



study of the Monrovia Port access roads. Results indicated relatively high
traffic volumes on public roads: 150 mi of these carry more than 1,000 vehi-
cles per day (vpd), and 1,100 mi more than 100 vpd; on roads nearer to
Monrovia, volumes of between 2,000 and 5,000 vpd were counted. On the basis
of a thorough analysis of econonmic trends, SAUTI forecast that traffic on the
more important roads can be expected to increase at about 5% annually over the
next five years. Consultants to be provided under the proposed project will
help MPW establish a traffic counting program. The Government has agreed at
negotiations that it will initiLate appropriate traffic counting techniques,
and will maintain a permanent organization for collecting and processing traffic
data.
3.04      Statistics from the Ministry of Commerce and Transport are un-
reliable, and have to be used with caution; they do indicate, however, that
the vehicle fleet grew by aboult 11% annually over the past ten years to about
23,000 units in 1970 (Table 3). About 60% of the fleet consists of passenger
cars.
3.05      Government policy encourages development of the road transport in-
dustry. There are no administrative restrictions on vehicle imports. A
truck license is readily obtainable and is the only requirement for entering
the transport business; the resulting free competition evidently offers excel-
lent opportunity for small trucking firms. Regulations on vehicle weight and
dimensions are poorly enforced. Accordingly, during negotiations, the Bank/IDA
obtained the Government's assurance that it will strengthen the enforcement of
vehicle regulations and provide the staff necessary for this purpose.  The
Government has already taken the initiative in this respect by establishing
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles within the Ministry of Justice, effective from
March 1973.
C.   Administration
3.06      MPW is responsible for the public highway network; its functions
are performed through four Bur,eaus, one each for Administrative Services,
Technical Services, Operations, and Construction (see Organization Chart).
The Bureau of Operations is reisponsible for public properties and for main-
taining public roads. MPW alSgD has a Planning Division which reports directly
to the Deputy Minister.
3.07      In 1970, MPW employed about 2,100 persons, of whom about 1,800 were
assigned to the Bureau of Operations. SAUTI had recommended under the UNDP
study (para. 1.01) that about 1,660 well-trained personnel should be made
available to carry out the maintenance program (Table 4); except for the
engineers, the actual number of personnel are nominally available in MPW, but
the majority of these are not trained for their respective positions. The
shortage of engineers in the country results primarily from low Government
salaries. Aware of this, MPW had recommended as far back as 1969 that salaries
be raised in order to attract engineers from the private sector and from
abroad. This finally resulted in the salaries of engineers and technicians
being raised by 25% in January 1973. The Government is confident that it can
now recruit the engineers required for MPW, and has given its assurance that



- 6 -
it will formulate a program satisfactory to the Bank/IDA to attract engineers
to its civil service in sufficient numbers.
3.08      The proposed reorganization program is also in vital need of me-
chanics, operators, and foremen, and about 300 of MPW's Bureau of Operations
staff will require additional training. The Government's Technical Institute
at Kakata was designed to provide advanced vocational education, and to train
technicians; however, the mission which recently appraised an education proj-
ect in Liberia does not consider the Institute to be the right training center
for MPW. 1/ More effective training for MPW staff could be provided at two
pilot maintenance centers financed by a grant from the Federal Republic of
Gernmany which have been established at Buchanan and Greenville. These centers
have the necessary equipment, and were established to provide on-the-job
training for the personnel required to maintain about 290 mi of roads constructed
with German financial assistance. Since their establishment in 1971, about 25
persons have been trained at the two centers. To allow training of the 300 MPW
employees within the four-year program, and at the request of the Liberian
Government, the Federal Republic of Germany has agreed to expand its program at
the centers (para. 4.07).
D.   Planning and Financing
3.09      The Planning Division of MPW is in charge of collecting statistical
data and planning highways, but it is understaffed and poorly equipped. High-
way investment to date has been decided only on an ad hoc basis, and the new
five-year highway maintenance and development program is the first attempt to
base important investment decisions on a comprehensive study of the mode.
3.10      To help it function more efficiently, the Planning Division needs
to be strengthened. As indicated previously (para. 2.11), a transport planner
will help prepare a comprehensive program to develop highways, and will train
Liberian counterparts. Once strengthened, the tasks of the Division will be:
(i) to collect traffic and inventory data on the entire network; (ii) to
ana'Lyze construction and maintenance costs; and (iii) to assess priorities
for road construction and improvement in accordance with general development
planls.
3.11      Road construction works have been financed largely from foreign
loans. A supplier credit of US$23 million was signed in 1962, and the Bank
lent US$3.25 million in 1964, supplemented by a loan of US$1.0 million in 1965
(Loan 368-LBR); in 1971, USAID committed US$4.4 million for financing four
rural roads. The Federal Republic of Germany has also participated in develop-
ment of the highway network. The Exinabank provided some financing for the
purchase of road maintenance equipment over the period 1951-63. The results
of all these efforts have been satisfactory, but much still remains to be done
(para, 3.01).
1/ Report No. PE-39a, March 9, 1972.



- 7 -
3.12      Expenditures for highway administration and maintenance are financed
from the general budget. MPW's budget is prepared annually by its Finance
Division on the basis of estimates from its four Bureaus (para. 3.06).
Except for personnel services, it is not required that every item of expendi-
ture be supported by detailed statements. SAUTI has now proposed programming
and budgeting techniques which would indicate the purposes of programs requested.
Accordingly, budget preparation and cost accounting procedures will be improved
under the proposed project following the consultants' recommendations.
3.13      Over the period 1968-72, recurrent expenditures for road maintenance
and for MPW salaries increased from US$1.2 million to US$1.9 million, or by
about 12% annually (Table 5). The allocation for maintenance operations alone
rose by about 7.5% annually to alinost US$1 million, but this is not enough to
keep the network in adequate ccondition. During negotiations, the Government
provided the assurance that it would increase the funds allocated for road
maintenance (para. 4.25).
3.14      There are no reliable data for gasoline consumption and imported
vehicles; moreover, the Ministry of Finance states that about half of Liberian
imports subject to customs duties are in fact brought in duty-free, primarily
because of the many exemptions granted to certain companies. The import duty
on all motor vehicles and spare! parts is 28%, and on tires 30%. Duty on
gasoline amounts to USJ14 and on diesel oil US411 per gallon. Annual regis-
tration taxes range from US$40 for small cars to about US$170 for trucks.
3.15      Total revenues from road user charges cannot be calculated accurately
for lack of data, but SAUTI has estimated the amount collected at a minimum of
US$1.5 million in 1968, and at US$2.5 million in 1970. These figures indicate
that revenues more than cover recurrent highway expenditures; however, more
refined statistics should be provided. The Planning Division of MPW, appro-
priately strengthened with a transport planner (para. 3.10), will make a
study of the revenues from road user charges, and will formulate recommendations
concerning type of taxes and appropriate levels. During negotiations, the Gov-
ernment provided the assurance that it will give the Bank/IDA an opportunity to
review these recommendations and to offer comments.
E.   Engineering and Construction
3.16      Foreign consultants are used for engineering of major highway proj-
ects. MPW's Bureau of Technical Services designs minor works, for example
farm-to-market roads, which are generally carried out by the Ministry's own
forces. The Bureau appears competent in its function, in which it is assist-
ed by MPW's soils and materials testing laboratory.
3.17      Major road construction is carried out mostly by contract on the
basis of competitive bidding. Only two Liberian-owned contracting firms have
experience in road and bridge coDnstruction. To date, three foreign firms with
established local branches have executed contracts. The question of developing
the local construction industry in Liberia was discussed with the Government
during negotiations, and it was agreed to include in the present project a



- 8 -
study for promotion of the industry, in particular for road works (para. 4.08).
MPW's regional districts supervise road construction, with assistance provided
by foreign consultants for some of the works.
F.  Maintenance
3.18      The Bureau of Operations is responsible for public properties and
for highway maintenance, and performs this task through six Regional District
and County offices, each headed by a Resident Engineer. The principal func-
tion of a District office is the direct supervision of field operations.
Maintenance and repair of highway equipment is done by the Bureau's Mobile
Equipment Division which comprises the Central Workshops at Monrovia and five
field stations.
3.19      SAUTI considers that the present maintenance organization must be
strengthened if the highway network is to be kept in good condition. Several
slhortcomings are noticeable, including: (i) lack of supervision from Head-
quarters over decisions and operations of Resident Engineers; (ii) lack of
reporting to Headquarters of maintenance operations performed; (iii) inaccu-
rate recording of maintenance expenditures; (iv) absence of regular preventive
maintenance for equipment; and (v) inadequacy of programming operations and
fujnd allocations. The weakness of the organization as a whole stems mainly
from the unclear separation of maintenance responsibilities from other tasks
(primarily force accoi t construction), and from a shortage of well-trained
sltaff. The proposed project will provide technical assistance to eliminate
these deficiencies.
3,20      To reorganize MPW, the consultants recommend creating a Highway
Maintenance Division in the Ministry which would have full control over the
regions' maintenance operations on the public highway system, including plan-
ning and programming of operations, and supervision of labor and equipment
usted by Regional Districts. At the same time, the Mobile Equipment Division
will be strengthened in equipment, staff, and budget.
3.21      The organizational and staffing problems are compounded by the short-
age of maintenance equipment. According to the consultants' assessment, MPW's
eqruipment fleet is presently composed of about 200 units, of which more than
55i% are beyond economical repair. The 1964 Bank loan (para. 1.03) had financed
US;$860,000 of maintenance equipment, most of which was delivered in 1965 and
has now outlived its useful service period. Also, over the past ten years,
USAID has provided several batches of highway maintenance equipment; the most
recent lot supplied in 1969 will be reconditioned under the proposed project.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of the following:



-9-
(a)  technical assistance to HPW to coordinate the various project
activities of the Government's program for highway maintenance
and development (including the present project);
(b)  technical assistance to MPW to assist in: (i) its reorganization,
(ii) improvement of highway maintenance operations, (iii)
training of maintenance personnel, and (iv) conducting a
study for promoting the Liberian construction industry;
(c)  purchase of highway maintenance equipment and spare parts;
(d)  construction of and equipment for workshop facilities;
(e)  detailed engineering and construction for upgrading the
Monrovia Bypass (8.4 mi), including supervision of con-
struction; and
(f)  (i)  detailed engineering for access roads to the port of
Monrovia including the Mesurado River bridge, and for
Totota-Ganta roaLd (85 mi);
(ii)  completion of the feasibility study and preparation
of detailed engineering for Paynesville-Robertsfield-
Totota road (70 mi); and
(iii) feasibility study for Monrovia-Mount Coffee Dam road
(15 mi).
4.02      The proposed project is a component of the Government's five-year
highway maintenance and development program which is estimated to cost ap-
proximately US$40 million (Table 1). The program aims at: (i) improving
maintenance of the road network; (ii) rehabilitating paved roads which have
deteriorated beyond normal repair; (iii) improving primary gravel roads which
carry fairly high volumes of traffic; and (iv) providing improved access to
economically strategic centers. The program as a whole is well balanced in
that it provides adequately for improvement of both the primary road network
and of roads in rural areas, and the maintenance element covers requirements
of the entire network. In connection with rural roads, special attention is
being directed to their development, since in addition to the secondary roads
already scheduled in the five-year program for financing by USAID, the
Association will undertake under its ongoing project for integrated agricul-
tural development (Credit 306-1.BR, US$1.2 million, May 1972) a study of re-
quirements in feeder roads and farm tracks in the counties of Lofa and Bong
(Map 10292R).
4.03      In order to carry out: such a large program, it is imperative that a
coordinator acceptable to all najor donors be appointed for a period of at
least three years. His task would be to synchronize the activities of the
participating agencies, and to advise the Government on implementation of the



- 10 -
program; he would report directly to the Minister of Public Works and Utilities.
The Government submitted to UNDP an application for a Program Coordinator) and
that agency has accepted in principle to finance his services; formal agreement
by signature of the UNDP Project Document is expected shortly. The Bank/IDA
will act as Executing Agency for UNDP. The Program Coordinator has already
been selected, and USAID and the German Government have agreed on that selection.
Detailed terms of reference have been prepared in collaboration with the
Coordinator, and agreed with the Government of Liberia.
Technical Assistance to MPW
Reorganization
4.04      Under the proposed reorganization already accepted by the Government,
ME'W will have four Bureaus (see Chart). The Bureau of Administrative Services
will remain as now structured, but its accounting procedures will be changed
arnd improved. The Bureau of Technical Services will maintain its responsibility
for highway engineering. Following the consultants' recommendations, a separate
Bureau to be created will be in charge of construction works. The Bureau of
Operations will remain in charge of all highway maintenance, but it will be
strengthened by the Highway Maintenance Division to be created (para. 3.20);
the six existing regional districts will be supervised by the Chief of the
Bureau. This centralization of all highway maintenance through the Bureau of
Operations is expected to achieve better planning and supervision, and conse-
quently, more efficient use of public funds. The Planning Division will be
reinforced with additional staff.
Improvement of Highway Maintenance Operations
4.05      Technical assistance requirements for MPW to carry out the maintenance
program are estimated at 325 man-months over four years (Table 6). Three ex-
perts will be assigned to the Highway Maintenance Division to plan and supervise
maintenance operations. Another group of three experts will be associated with
the Mobile Equipment Division to organize the Central and District workshops.
One expert will establish cost accounting and data processing systems within
the Bureau of Administrative Services. A transport planner will be assigned to
the Planning Division for various periods over the four years to prepare, in con-
junction with a team of Liberian engineers and economists, a comprehensive
highway development program for the coming decade (para. 3.10).
4.D6      The experts will train counterpart staff.  During negotiations, the
Government provided the assurance that it will assign counterparts in sufficient
numbers, and with adequate education and experience.
Training of Maintenance Personnel
4.07      In order to train MPW staff (about 300 employees) over four or five
ye,ars, the ongoing programs financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (para.
3.08) will be expanded, and the five experts already in the field will be
su:.-plemented by three others (Table 6). A training adviser will be made avail-
abLe for a few months to assist MPW in selecting trainees and in preparing the



- 11 -
training program. The Liberiani Government will provide classrooms and dor-
mitories to accommodate about 60 trainees per year. The Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany has already made an initial commitment of about
US$700,000 equivalent to finance the costs of the expanded training program.
Additional funding of about US'$1.2 million equivalent will be required in
mid-1974 to complete the prograim; it is expected that at that time the German
Government will consider favorably a request to be made by the Government of
Liberia to provide such assistatce.
Study for Promoting the LiLberian Construction Industry
4.08      During negotiations on the proposed Loan/Credit, the Liberian
delegation expressed the Government's wish to have more local participation
in construction works financed by external lending agencies. It was there-
fore agreed to include in this project a study of the Liberian construction
industry, and of the steps reqtuired to promote increased capacity and com-
petitiveness of the industry, iLn particular for road works. This study will
be carried out by consultants to be selected in agreement with and under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
Purchase of Highway Maintenance Equipment and Spare Parts
4.09      The project provides for the purchase of new maintenance equipment
and of spare parts for existing equipment which is still economically repair-
able. Equipment needs have been estimated by SAUTI and revised by the Govern-
ment (Table 7). USAID will finiance the purchase of new equipment, spare parts
for reconditioning existing US--manufactured equipment (about 85% of the repair-
able fleet), radio-communications sets, and traffic counters. A formal agree-
ment between USAID and the Government to this effect was signed in February 1973.
Construction of Workshop Facilities
4.10      Of the six existing workshops, two built with German financial
assistance are being used for training purposes; the other four require im-
provements. The buildings are all small, and workshop equipment and tools
are insufficient and obsolete. The Central Equipment Workshop in Monrovia
and three others located at Pli'bo, Wemsoe and Tapeta will be improved and
equipped; two additional workshops will be built at Robertsport and Voinjama
and equipped. Two existing service stations will be modernized, and two new
ones constructed at Zwedru and Ganta.
Upgrading of the Monrovia Bypass (8.4 mi)
4.11      The Monrovia Bypass connects the Kakata Highway east of the capital
to UN Drive at the port of Monrovia (Map IBRD 10291R). The Bypass was origin-
ally planned in 1963 to be built as a four-lane divided highway with a design
speed of 60 mph; however, only the rough grading and major drainage structures
were completed, and laterite surfacing was added later on two lanes. The
Bypass is now in such poor condlition that traffic has to detour to the already
congested city streets of Monrovia. Under the Bank's 1969 port Loan (617-LBR),
Stanley Consultants studied the feasibility of upgrading the Bypass together



- 12 -
with UN Drive and the construction of a second bridge on the Mesurado River,
so as to provide better access to the Monrovia port. The study recommended
paving the existing two lanes of the Bypass, and providing it with a bituminous
concrete carpet of 22 ft width upon a roadway of 42 ft width; the consultants
carried out the preliminary engineering required for this work. The 300 ft
right-of-way along the entire length of the Bypass has adequate width for
widening the road to divided four-lane standard when this is justified. The
proposed project provides for the detailed engineering required for paving
the existing two lanes, as well as for the actual construction work and its
supervision.
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.12      Stanley Consultants' study had also recommended:  (a) improving to
four-lane standard that section of UN Drive nearest to Monrovia; (b) recon-
structing the other two-lane sections of UN Drive; and (c) constructing a new
two-lane bridge across the Mesurado River at Johnson Street. The proposed
project provides for detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents
for work on UN Drive and on the bridge.
4.13      A feasibility study of upgrading the Totota-Ganta road (85 mi)
firLanced by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA, UK) and being carried
out by consultants Ove Arup and Partners (UK) is expected to be completed by
mid-1973. If upgrading is found feasible, the project will provide for the
required detailed engineering.
4.14      The highway maintenance study identified about 70 mi of paved roads
which have deteriorated beyond normal maintenance; the sections are located
on routes from Paynesville (a suburb of Monrovia) to Robertsfield and to
Totota. The proposed project includes consulting services for detailed survey
of these roads to define their exact rehabilitation needs, as well as detailed
engineering and preparation of bidding documents.
4.15      The road Monrovia-Mount Coffee Dam (15 mi) leads to a water supply
plant which generates considerable traffic, to which is added other traffic
originating from settlements in the vicinity and along the road. A feasibility
study included in the project will be undertaken to determine appropriate im-
provements to this road.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.16      The estimated capital costs of the project are detailed in Tables 8
and 9 and summarized below. Costs are estimates as of end-1973, the expected
date of receipt of offers.



- 13 -
Source of                             Proposed
Foreign Ccst      cost (US$ '000)       Bank/IDA
Financing     Local Foreign  Total  Financing
A. Program Coordinator               tNDP ?127                       180
B. Highway Maintenance Program
(a) Consulting services for
reorganization and
strengthening of main-
tenance operations, and
selection of trainees        Bank/IDA        300   1,750   2,050     1,750
(b) Training of maintenance
personnel                    Germany         300   1,900   2,200
(c) Highway maintenance
equipment and spare
parts                        USAID           350   4,300  44,650
(d) Construction and equip-
ment of workshop
facilities                   Bank/IDA         67     300     367        300
Subtotal B                              1,017   8.250   9,267      2.050
C. Upgrading of Monrovia Bypass
Detailed engineering,con-
struction, and su4pervision
of construction_r                 Bank/IDA       850   1,650   2,50o      1,650
D. Feasibility Studiasand
Detailed Ehgineering-1            Bank/IDA       130     800     930        800
E. Study of Construction Industry   Bank/IDA         E      100      115       100
F. Contingencies (on Bank/IDA-
financed items)
Physical (about 10%)           Bank/IDA         75     500     575
Prices (about 10%)              Bank/IDA        75    500       575
Subtotal F                                15o   1.000   1,150      1,000
TOTAL                                   2,21   11,927  IL=        5,600
(rounded)                               2,200  11,900  14,100     5,600
1/  Cost breakdown of specific items is shown in Table 8.



- 14 -
4.17      Costs of consulting services are based on experience with recent
Bank/IDA financed contracts in Western Africa. Costs for the training pro-
gram have been calculated by the Federal Republic of Germany.  The cost
est:imate for highway maintenance equipment and spare parts is based on
market prices (without taxes and duties) in Monrovia.  Costs for shop equip-
ment and remodeling of workshops are based on consultants' estimates.  Cost
est:imates for upgrading works of the Monrovia Bypass are based on the
Stanley Consultants' feasibility study of June 1972; the estimates appear
adequate, since the study contains well-detailed preliminary engineering.
Taxes and duties represent about 23% of the total cost of construction. No
taxes or duties are levied on equipment imported for MPW. An unallocated
amount of about US$400,000 has been included by USAID for physical contingen-
cie8 and variations in the cost of maintenance equipment and spare parts.
About 10% has been added for quantity variations on items to be financed by
the Loan/Credit, and a further 10% for price variations.
C.   Execution
4.18      NPW will be responsible for execution of the project, assisted by
several teams of consultants for the study of the road construction industry,
recrganization of the Ministry, training of MPW staff, feasibility studies,
detailed engineering, and supervision of construction of the Monrovia Bypass.
Con,sultants for the construction industry study, and for reorganization,
feasibility studies, detailed engineering, and construction supervision will
be selected by the Government in agreement with the Bank/IDA; this arrange-
ment has been confirmed at negotiations. Consultants for the training prog,ram
will be selected by the Federal Republic of Germany in agreement with the
Government of Liberia. Signing of the consultantst contracts for technical
assistance for reorganization and detailed engineering of the Monrovia Bypass
will be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit.
4.19      Highway maintenance equipment, spare parts for reconditioning existing
US-manufactured equipment, radio-communication sets, and traffic counters will
be procured and delivered in accordance with USAID procedures. Suppliers will
be required to provide an adequate after-sales service in Monrovia.
4.20      Workshop equipment and tools will be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Specifi-
cations will be prepared by MPW with the assistance of consultants. Bids will
be evaluated on the basis of CIF costs (Monrovia).  These arrangements have
been agreed with the Government. Workshop buildings will be provided by the
Gov,ernment.
4.21      The Monrovia Bypass will be upgraded under a single unit price
contract awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank/IDA guidelines; the Government has agreed to this arrangement.
Detailed engineering and bidding documents will be prepared by consultants.
Wor1ks are expected to start early in 1974 and be completed within 18 months.



- 15 -
4.22      Implementation of the highway maintenance program will not in-
crease employment; some additional equipment operators, foremen, and master-
mechanics will be recruited, but the total MPW labor force will remain about
the same. However, laborers and mechanics employed under the project will be
utilized more efficiently, and will be trained to improve their qualifications.
The upgrading works on the Monrovia Bypass are expected to create direct em-
ployment for about 200 laborers over the expected 18-month construction period.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.23      The total capital cost oL the project is estimated at about US$14.1
million equivalent; of this, about US$11.9 million are foreign exchange costs,
representing about 84% of total capital cost, or 87% of the cost net of taxes.
Proposed Bank/IDA participation of US$5.6 million will cover the foreign costs
of the project items listed in para. 4.16, including retroactive financing of
up to US$50,000 for detailed engineering of the Monrovia Bypass.
4.24      The following table summarizes the approximate breakdown of the fi-
nancing of project costs as detailed in Table 9:
(US$ millions)
Local      Foreign       Total
Bank/IDA                           -          5.6          5.6
USAID                             0.1         4.3          4.4
Germany                            -           1.9         1.9
UNDP                               -          0.1          0.1
Liberia                           2.1          -           2.1
2.2        11.9         14.1
4.25      In addition to its capital investment in providing the local costs
of the project (approximately US$2.1 million equivalent), the Government will
be expected to allocate funds to meet the recurrent cosLs of road maintenance
which will increase over the project period from about US$2 million in 1973
to about US$2.9 million in 1977 (Table 9). These annual allocations are
necessary to assure adequate maintenance of the network and regular renewal
of the equipment fleet. The Government has confirmed at negotiations that it
will meet the local capital and recurrent costs of the project as set out in
Table 9. In order to ensure a proper cash flow for the project, the Govern-
ment also agreed to set up within the Development Budget a revolving fund
which would be replenished periodically out of the general budget (para. 3.13).
4.26      Disbursements from the Loan/Credit account will be made on the
following basis:
(a)  the actual foreign exchange cost of consulting services for
technical assistance, feasibility studies and detailed en-
gineering, construction supervision, and the study of the
Liberian construction industry;



- 16 -
(b) the CIF cost (Monrovia) of equipment imported for MPW workshops;
(c) 66% of total expenditures under the construction contracts for
upgrading the Monrovia Freeway, representing the estimated
foreign component of this item.
A schedule of cumulative quarterly disbursements from the proposed Loan/Credit
is shown in Table 10.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The project is designed to meet the highest priority requirements
of Liberia's transport sector - better maintenance of the road network, and
improved access to the port of Monrovia and to potentially productive areas
of the country. The need is clear for better maintenance to prevent further
deterioration of roads, a condition which would eventually lead to steadily
rising costs for transport as well as for road maintenance and rehabilitation.
The resultant savings ia, vehicle operating costs will release considerable
amounts of foreign exchange which can then be invested in other segments of
the country's economy. The free competition in the trucking industry (para.
3.05) means that reduction in transport costs can be expected to be passed
on to Liberian producers and consumers. These elements can all combine to
constitute a positive factor in developing the Liberian economy.
B.   Highway Maintenance Program
5.02      The objective of the maintenance program is to eliminate the back-
log of deferred maintenance, and to ensure that, in the future, highways can
be aaintained efficiently and to adequate standards. The improved organiza-
tioin of road maintenance will result primarily in more effective use of man-
power and equipment; technical assistance for reorganization of workshops
and improvement of workshop facilities will reduce the time required for
equipment repairs. The program will yield benefits in: (i) reduction in
vehi.cle operating costs, and avoidance of future increases; (ii) reduction
in t:he cost of regular and periodic road maintenance; and (iii) savings
achieved by delaying investments in reconstruction or upgrading of certain
roads. The latter category of savings is, however, small as compared with
the first two, and has not been quantified. Benefits would begin to accrue
in the first year of the program, and would increase steadily thereafter.
DetaLils on the coverage of the program, and the type and lengthl of the road
system to be maintained, are given in the Annex.
5.03      The maintenance program has been evaluated as a comprehensive pack-
age, irrespective of the source of financing. The analysis compares vehicle
operating costs and road maintenance costs with and without the project, both
expressed as functions of traffic volumes. Roads have been categorized in



- 17 -
terms of surface condition, and present and forecast traffic. Inputs of traf-
fic and growth rates, vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs, and
capital investments, are based on the SAUTI study, modified as necessary by
the findings of the appraisal mission.
5.04      The economic life of the maintenance project has been assumed to be
eight years, which is the weighted average life of the equipment. Since there
is no systematic traffic counting program in Liberia, the traffic volumes and
projections used in the analysis have a narrow data base, and the best estim-
ates for these inputs can possibly show an error of t 20%. The estimation
of vehicle operating costs is also difficult since few vehicle owners keep
good records; the average figures used in the analysis could therefore be in
error by as much as t 10%. Estimates of capital costs of the road maintenance
program include a 20% allowance to cover quantity and price uncertainties.
A sensitivity analysis has been done which takes into consideration the pos-
sible variations in inputs discussed above. The results of this analysis
show that under the worst possible conditions of traffic volumes, operating
costs and capital costs, the maintenance program would yield an economic
return (ER) of 16%, and a benefit/cost (B/C) ratio of 1.1 discounted at 10%
which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Liberia. However, on
the basis of the most likely estimates of inputs, the program yields an ER
of 30% and a B/C ratio of 1.5. A summary of the economic analysis of the
project is shown in the Annex.
C. Upgrading of Monrovia Bypa ss
5.05      The port access road, UN Drive, and the Mesurado River bridge
together carry daily traffic levels of over 20,000 vpd. These vehicles com-
prise large petroleum tankers, trucks which distribute Liberia's imported con-
sumer goods and transport its agricultural export production, and passenger
vehicles which carry businessmen and workers between the capital's commercial
and residential areas and the teeming port of Monrovia.
5.06      To relieve this congestion, the Government in 1965 started con-
struction of the Monrovia Bypass away from the city center. The existing
two-lane road is now badly deteriorated laterite, and is almost impassable
during the six-month rainy season. As a result, traffic which would normally
prefer this shorter route is forced to use Monrovia's streets and other port
access roads, thereby adding to the already high congestion in the city.
Upgrading the Bypass would not only reduce transport costs to traffic normally
using it (about 2,000 vpd), but more importantly, much transit traffic would
be attracted, thus reducing city congestion and its associated costs.
5.07      Benefits derived froml upgrading the existing Bypass would include:
(i) savings in vehicle operating costs to traffic already using the Bypass;
(ii) savings in time and in vehicle operating cost to traffic which would be
diverted from the congested MonLrovia streets to the improved Bypass; and
(iii) savings in time and in operating costs following decongestion on the
other port access roads.



- 18 -
5.08      Inputs of present and future road traffic, vehicle operating costs,
capital investments, and road maintenance costs are based on Stanley Consult-
ants' feasibility studies, modified where necessary by the findings of the
appraisal mission. Passenger time savings in the project are important be-
cause they involve businessmen and vehicle operators whose time has a rela-
tively high economic cost. These savings have however not been quantified
in the analysis due to lack of adequate data. The only uncertain inputs are
the projected traffic growth, where an error of t 20% is quite possible, and
the construction costs, which could show an error of t 10%. A sensitivity
analysis based on the above possible variations shows the ER to be over 20%
for the worst foreseeable combination of inputs. Under the most probable
estimate of inputs, the project yields an ER of 42% and a B/C ratio of 1.9
discounted at 10% per year. The economic life of the investment is assumed to
be 20 years, and the abovementioned ER takes into consideration the paving to
four lanes by 1985 of the western end of the Bypass where traffic is heaviest.
Details of this analysis are shown in the Annex.
D.   Other Project Elements
5.09      The studies under the project include:  (i) detailed engineering
for the access road to the port of Monrovia, the UN Drive, and the Mesurado
River bridge; (ii) sur-vey and detailed engineering for rehabilitation of about
70 mi of paved roads; (iii) detailed engineering for the Totota-Ganta road;
(iv) feasibility studies for the Monrovia-Mount Coffee road; and (v) a study
for promoting the Liberian construction industry.
5.10      The study of the port access road indicated that construction of
the Mesurado River bridge and upgrading the road by the end of 1976 would
yield ERs of 26% and 35% respectively. The highway maintenance study showed
that restoration of about 70 mi of paved roads would yield an ER of 32%. The
consultants Ove Arup are still studying the feasibility of upgrading the Totota-
Ganta road which carries traffic of about 600 vpd, but a preliminary analysis
shows that paving this road would yield an ER of about 40%. There is a prima
facie case for studying the feasibility of upgrading the Monrovia-Mount Coffee
road which carries about 500 vpd, but which is still an unengineered track.
On the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs alone, the preliminary
analysis of this project indicates an ER of over 25%. Details of the econo-
wic analysis for the Totota-Ganta and MIonrovia-Mount Coffee roads are shown
in the Annex. The study of the construction industry will provide the basis
for determining the steps to be taken to increase the capacity and competitive-
ness of local contractors.
6* AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During Loan/Credit negotiations with the Government, the following
priLncipal items were discussed and agreed:
(i) coordination of MPW's highway planning with the country's
overall planning activities (para. 2.11);
(ii) strengthening of the enforcement of vehicle weight regulations
(para. 3.05);



- 19 -
(iii)   formulation by the Government of a program satisfactory to
the Bank/IDA to attract engineers to its civil service in
sufficient numbers (para. 3.07); and
(iv)   provision of funds sufficient to meet increased road main-
tenance expenditures (para. 3.13) and the local capital and
recurrent costs of the project (para. 4.25).
6.02      Signing of the consultants' contracts for technical assistance for
reorganization and detailed engineering of the Monrovia Bypass will be a con-
dition of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit (para. 4.18).
6.03      The project is suitable for Bank/IDA lending to the Government of
Liberia in a total amount of US$5.6 million, consisting of a Loan of US$3.0
million and a Credit of US$2.6 million. An appropriate Loan term would be
25 years with a 5-year period of grace. The Credit would be made on the
usual terms.
May 7, 1973






Table 1
LIBERIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Five-Year Highway Maintenance and DeveloPment Proxram (1973-77)
Expected                       Cost
Source of                   (US$ '000)
Pro.Ject                  Financing              Looal Foreign    Total
A. Maintenance Program
1. Technical Assistance          Bank/IDA                300   1,620      1,920
2. Training Program              Germany                 150   1,150      1,300
3. Equipment and Spare Parts    USAID                    150   3,870      4,020
4. Paved Road Rehabilitation    Bank/IDA                 400   1,600      2,000
(70 mi)
5. Workshops                     Bank/IDA                 50      250       300
Subtotal A                                        1.050   8,490      9,540
B. Prinfr Roads                                (miles)
1. Port access roads and         Bank/IDA      14      2,320   6,180      8,500
bridge
2. Sierra Leone-Liberia         ADB             6        180      730       910
3. Totota-Ganta                  Bank/IDA      15      1,210   4,790      6,000
4. UN Drive-Mt. Coffee           Bank/IDA      16         460   1,580     2,040
5. Tubman Bridge-Bosi Hills      ADB           45        390   1,570      1,960
6. Kakata-Doubli Is.-Totokola   Germany        38        610   2,460      3,070
7. Ganta-Samiquellie          not committed   25         110      440       550
8. Ganta-Tapeta (feasibil-    not oamitted  400           80      320       400
ity study only)
9. Tatuke-Kaloke (feasibil-   not committed   40           20      80       100
ity study and detailed
engineering)
Subtotal B                                         J22  5,380  18.150    23,53o
C. Secondary Roads
1. Sagleipie-Bahn-Sanniquellie  USAID          60        330   1,330      1,660
2. Plibo-Barolayville           USAID          45        350   1,390      1,740
3. Brewerville-Bella Yella       USAID        100        560   1,440      2,000
4. Bella Yella-Zorzor            USAID         65         310   1,010     1,320
5. Buchanan-River Cess           USAID         30        150      470       620
Subtotal C                               300      1,700   5,640      7.34o
TOTAL (A. B and C)                               899       8,130  32,280    40.41
Source: MiniBtry of Planning, November 1972
February 1973



Table 2
LTIBERIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network
(miles)
1961                   1971
A. Public Roads
Primary roads
Asphalt surfacing                 129         160       203
Laterite surfacing                615         650       9W1
Secondary and farm-to-market roads
Laterite surfacing                126         330       48 7
Dry-weather road                  336        610      1 ,270
Subtotal A               1,206      1 750        90
B. Private Roads
Asphalt surfacing                  20          30        86
Laterite surfacing                147         500     1 , 1 r84
Subtotal B                 167        530      1,270
TOTAL                 - 11373       21260    -4171
Sources:    Transportation Survey of Liberia,Brown Engineers, 1963
SAUTI report, 1971
February 1973



Table '3
LIBERIA
SECOND HIGHAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration and Gasoline Consumption, 1961-70
Vehicle Registration (units).                       Gasoline Consumption
(3000 US gal)
Passenger     Taxi-
Year       Cars         cabs   Trucks Buses    Total
1961          _     -          -           -     7,900                9,150
1962          -           -                -     8,500               14,400
i963          -           -        ..      -    9,280                   -
1964          -                -           -     9,500                 8,800
1965          -           -                -    10,000                 8,460
1966        5,762       1,728   2,795   1,447  11,732                10,730
1967        7,268       2,299   3,)483   1,986  15,036                12,111
1968        8,919       3,434   4,543   2,785  19,681                 14,340
1969        9,880       3,853   4,9108   2,995  21,636               17,000
1970        9,377       4,735   5,23 4   3,864  23,210                19,000
Average Annual Growth Rate:                11 35%               10.65%
Note: -   figures not available
Sources:  SAUTI report, 1971
Motor Vehicle Division, Treasury Department, November 1972
February 1973



LIBERIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MNW Bureau of Operations - Personnel
Qualification                            On duty                Required Capacity
(i) Sbaff
Engineers                       8                           10
Shop Superintendents            6                            9
Assistant Shop Super-           21                          21
intendents
General Foremen               112                           96
Subtotal                  10                          1L3
(ii) Sibordinates
Clerical staff                102                          105
Operators                     161                           80
Mechanics                       57                           5
Mechanical Helpers             40                           40
Electricians and Wdelders      19                           24
Drivers                       154                          180
Laborers                      967                        1,050
Carpenters, Plumbers,          20                           -
Painters, etc.
Subtotal                1.520                       124
.TOTAL            1,667
Sources: MNW Annual Report, 1970
SAUTI report, 1971
April 1973.



Table 5
L BERIA
SECaND HIGHWAY PROJECT
MPW Bureau of dpetat iMaitenance Budget
Year                Pereonnel           Operations            TIOTAL
1968                  484                  730                1,214
1969                  494                  880                1e374
1970                  615                  886                1, 501
1971                  875                  689                1,564
1972                  899                  973               1i,872
Sources: MPW Bureau of Operations, November 1972
SAUTI report, 1971
February 1973



Table 6
SECOND HIGIWAI PR04ECT
Technical Assistance Requirements
(man-months
Provided  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77    Total
by
Prograrm Coordinator                UNDP        10       10        10        10       40
Subtotal                                                        40
Highwar Maintenance Program
Program Director
(Supervisor)                   Bank/IDA       3         1         1        2         7
Highway Maint. Engineer
(Project Manager)                            17        11        11       11        So
Mechanical Engineer
(Deputy Project Manager)                     15        11        11        8        45
Master Mechanics                                12       10        12       11        45
Master Mechanics                                1I       11        11       11       44
Highway Technician                              11       11        12       12        46
Highway Technician                               6       11        11       10        38
Administrative Expert                           16        4         6        4        30
Transport Economist/Planner                     8         4         4        4        20
Subtotal:                                                     325
Training Program
Training Adviser                Bank/IDA        3         -        -         -        3
Project Manager                  Germany       10        10        10       10        40
Workshop Specialist (2)                        12        20        20       20        72
Road Maintenance Spec. (2)                     12        20        20       20        72
Theoretical Course Spec. (2)                   10        20        20       20        70
Adminis. Affairs Spec. (1)                      110                10       10        31
Subtotal :                                                    288
TOTAL                                                   653
Source:   SAUTI report, 1971
MiBsion estimates, November 1972
Ar:Ll 1973.



LIBERIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment Needs for Proposed Highway Maintenance Program
(Units)
cEquipment to be Purchased
Scrapped  Total Available  Total Needed              Unit Price   Total CIF Cost
Item                    Existing  by 1974       in 1974           in 1974    Number (market price)    Monrovia
(in US$)
Dump Truck 130 HP)                                         13                52          39         9,000         351,000
Dump Truck 190 HP)                 79         66            -                24          24        12,000         288,000
Grader 125 HP                      23         17            6                27          21        30,000         630,000
Front Loader 80 HP                 17 + 2     15            4                 9           5        20,000         100,000
Hand Compactor (vibrator)          18         18            -                15          15         1,500          22,500
Tractor 60 HP                     17          17            -                11          11         6,500          71,500
Pneumatic Roller 9 Ton (towed)                              -                11          11         5,000          55,000
Tank Truck 2,600 g                 4           4            -                18          18        14,000         252,000
Rotary Broom                                                -                 2           2         2500            5,000
Asphalt Distributor 1,000 g         3           2           1                 2           1        25,000          25,000
Asphalt Finisher 70 HP              1          -            1                 2           1        45,000          45,000
Pneumatic Roller SP 10 Ton                                  -                 2           2        13,000          26,000
Steel Roller (Tandem) 8-10 Ton                              -                 2           2        12,000          24,000
Patching Truck 260 g                                        -                 2           2        14,000          28,000
Stripping Machine                                           -                 2           2         2,500           5,000
Spreader Box                        2          2            -                 3           3         3,000           9,000
Low Bed Trailer (20-25 Ton)                                                   5           5         4,000          20,000
Truck Tractor                                                                 5           5        20,000         100,000
Bulldozer 140 HP                                            -                 7           7        40,000         280,000
Mobile Service Van                  4           4           -                 6           3        30,000          90,000
Mechanic's Truck (4x4) w/Tools                                                 7          7        10,000          70,000
Grease Unit (Trailer Mounted)       3          3            -                 6           6         5,000          30,000
Grease Unit (Trailer Mounted)                                                  7          7        11,000          77,000
Traffic Counters                                                             10          10         1,000          10,000
Radio Equipment (7 fixed, 8 mobile)                                                   lump sum    60,ooo           60,000
2,674,000
Spare parts (10%)                                                                          267 400
2,941,400
Procurement services (5% + $40,000)                                                        190,000
Spare parts for existing equipment ($250,000 parts + $100,000 labor)                       350,000
Shipping and insurance (15%)                                                               486 210
Subtotal                  3T967,610
Contingency (10%)                                                                          396,760
Total                     4,364,370
(Rounded                  $4,400,000)
Source: SAUTI and DPW, November 1972,
USAID, February 1973.
March 1973



LIBERIA                                   Table 8
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates by Project Item
Source of                  Cost (US'OOO)
Foreign Cost                                             Foreign
Financing         Local      Foreign       TOTAL         Component
A.   Program Coordinator for MPW                           UNDP             53          127           180            71%
B.   Highway Maintenance Program
(a) Consulting services for                          Bank/IDA        300       1,750          2,050            85%
reorganization, strengthening
of maintenance operations, and
selection of trainees
(b) Consulting services for                         Germany          300        ,900-1/       2,200            86%
training of MPW staff; construc-
tion of classrooms and dormitories,
including pedagogical equipment
(c) Purchase of highway maintenance                 USAID            350-/    4,300           4,650            92%
equipment, spare parts, radio-commun-
ication sets, and traffic counters,
inzluding contingency allowances
(d) Purchase of workshop equipment                  Bank/IDA          67         300            367           82%
and tools, and improvement of existing
workshops
/2
Subtotal B                                            1,017-    8.250             9.267           89%
C.   Upgrading of the Monrovia Bypass
- Detailed engineering                              Bank/IDA          25          45             70
- Construction                                          ,,           770       1,500          2,270
- Supervision of construction                          ,,             55         105            160
Subtotal C                                               850      1L650           2,500           66%
D.   Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering
- Strengthening of paved roads (70 miles)           Bank/IDA          37         190            227
- Mesurado River Bridge and Improvement
of UN Drive                                          "              65         343            408
- Totota-Ganta Road                                    "              25         250            275
- Mlount Coffee Road                                   "               3          17             20
Subtotal D                                               130         800            930           86%
E.   Study of Construction Industry                       Bank/IDA          15         100            115           87%
F.   Contingencies (on Bank/IDA Participation)
Physical  (about 10%)                                                 75          500           575
Price (about 10%)                                                     75         500            575
Subtotal F                                               150       1,l000        1150             87%
TOTAL  (A through F)                                   ,L25       _11,927       14,142            84%
1/ Of which about US$700,000  equivalent presently authorized by Germany
2/ Of which about US$100,000 equivalent also financed by USAID
Sources: UNDP Project Document
SAUTI Report, 1971
USAID, February 1973
MPW and Mission Estimates
April 1973



Table 9
LIBERIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Expenditures aver the Protect Period
(US$ '000)
1.  CAPITAL COSTS                                                             1973/74                  1974/75                  1975/76                 1976/77                    TOTAL
A. Bask/TDA CostrLbuti-o
- Consolting services for re-rgani-ation,                            500 (100)/                 450 (100)/               450 (100)/             350                        1,750 (300)1
strengthe-ing of maiatenaace speration, and
selection of trainees
imPcrchsea of oksknp eoqipnnot ad tools, end                        50 (20)                   200 (30)                  50 (17)                 -                           300 (67)
inprovenet or esistiog workshops
- Upgrading of the M-onroia Bypass
datailed engineering, connstrction, and                            650 (400)                1,000 (450)                  -                      -                         1,650 (050)
-sporsision of construction
-  eeisbility stndies sod derailed engineering fr: 
- stre-gthening of paved roads (70 miles);                         200 (20)                    90 (17)                   -                                                  3 I90 (37)
- Mesrado liver bridge and inpravenest of ON Drive                 143 (15)                   200 (50)                   -                     -                            343 (65)
- Totota-Gasta Road; and                                            50 (10)                   100 10)                 100 (5)                 -                            250 (25)
- Roost Coffee Road                                                                            17 (3)                    -                     _                             17 (3)
- Study of Constroction ITdostry                                      50 (10)                    50 (5)                    -                      -                           100 (15)
- Contingeacies:
Physical                                                         150 (20)                   200 (25)                  50 (20)               100 (ED)                      500 (73)
Price Voriotion                                                  150 (20)                   200 (25)                 50 (20)                100 (10)                      500 (75)
Total Bsak C-ntribution                              1l843                      2.507                     700                     550                        5._0
0. USAID Contribotion
Porchase of highway  qaintenanco equipnent, spare parts,
radio-communication seat and traffic counters
Including co-ting-ncies
Total USAID Contribution                            3,490 (200)                   890 (50)                 20                                                4,400 (250)
C.  Gernan Contribotion
- Tanso1lto  services tar orainin6 of bPS, ataff;                   475 (73)                   475 (75)                 475 (75)               475 (75)                    1.900 (300)
construoticn of oloasroons end dornitories, inclading               -
pedagogical equipmeat
D.  UNDP Contribstioa
- Progran Coordinator for  15W                                         37 (17)                    30 (12)                  30 (12)                 30 (12)                   127 (53)
E.  Total Government Coatribotionl                                         907                        852                     249                     107                      2.115
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                   .72                      4754                     1474                    1.162                     14,142
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Equipmnot Reanael                                                      170                        180                      220                     300                        870
Adinisitration                                                          930                       960                      990                   1,020                      3,900
Operation                                                              970                      1,200                    1,500                   1,600                      5,270
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                              2j.70                       2,340                    2,710                   2.920                     10,040
TOTAL GOVERNMIENT EXPENDITURES                      2,977                      3,192                    2.959                   3,027                     12,155
-/  Governmot contrihution toward cost of re-pective itens is shown in parentheses.
Sou.rces: SAUTI Report, 1971
MPW and nissios estinstes
April 1973.



Table 10
LIBERIA
SECOND HTGMJAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements-/
TBRD Fiscal Year                         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter __nding                          at end of Quarter
(US$'000)
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                  100
December 31, 1973                                   300
March 31, 1974                                      900
June 30, 1974                                     1,840
1M74/75
September 30, 19714                               2,000
December 31, 1974                                 2,500
March 31, 1975                                    3,500
June 30, 1975                                     4,350
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                4,500
December 31, 1975                                 4,650
March 31, 1976                                    4,800
June 30, 1976                                     5,o50
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                5,200
December 31, 1976                                 5,300
March 31, 1977                                    5,400
June 30, 1977                                     5,600
1/ This schedule is based on the assumption that construction
of the Monrovia Bypass will start by early 1974.  Details
on disbursements for separate items of the project are pro-
vided in Table 9.
Source: Mission estimates, November 1972
May 1973



LIBERIA
SECOND HIGHWAL PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis of Project
I. Highway Maintenance Program
Cost Inputs (US$ million)
Year                              1      2      3       4      5      6       7      8      Total
With Project
A. Capital Costs
1. Bank/IDA/USAID/German    2.14   2.95   1.29   1.O        -      -       -      -       7.43
Contribution *
2. Government Contribution   .68    .72   .19   *04                                       1.63
Subtotal                  2.82   3.67   1.48   1.09  ,  -       -       -      -       9.06
B. Recurrent Costs
1. Equipment Renewal          .17    .18    .22    .30    .30    .30    .30    .30        2.07
2. Administration and
other expenses           1.90   2.16   2.49   2.62   2.62   2.91   3.20   3.50       21.40
Subtotal                  2.07   2.34   2.71   2.92   2.92   3.21   3.50   3.80       23.47
Total (A and B)              4.89   6.01   4.19   4.01   2.92   3.21   3.50   3.80       32.53
* Includes 20% Bank/IDA contributions
for physical and price contengencies.                                                                          H



(US$Million)
Year                              1      2      3      4       5      6      7      8        Total
iithnnt Pro4e^t*               1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20         9.60
.dministrative Costs        3.69   4.81   2.99   2.81   1.72   2.01   2.30   2.60        21.93
Benefit Input=
Network and Traffic
Weighted         Average
Surface Type                 Mileage        Average ADT   Transport Cost
(-per veh/mile)
1. Paved                         203          1150                9.6
2. Good. Laterite               1428           210               16.3
3. Fair   t                      708           210               24.6
4. Poor   -  /earth             1270            65               30.6
Network Condition (Extent of roads by surface type)
Year                         1      2      3      4       5      6      7      8
With Project
Paved Roads                   203    203    203    203    203    203    203    203
Good Laterite                350    429    499    569    632    716    793    882
Fair      "                  775    752    692    634    578    511    425    355
Poor      " /earth           1575   1519   1509   1497   1490   1473   1482   1463
Without Project
Paved Roads                   203    203    203    203    203    203    203    203
Good Laterite                 296    133     47     38      16     10     10     10
Fair     n                    805    630    227    140      93     50     50     50
Poor     "  /earth           1599   1937   2426   2522   2591    2640  2640   2640
*  It is assumed that without the project,DPW annual maintenance expenditures would stay at US$1.20 million, and
that paved roads would be adequately maintained but laterite and earth roads would continue to be inadequately
maintained.
ADT - average daily traffic



Annual Transport C08t8
Assumptions
1. It is assumed that paved roads would continue to be adequately maintained with or without the project.
No reduction in transport costs are therefore obtained on these.
2. Total transport costs are based on consultants' actual link by link analysis rather than on average
traffic for each class of roads.
A. With Project
Year                     1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8
Cost (US$ miUion)
Good Laterite         6.0    8.5   12.9  16.7  18.5  21.8  24.0  24.1
Fair   St             6.8    8.2     7.3    6.1    4.7    2.7    1.0    1.6
Poor   I' /earth  A3.9    1.5    2.6        2.8    2.9    3.1    3.2    3.4
Total   16.7  18.2  22.8  25.2  26.1   27.6  28.2  29.1
B. Without Project
Year                    1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8
Cost (US$ million)
Good Laterite          3.8    2.1    1.5    2.8    1.5    1.2    1.0    1.6
Fair                   8.2    9.2    7.6    8.0    7.8    7.3    7.9    8.6
Poor      " /earth    .2   9.0  16.2  19.2  25.0  31.1  37.4    1.0
Tbtal   17.2  20.3  25.3  30.0  34.3  39.6  46.3  51.2
Savings in Transport
Costa (B - A)         0.5    2.1    2.5    4.8   6.2  12.0  18.1  22.1
Benefit/Cost Ratio (discounted at 10%)  = 1.54
Economic Return - 32% (say 30%)



II. monrovia Bypass (8.2 miles)
CQ8t IU1A35
Actual Cost                        - US$2.50 million in 1974  and  US$5.85 million in 1985 (on West Bypass)
Economic Cost                      - US$1.90 million (about 75%) in 1974 and US$4.40 million in 1985
Period of Construction             - 1 year (end 1973 - end 1974) and 1 year (end 1984 - end 1985)
Benefit Inputs
Traffic (1975)
Normal Traffic    : West Monrovia Bypass (4.3 miles) - 3,100 vpd
East Monrovia Bypass (3.9 miles)   1,700 vpd
Diverted Traffic  : West Monrovia Bypass - 3,500 vpd
East Monrovia Bypass - 2,300 vpd
Traffic C-rowth    : 5% annually
Traffic CoMposition and Savings from Earth to Paved Road
Percent in                             Resulting
Vehicle type       traffic         User savings           savings
(+- pvib     ~      w -(.per rehAui)
Private car         28                2.8                    0.8
Taxi                27                2.8                   0.7
Bus                  6                5.3                   0.41
Pick-up             15                7.6                   1.1
Vans                22               11.2                    2.5                                                :1'
Trucke               2               20.5                   OO 
5.9
First Year Savings: West Bypass = US$284,000
East Bypass = US$143,000
Total    - Us$1427,000



Savings to Diverted Traffic
Distance Savings
Average saving =  0.4 mile per vehicle at 9.3d per vehicle-mile
Savings:          West Bypass - US$47,500 per year
East Bypass - US$31,000 per year
Total Savings in Transport Costs (US$ '000)
Earth to Paved                               427
Diverted Traffic                              78
Total           505
Maintenance Cost Savings
Annual maintenance cost: with project        = 648   +  1.08T
without proJect   - 437   +  4.37T
savings            - 3.29T -  2U
Where T - ADT
B/C Ratio (at 10% discount rate) - 1.9-
Economic Return - 42%
III. Totota-Gonta Road (85 miles)
Coat Inputs (Estimates)
Actual Cost             - US$8.9 minlion
Economic Coat           - US$6.7 million (75%)
Construction Period    - 3 years (beginning 1976 - end 1978)
Cost input distribution:
Year                1        2         3
Amount (US$ million)    2.01      2.68      2.01



Benefit Iupute
Trsffic
ADT (1972)           - 600
ADT (1979)           = 840
Traffic growth       = 5 percent per year
Traffic Composition and Operating Cost Savings (earth to paved)
Vehicle type        Operating cost
and percentage           savinrs           Resultin  savin a
(, per veh/miJ        (t per veh/mi)
Care            60%         5.0                   3.0
Light trucks    30%        20.0                   6.o
Heavy trucks    10%        53.0                   5X3
Average                                       14.3
Annual Maintenance (US$ per mile)
Without project         : 250 + 2.5T
With project            : 350 + 0.6T
Differential maintenance: 100 - l.9T
where T    - ADT
Economic Return over 20-year life   38%
IV.  UN Drive-Vit.Coffee Road (16 miles)
Cost Inputs (Estimates)
Actual Cost             - US$1.8 million
Economic Cost           = US$1.35    "                                                                  miw
Construction Period     - 1 year (1977)



Benefit Inputs
Traffic
ADT (1972)           = 500
ADT (1977)           - 700
Traffic growth       = 5 percent per year
Traffic Composition and Operating Costs
Vehicle type           Operating cost
and percentage             savings              Reaulting savings
( per veh/mi)             (i per veh/mi)
Car              60%         5,0                      3.0
Light trucks     30%        20.0                      6.0
Heavy trucks     10%        53.0                      5-3
Average                                             14.3
Annual Maintenance (US$ per mile)
Without project                : 250 + 2.5T
With project                   : 350 + 0.6T
Differential maintenance       : 100 - 1.9T
where T        - ADT
Economic Retu m - 25% over 20 year life of road
-41






LIBERIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND UTILITIES
DPTY INISTER
OePIJrY MINISICA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ AMIISRA)VSE
L2 L
l5- D I1--1
ECcHNICA/sL SER8VICES                                                                                  BUREAU OF
I                                            I        *          ,               1              ,      ,,                    1        ,       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SItn  VYeI~I EV,,,,q * flfAE H,In.EMbI
PInnn          ~                                                                C 1<<DOn ,VV[Vt' f  EqUS,n,ntf _  F0de  *l
a .VdCOI~Oy    ~        DCCCV      OnV                                                                       A-L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                j____bSL t/  So|  4S   |  [ n A--
SC.f a,,c                                                         P . | O CdVC [I A;0 l H
SB L<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~etCtl                                  an 09W                & Pm d
*   -        ~I      1____
World B..k 7358 12RM






IBRD 10292R
tl-:        :    '- ;,.,-eg
SPA ~      At GtIA           A
L  I BE RI A                                                                                                                \IYI
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                             ItMN8"&at i 
MAIN ROAD NETWORK                                                                                            R t2xeutr
AYIANTBC OEN    4
e~~e~ ~~~ie7~  NC  ~ ~     ~    ~    ---- RAILROADS
2     ;     t G-   PAVED HI1HWAYS
4"  ~  ~     KehrIALL WEATHER ROADS
-                                                                  DR/a S t   r   P pul :huX   'WoloslzsF  X   ._  - Y XEATHN    ROADS
/ C                     E~~~~~NTIRMATIOtEAL Rw
-~~~~~~~~~~~Jx~~~~~~~~~~  AURee
'/'      K.,lahee.  L O FA                                                  H-; HARLORS
:   -5 w t~~-                                               /       Ken,    'I                         . _LASU*S S DV_UNSBflUGG
eeea                                                                                    - n   XINTEPNATlUNAL BLOUNDAR-ES
C   OUNT      V     e MOUN                   -       SYPASSo   TEb  BE, USRAMBD .NtER   PR& '    .'
C UFt e n d e l o  C e em  Ue c o m p   aXa   b  8F -  . . . . . . .  P R E I n lV E S T M E N T  S T U,IE S
<4                                             C    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-      ROADS CONSTRUCTED UND   LOAN 351 L-
'N~~~~  ~ ~       Belle MbeleeeX                 Sala~~~~~~~~~~~~~yie/ (,1          Ykep. 
At  r
Ma,,         GRAND   CAPE                                            6., . Chk GNAND                            Cr -ssl1
U  MOUNT COUN                     KCONT BaID                                                      ECl.-,
8uchonon<., (/ ( , g 'l ""' K ' C, 1,
QXBeedaie eesee ComePekel  -.oBC                Kohn.-
Benderne~~~~~~ Ye&  9eepo IChee                                                    -.                                   ) X 
-- p   Tekees-                           Kale ,                  I
I     /                          Cr-        -     ok T C _     A       .    ;
B   Macb            bX eoo   BONG... -  G                                         0.
Gb...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e  ,o X eB                                       Ph h   
BOTC.  $,,Cboa bMN  / d" G b o
D.o -  /         B'~~~~~ HiY9eaem   en 
Ro     M-   S                  A        O--   eX.        e      . eee                        Cehke        MB 
-Jende   ~ ~ q   -COUNT          *          CONTY                                  Wb    ep      <leo
Celge                                                       Gbenes      Ye2                    OUNTY           /
Roy.,     1_2-
1g                                                                 r -tES
GRAND~B   X                                         ARLN         -    Klb
COUNTY               AND G~~~~EDtEH CO         CUNTTYe
so~~~~~)
N-   LMBBR
MILES~~~S
MILES                             ~ ~~~~~~~~MAY 1973






IBRID 10291R
1 00310 45'                                                                    S I E RR A    G UI N E A          APPIL 1973
0 O 3l0 E 4 s z1                                         t ~~~~~~~~~~~L E e N E  i -      '
l  I B  E  R  I A                                                                                It ,  V   R Y '  - 
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT   -,
MONROVIA                                                                                              C 0AS
Port Access Roads and Mount Coffee Dam Road                                                      _        _ _              _ _ _
1 0'30 30"
,     Bypass to be Upgraded under Project
T Bom, Is                                                                         ........ Preinvestment Studies under Project
<t 1 4< < W / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Roads
w 63O'   < /        /      5z      /     <      5                                     <                                    630'-
bdiow,nhs   m
PA                                        Barnesville                        l l
Free t/aPno t / c                                                                                           tp     d       oeJ
Pointa45*                                                                                                M 3 '30'  W,,dda,,h and itslaffiates



