CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1418 PA
Project Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
Dated May 18, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO (hereinafter called BNF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dol-
lars ($22,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BNF agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B)  part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to BNF on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BNF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part V of the Project
Section 2.01. BNF shall carry out Part V of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial policies and practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. BNF shall relend the funds lent to it by the
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to Beneficiaries
under Sub-loans on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including those set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) BNF shall make Sub-loans on terms whereby
BNF shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank, the Borrower and BNF, including in the
case of any such Sub-loan, the right of BNF to: (i) require the
Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Farm Development Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards, and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to
be financed out of the Subsidiary Loan shall be purchased through
regular commercial channels, at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Farm Development Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Farm Development Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower, or BNF
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary; and (v) suspend or terminate the right of the
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure of such Beneficiary to perform its obLigations under its
contract with BNF;
(b) BNF shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Sub-loan in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Bank, the Borrower and BNF; and (ii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. BNF shall assign an adequate number of its loan
officers to the Project Area, initially not less than 2 to Sub-
project Area A and not less than 6 to Sub-project Area B; all
such loan officers to reside in the Project Area; and the number
thereof to be increased as and when needed for the efficient
carrying out of Part V of the Project; it being estimated that at


﻿-3-
the final stage of execution of the Project, 14 loan officers will
be required for Sub-Project Area B.
Section 2.05. BNF shall: (a) not later than August 31, 1977,
establish an office in the area of Capitgn Meza;
(b)   establish such other offices in the Project Area as
shall be required to carry out Part V of the Project; and
(c) provide such offices with adequate staff and facilities.
Section 2.06. BNF: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Part V of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the funds relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, enable the Bank's
represen,tatives to examine the goods financed out of such funds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning Part V of the Project, the expenditure of the funds so
relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.07. In order to assist BNF in carrying out Part V
of the Project, BNF shall utilize, as and when needed for purposes
of such part of the Project, the services of the farm management
expert referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. BNF shall ensure that Farm Development Projects
are carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Section 2.09. BNF shall make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries who
have received the certificates referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of
the Loan Agreement, provided that any such Beneficiary undertakes
to mortgage his land to BNF to secure the Sub-loan, at the time he
receives the corresponding title to his land.
Section 2.10. BNF shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BNF shall not change or fail to enforce any
provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. (a) BNF shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part V


﻿-4-
of the Project, the performance of its obligations uader this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   BNF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part V of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by BNF of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BNF
Section 3.01. BNF shall conduct its business and operations
in accordance with appropriate financial and administrative
practices and under the supervision of competent and experienced
management.
Section 3.02. BNF shall, not later than December 31, 1977, or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, establish and thereafter
maintain a financial management, programming and budgeting unit.
Section 3.03. BNF shall carry out the Debt Recovery Plan.
Section 3.04. BNF shall take such action as shall be required
to reduce its operating costs so as to obtain that said costs
during 1978 and each year thereafter will not exceed 5.4% of the
average of its outstanding loans during the corresponding year, or
such other ratio as the Bank and BNF may agree in the light of
the recommendations of the studies included in the Technical
Assistance Program and its conclusions. For purposes of this
Section, Technical Assistance Program has the meaning defined in
Section 1.02 (j) of the Loan Agreement (Industrial Credit Project
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated May 18, 1977).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants; Amendment of
First Project Agreement
Section 4.01. BNF shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part V of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, operations and financial condition.


﻿Section 4.02. BNF shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BNF and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNF
shall maintain a liquidity ratio of not less than 1.1:1. As used
in this Section "liquidity ratio" means the ratio of assets
recoverable within twelve months to liabilities to be met within
such twelve months but excluding short term financing from Banco
Central.
Section 4.04. BNF shall take all action required on its part
to increase its authorized capital for purposes of Section 3.09 of
the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.05. Starting on September 1, 1977, BNF shall charge
such rates of interest and other financial charges on its loans
made through its Development and Agriculture and Livestock
Departments as shall be required to obtain an average yield of not
less than 13% per annum on the principal amount of such loans
outstanding from time to time.
Section 4.06. The Project Agreement (Small Farmers' Credit
and Rural Development Project) dated September 6, 1974, between
the Association and BNF (hereinafter called the First Project
Agreement) is hereby amended by the deletion of Sections 3.03
and 4.05 and the replacement thereof by Sections 3.03, 4.03, 4.07
and 4.08 of this Agreement.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BNF
shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as
shall be necessary to maintain at all times its debt/equity ratio
within the limits referred to in Section 4.08 of this Agreement;
and (ii) if the applicable limits shall, for reasons beyond BNF's
control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as


﻿- 6 -
shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such
limit.
Section 4.08. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and BNF, BNF shall not incur any debt if, after the
incurring of such debt, the debt of BNF then incurred and
outstanding would be greater than eight times the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of BNF. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by BNF;
(b)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement,
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c)  whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Guaranies debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by BNF for the purposes of
servicing such debt; and
(d) "unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves"
means the aggregate of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, plus
the unallocated surplus plus free reservas of BNF less such
amounts as shall represent provisions for probable losses on the
outstanding amount of all loans made or guarantees given by BNF,
as shall have been determined by BNF to be adequate to cover such
losses in accordance with sound business and financial practices,
less an amount equal to the amount registered in the account
maintained by BNF pursuant to article 12 of Decree-Law No. 281/61
of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BNF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNF:
Banco Nacional de Fomento
Independencia Nacional y Cerro Cord
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Cable address:                    Telex:
PYTYBO                            138 PY BANFO
Asunci6n


﻿- 8 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BNF may be taken or executed by
the President or such other person or persons as the President
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BNF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BNF, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BNF pursuant to any provision of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written, and the Association, acting through its
duly authorized representative, has evidenced its agreement to the
amendments of the First Project Agreement as provided in Section
4.06 of this Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
By /s/ Alberto Llanes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
1.   Sub-loan Approval
All Sub-loans shall be made with the approval of the Project
Coordinator.
2.   Farm Development Projects
Any Sub-loan shall be made on the basis of a Farm Development
Project.
3.   Agricultural machinery: Tractors
Any Sub-loan to finance a tractor shall be made only to a
farmer capable of operating it and who will commit himself to use
it to cultivate at least 40 hectares per year over a period of not
less than 5 years.
4.   Contribution of Beneficiaries
Each Beneficiary shall contribute at least 10% (in cash or
kind) to the total cost of a Farm Development Project.
5.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
(a)   The amount of a Sub-loan shall not exceed $50,000
equivalent, and the aggregate amount of Sub-loans made to any
one Beneficiary shall not exceed $50,000 equivalent.
(b)   Interest and other charges on Sub-loans shall be such
as to obtain a yield of at least thirteen per cent (13%) per
annum on the outstanding principal.
(c) Sub-loans shall be denominated and shall be repayable in
Guaranies.
(d) The repayment terms shall be within the limits set forth
below:


﻿- lo -
Maximum                Maximum Term
Type of Sub-loan        Grace Period         including grace period
(years)                  (years)
(1) on-farm                  3                       10
investment
(ii) working                                          1
capital


