CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1418 PA
Loan Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 18, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to borrow from Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW), the equivalent in
Deutsche Marks of about $2,600,000 (hereinafter called the KfW
Loan) for relending to Banco Nacional de Fomento (hereinafter
called BNF) to assist in financing Part V of the Project in
Sub-Project Area A;
(C) the Project will be partly carried out by Banco Nacional
de Fomento (hereinafter called BNF) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to BNF part of the proceeds of the Loan and the proceeds of
the KfW Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank. and BNF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however to the following modification thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions), namely, the words "and the Project
Agreement" are added after the words "the Loan Agreement" wherever
they occur in Section 6.06 of the General Conditions.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and BNF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Banco Central" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
(c) "Beneficiary" means an individual farmer of the Project
Area to whom BNF proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(d)   "CNPS" means Consejo Nacional de Progreso Social
established under Decree No. 24879 of the Borrower, dated March 3,
1967;
(e) "Guaranies" means the currency of the Borrower;
(f)   "IBR" means Instituto de Bienestar Rural established
under Law No. 852 of the Borrower, dated March 22, 1963;
(g)   "Farm Development Project" means a development project
consisting of on-farm improvements to be carried out by a
Beneficiary and to be financed in part by means of a Sub-loan;
(h)   "Project Area" means an area located in the southern
part of the Eastern Region of the Borrower and comprises:
Sub-Project Area A: of about 80,000 hectares included
within the settlement colonies known as Unificadas and Federico
ChAvez (except for the area west of the Encarnaci6n-Hohenau
road); and
Sub-Project Area B: of about 235,000 hectares included
within the following limits: ParanA River to the South-east, the
Yacui-Guazfi River to the North, Lhe Manduviyu River to the South
and a straight line drawn from a point on the Manduviyu River at
260 30' of latitude South and 550 30' of longitude West to a
point on the Yacui-Guazd River at 260 10' of latitude South
and 550 of longitude West to the North-west;


﻿-3-
(i)  "Project Coordinator" and "Deputy Project Coordinator"
mean the coordinator and the deputy coordinator referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(j)  "Sub-loan" means a short-term loan for working capital
or a medium- or long-term loan for on-farm investment made or
proposed to be made by BNF to a Beneficiary for a Farm Development
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement, and to be partly financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan or of the KfW Loan;
(k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower, Banco Central and BNF, referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) hereof;
(1)  "MAG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock; and
(m)   "Debt Recovery Plan" means the plan to improve BNF's
debt collection procedures and the quality of BNF's portfolio, set
forth in Resolution No. 25 dated April 5, 1977 of BNF's Board of
Directors.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as t-ie Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly noify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco Central is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts I, II,
III and IV of the Project, and shall cause BNF to carry out Part V
of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative,
economic, financial and engineering policies and practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  The Borrower shall re-lend to BNF the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account under Category (5) of
Schedule 1 hereto, under an agreement on terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such agreement.


﻿-5-
(c)  The Borrower shall cause BNF to perform, in accordance
with the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all
the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
BNF to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts I and II of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants and health advisers, respectively, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  In order to assist MAG and BNF in the carrying out of
Part V of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, by August 31,
1977, to work under the Project Coordinator, a farm management
expert whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause CNPS to: (i) coordinate and supervise the carrying
out of the Project; (ii) ensure close cooperation between all
interested institutions and agencies of the Borrower and BNF orn
all matters related to the Project; and (iii) furnish to the
National Economic Council the annual programs for carrying out the
Project, and reports on the progress of the Project; and
(b) cause each of the institutions and agencies referred to
in (a) (ii) above, to assign one of its officers to program with
the Project Coordinator the activities of its institution or
agency in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.04. In order to assist CNPS in fulfilling the
tasks referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall employ a Project Coordinator and a Deputy Project
Coordinator acceptable to the Bank with such authority and
responsibilities as are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
the Deputy Project Coordinator to be appointed not later than
August 31, 1977 or such later date as the Bank shall agree.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. In carrying out the Project the Borrower
shall, as and when needed, assign, or cause to be assigned: (a)
2 extension agents of MAG to Sub-Project Area A, and (b) 14
extension agents of MAG and 14 land tenure specialists of IBR to
Sub-Project Area B.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall (a) ensure that the Deputy
Project Coordinator and the technicians referred to in Section
3.05 (b) of this Agreement reside in the Project Area; and (b)
provide them with the necessary supporting administrative staff.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall open and maintain with Banco Central an account
into which it shall deposit the proceeds of the Loan and of the
KfW Loan, and all service payments under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and from which it shall withdraw all amounts to be lent
to BNF for Part V of the Project, and the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn to finance the remainder of the Project; including
separate records regarding said deposits and withdrawals in
respect of Part V of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)  cause Banco Central to rediscount or otherwise finance
out of the proceeds of the Project Account 62% of the Sub-loans
made by BNF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including the following:
(i) the rediscounting rate shall be seven per cent
(7%) per annum; and
(ii) BNF shall repay to Banco Central the proceeds
of the Project Account so lent to BNF, over
a period of 17 years, including a grace
period of 3-1/2 years;
(b)  cause Banco Central and BNF to use all funds accruing
from the carrying out of Part V of the Project exclusively to
finance on-farm investments and working capital in the Project
Area on the terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall contribute one billion three
hundred million Guaranies to BNF's capital. For this purpose, the
Borrower shall: (i) issue bonds with such aggregate amount, to


﻿-7-
mature after 25 years and bear interest at the rate of 2% per
year; (ii) cause Banco Central to subscribe such issue entirely;
(iii) cause such bonds to be repaid out of the net profits of
Banco Central, in accordance with Article 103 (c) of Decree-Law
281/61 of the Borrower, after meeting Banco Central's capital and
current expenditures budget, and in such ratio as its Board of
Directors shall determine annually; (iv) enter into an agreement
with Banco Central and BNF, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, which shall provide, inter alia, the utilization by
BNF of such funds; and (v) take and cause to be taken all measures
required regarding the increase of BNF's authorized capital
referred to in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause IBR to:
(a)   issue land titles to farmers in the Project Area in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; such land
titles to be issued to not less than 440 farmers of Sub-Project
Area B by November 30, 1977;
(b)   give to any farmer who has paid 10% of the purchase
price of his land a certificate whereby IBR guarantees to issue to
such farmer title to such land within not more than six months
from the date such payment was made; and
(c)   agree to the Beneficiaries undertaking the obligation
referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause CNPS to establish,
in consultation with the Bank, not later tnan January 1, 1978
and thereafter operate, a monitoring system for collecting data
for measuring the physical, financial, economic and social impact
of the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and procurement schedules for Parts I, II, III
and IV of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Parts I, II, III and IV of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, other than
those proceeds relent to BNF for purposes of Part V of the
Project, and to disclose the use thereof in said Parts I, II, III
and IV of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
obtain the KfW Loan.
Se ction 3.16. The Borrower shall cause the Farm Development
Projects to be designed with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, including: (i) maintenance of adequate wood
areas in each lot, and (ii) maintenance of forest areas on
waterfronts and sloping land, as required to control erosion.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,


﻿- 9 -
in normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign -2xchange, such
lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and
at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as gecurity for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c)  As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part there .


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning such accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times employ,
or cause to be employed, qualified staff in adequate numbers to
operate the institutions included in the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall adequately maintain or cause to
be maintained the roads, buildings, furniture and equipment
included in the Project and make or cause to be made all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with sound engineering,
technical and administrative practices.
(c)   The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) BNF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BNF will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of BNF or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿- 11 -
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the KfW Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) The KfW Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and BNF; and
(b)  Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) (i) B of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional condiLions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BNF has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and
celivered;
(c) BNF has adopted a manual for debt collection
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the procedures
established in the Debt Recovery Plan, and the measures
required to carry out such plan are being taken; and
(d) BNF has received and utilized the funds referred to in
Section 3.09 hereof pursuant to the agreement therein provided
for.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BNF, and is legally binding upon BNF in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement: (i) has been duly
executed and authorized by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and (ii) constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the respective parties thereto in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of September 20, 1977, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Asunci6n,
Paraguay


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By Is/ Mario Lopez Escobar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   8,000,000       66%
(2) Vehicles and equip-           2,100,000       100% of foreign
ment                                          expenditures
(3) Consulting services             700,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Training and Proj-            1,200,000       66%
ect administration
(5) Sub-loans to Bene-           5,100,000        47% of amounts
ficiaries in Sub-                            disbursed
Project Area B
(6) Unallocated                  4,900,000
TOTAL       22,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.    For the purposes of this -chedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of a country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.     The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   not more than the equivalent of $1,730,000 shall be
withdrawn under Category (5) in respect of Sub-loans to
Beneficiaries who own more than 20 hectares, of which not more
than the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be withdrawn in respect of
sub-loans to Beneficiaries who own more than 50 hectares.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Catez.agory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate- to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if suah reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 16 -
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will provide roads, social infrastructure,
technical assistance and credit facilities to farmers in the
Project Area, and consist of the following Parts:
Sub-Project Area B:
Part I:
Construction of about 100 kilometers of all-weather roads and
about 238 kilometers of earth roads, including bridges and
culverts for such roads.
Part II:
1.    Construction, furnishing and equipping of eight health
posts and two health centers.
2.   Upgrading of two health centers.
3.   Training of health field technicians to staff the above-
mentioned posts and centers.
Part III:
Construction, furnishing and equipping of two community
centers.
Part IV:
Acquisition and utilization of about 39 vehicles.
Sub-Project Area A and Sub-Project Area B:
Part V:
Sub-loans to Beneficiaries to finance Farm Development
Projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1981
through   January 1, 1994                     815,000
On July 1, 1994                                     810,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                       5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                       7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             8.20%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B and C hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
General Introduction and in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Construction of, and furniture and equipment for, the health
and community facilities shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding locally advertised or other procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Farm inputs shall be procured by the Beneficiaries through
regular commercial channels.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for the earth roads included in Part I of the
Project may be carried out on force account, provided, however,
that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that it has the technical capability required for this
purpose.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, vehicles or
equipment:


﻿- 21 -
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before -it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Coordinator and
Deputy Project Coordinator
1.   Project Coordinator
The main functions of the Project Coordinator will be to:
(a)   prepare outlines for the annual programs for carrying
out the Project and direct the agencies participating in the
execution of the Project to prepare such programs;
(b)  furnish such programs to CNPS for approval and to the
Bank for information;
(c)   monitor the subsequent execution of the approved
programs;
(d) ensure that BNF,IBR and the Ministerios de Agricultura y
Ganaderia, Salud PGblica y Bienestar Social, and Obras Pfiblicas
y Comunicaciones, make a separate and identifiable financial
allocation in their annual expenditure budgets to cover the total
cost of their respective contributions in each year to Project
execution, including operational and maintenance costs;
(e) coordinate the carrying out of Section 4.02 of the Loan
Agreement and Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(f) inform CNPS and the Bank on (d) hereof;
(g) countersign all expenditures eligible for reimbursement
out of the Loan;
(h)  prepare quarterly progress reports for the information
of CNPS and the Bank;
(i)  act as the channel of communication with the Bank; and
(j) supervise the Deputy Project Coordinator.


﻿- 23 -
2.   Deputy Project Coordinator
The main functions of the Deputy Project Coordinator will be
to
(a) ensure coordination among participating agencies at the
field level, including supervision of all activities at the
two new community centers;
(b)   assist the Project Coordinator in liaising with the
field staff of participating agencies;
(c) assist the Project Coordinator in the preparation of the
quarterly progress reports referred to in 1 (h) above; and
(d)  carry out such functions as will be delegated to him by
the Project Coordinator.


