Dacumst of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CF. 1'23  A
Report No. P-4134-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 5.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
KENYA INDllSTRIAL ESTATES
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
September 24, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Iu contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -       Kenya Shilling (KSh)
USSI.00             -       KSh 16.5 1/
KSh 1.00            -       USSO.06
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK    -  Central Bank of Kenya
DFCK   -  Development Finance Company of Kenya
EADB   -  East African Development ;ank
ICDC   -  Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
LDB    -  Industrial Development Bank
IPA    -  Industrial Promotion Area
KCB    -  Kenya Commercial Bank
KCFC   -  Kenya Commercial Finance Company
KFW    -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KIE    -  Keuiya Industrial Estates
KITE   -  Kenya Industrial Training Instituite
KTDC   -  Kenya Tourist Development Corporation
NBFI   -  Non-'dank Financial Institution
NORAD  -  Norwegian Agency for International Development
RIDC   -  Rural Industrial Development Center
SEFCO  -  Small Enterprise Finance Company
TSC    -  Technical Service Center
FISCAL YEAR
Julv 1 - June 30
1/ Average rate during 1985. This is the rate that has been used in
evaluating this project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
KIE SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Kenya
Beneficiary:           Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE)
Amount:                A Credit of SDR 5.8 million (US$6.0 million
equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard
Relending
Terms:                 The Government of Kenya would onlend the proceeds of
the credit component (US$5.0 million) to KIE at a
fixed rate of interest of 6.0% p.a. and a fixed
amortization schedule for 15 years, including three
years of grace. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. KIE would relend the funds
to its borrowers at interest rates of between 14Z
and 15% p.a. (including a 1.0% p.a. supervision
fee). Govermnent would make available the technical
assistance component of US$1.0 million to KIE as a
grant.
Project Description:  The project would support the Government's program
of providing financial assistance, training and
management counselling through KIE to small-scale
industries (SSIs) and would make KIE a more
efficient channel for implementing this program.
The IDA credit would involve (i) a US$5 million line
of credit to KIE for on-lending to an estimated 200
SSIs; and (ii) a technical assistance component of
USS1 million to include (a) USS0.9 million to
finance two advisors in supervision and entrepreneur
training as well as continued funding of the Finance
Manager position; and (b) US$0.1 million for
entrepreneur training development and a survey to
identify opportunities for SSIs to provide
intermediate inputs to medium and large-scale
industry.
Benefits
and Risks:             The project would support Government objectives to
provide more effective assistance to small-scale
industrialists by increasing the supply of credit to
them. Through its technical assistance, the project
would also consolidate recent gains in KIE's
performance and enhance its ability to provide
assistance to SSIs. The credit and the sponsors'
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
contributions together would also help provide
employment opportunities for about 1,500 workers at
an average cost per job of US$5,000, develop new
Kenyan entrepreneurs, and make consumer goods based
on domestic materials available to lower income
groups at the local level. The major project risk
is that KIE may not continue its recent rapid pro-
gress toward becoming a more effective, financially
self-sufficient institution capable of preparing
better projects, providing valuable technical assis-
tance and training to its clients while collecting
debts in a timely and effective manner. This risk
is reduced, however, through a number of safeguards,
some already contained in KIE's policies and
guidelines, and some to be added in the context of
this credit. Moreover, Bank staff will continue to
work closely with KIE to build on the momentum of
KIE's recent achievements and ensure further
progress.  Finally, Government's commitment to KIE's
program to become a sound institution provides
assurance that pressures for non-economic decisions
will be reduced.
Estimated Cost:                        Local        Foreign         Total
-===---(USS million)-----
Credit Component                       6.6          8.5            15.1
Technical Assistance Component          .1          1.4             1.5
Total Project Cost                   6.7          9.9            16.6
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                              -           6.0            6.0
NORAD and KFW                           -           3.9            3.9
Government Loans                       0.8           -             0.8
KIE self-generated funds               5.9           -             5.9
Total                                6.7          9.9            16.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY     1987   19B8   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995
~-----  ----- --(US$   ilo)---------
Annual       0.3    1.0    1.1    0.9    0.9    0.6    0.5       0.4     0.3
Cumulative   0.3    1.3    2.4    3.3    4.2    4.8    5.3      5.7      6.0
Commitment Date:  December 31, 1989.
Rate of Return: n/a
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5773-KE, dated August 28, 1986.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 5.8 million (US$6.0 million
equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a small-scale industry
project. The Government would on-lend US$5.0 million of the credit to the
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) at 6.0% interest for 15 years including a
three-year grace period, and pass on US$1.0 million to KIE as a grant for
technical assistance. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 6021-KE) dated March
24, 1986, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Trends in the 1960s ard 1970s
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Kenya's first decade
as an independent nation was one of remarkable growth and structural
transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6Z during
1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at 4.7X and 8.4%
per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was stimulated by the
conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive use to small-
holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production activities,
and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieties. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Goverrment promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
4.        Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 4%
p.a., or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the
oil shock, but also the emergence or intensification of structural cons-
traints largely unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration.
These problems are briefly described below.
(a)   First, agricultural growth decelerated, due partly to the
tapering off of the specific positive factors which had
sustained agricultural growth in the first decade after
independence and partly to Government policies, including
trade and exchange rate policies which turned the internal
terms of trade against the agricultural sector, and
inefficient, monopolistic Government involvement in



-2-
agricultural marketing which discouraged production and
placed undue burdens on the budget.
Cb)   Second, industrial growth also decelerated, and was being
accomplished at an increasingly higher cost in terms of the
capital-intensity of investment, low labor absorption, and
the burden on the balance of payments of a sector which
imported a substantial volume of intermediate goods for
'final touch- processing and assembly, but exported very
little. These undesirable features resulted from Government
policies which included high and increasing levels of
protection, and inadequately selective Government financial
participation in industrial firms.
(c)   Third, energy supplies became relatively more expensive, due
to increases in world oil prices, and imbalances between
consumption and replenishment of domestic woodfuel.
(d)   Fourth, the public sector over expanded and was inadequately
managed.
(e)   Fifth, export volume grew by less than 12 annually, and
exports became more concentrated on coffee, tea, and
petroleum products.
(f)   Sixth, population growth accelerated to one of the highest
rates in the world, reflecting a decline in mortality, and
health improvements enabling fertility to move closer to its
biological limit.
Developments During 1980-85
5.        The Fourth and Fifth Plans.  The above structural issues were
generally well recognized in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-83) and the
Fifth Development Plan (1984-88), which have provided broad guidance to the
Government's economic policies during the first half of the 1980s. The
Fourth Plan stated that quantitative import restrictions (QRs) for purposes
of industrial protection would be discontinued, and that restrictions on
private sector agricultural marketing activity would be relaxed. It
projected GDP growth of 6.3% annually. The Fifth Plan declares that
Growth in the private sector is the core of the development process in
Kenya," and proposes to provide a more favorable environment for private
sector activity by lowering the claim of Government expenditure on
available resources; curtailing or in some cases eliminating Government
investment in non-essential activities; and reviewing Government procedures
for obtaining various approvals and licenses to determine whether any can
be eliminated or simplified. GDP growth is projected to be 4.9% annually.
6.        Macroeconomic Developments.  Actual developments in the Kenyan
economy during the first half of the 1980s have been less favorable than
projected in the Fourth and Fifth Plans. Because of the second oil crisis,
the deterioration in the external terms of trade was sharper than had been
projected in the Fourth Plan; additionally, in the wake of the 'coffee
boom- of the late 1970s there had been an erosion of fiscal discipline. As



-3-
a result, at the beginning of the decade, the Kenyan economy was
characterized by large domestic and external financial imbalances.
7.        In the period since 1980, the Government's intention has been to
reduce the excess of domestic demand over domestic supply through demand
management measures, while simultaneously accelerating the growth of
domestic supply through the program of structural reform inaugurated in the
Fourth Plan. The Government has restrained domestic demand by lowering its
budget deficit, primarily by reducing the level of expenditure;
decelerating monetary growth; raising interest rates so that they become
positive in real terms; and permitting real wages to fall, beginning in
1982. In 1981, the Government began to use exchange rate policy to bring
about adjustment and, in addition, in 1982 import restrictions were
intensified. As discussed in paras. 10-20 below, progress in addressing
long-term structural issues has been slower and less complete than in the
area of demarLd management, but has included significant steps in the right
direction.
8.        Reflecting the successful implementation of demand management,
the current account deficit decreased from its peak of 12% of GDP to 4% of
GDP during 1984-85, and inflation decreased from a peak of 22% to 10% in
1985.  The two best indicators of successful supply-side adjustment would
have been an improvement in the efficiency of investment and an
acceleration of export growth. Neither of these has happened yet (with
export volume actually declining), reflecting lags in the impact of
measures taken to date, and the need for further measures. Real GDP gew by
3% annually during the period 1980-85, which included one year of unusually
severe drought (1984). During this period of time, Kenya's external terms
of trade deteriorated, and therefore its real income grew more slowly than
its real product. From 1980 to 1985, real product per capita fell by 5%,
but real income per capita fell by 10%. Because of the combination of
rising debt service payments and generally lower export receipts, the debt
service ratio rose sharply from 13% in 1980 to 30% in 1985.
9.        Agricultural Sector.  Agricultural growth in the eighties was
affected by poor rainfall in 1979-80 and a serious drought in 1984, but
recovered in 1985. Value added grew at about 3% p.a.; somewhat lower than
in the late seventies. Growth in the last ten years-about 3.5% pa.,--has
been higher than in most developing countries, but somewhat below the rate
of growth of population. While production of traditional export crops has
performed impressively, production of domestic crops has stagnated or
declined, requiring growing imports of wheat, edible oils and milk. Except
for horticultural exports, minor agricultural exports (i.e., those other
than coffee and tea) have stagnated.
10.       Two areas in which recent policies and programs have been
importantly supportive of increased agricultural production are producer
prices and agricultural extension. Within the present framework of
substantial parastatal involvement in marketing, producer prices for the
major import-competing crops have been substantially increased, and for the
grain crops--maize and wheat--brought closer to import parity. Second, the
Training and Visit extension system has been implemented since 1982 to
increase yields on small holdings which produce 90% of output.  However, in
other areas, government policies need to be improved in order to reinforce



-4-
the effectiveness of producer price policies and extension programs in
encouraging agricultural production. These areas are: (a) excessive
government involvement in marketing (and, in some cases, production)
contributing to parastatal deficits and price controls and marketing
restrictions that reduce incentives to smallholders; (b) availability of
farm inputs, particularly fertilizer; (c) the adequacy and focus of the
research effort; and (d) poorly performing public credit institutions which
have drained public resources and contribute little to private capital
formation. Further, because of the large budgetary claims made by
marketing (and other) parastatals and staff, Government development
spending in agriculture (including agricultural services and research) has
fallen in real terms. The Government has recently begun to implement a
medium-term sector adjustment program to address these issues.
11.       The Industrial Sector.  Value added in the manufacturing sector
grew by 3.7% p.a. during the period 1980-84. Since the volume of
manufactured exports declined, the growth was entirely attributable to
production for the domestic market.
12.       Implementation of the Government's program for reforming the
protective system has lagged behine rthe schedule originally envisaged.  Due
to inadequate coordination of exchange rate, demand management, and trade
policies, a foreign exchange shortage developed in 1982, following which
the Government re-restricted some of the import items which has been
liberalized. Progress has recently resumed. The June 1985 budget
contained the first increase in several years in the number of items on the
free list, and there has been an increase in foreign exchange
authorizations for imports. The June 1984 and June 1985 budgets also
included lowering of many tariffs. Because the protective system remained
largely in place during 1.980-84, its consequences of inward-looking bias
and encouragement of inefficient use of capital in the manufacturing sector
persisted.
13.       Aside from exchange rate depreciation, relatively little was done
to promote exports until the June 1985 budget, when an increase in the rate
of export compensation (a fiscal incentive for selected nontraditional
exports) to 20% (of export value) was announced. During 1980-84, the
volume of Kenya's manufactured exports declined by 38%, to a level of only
4.5% of gross output. The low level of manufactured exports is
attributable to the incentive structure which has remained biased against
exports, while the decline seems to be attributable to foreign exchange
problems in neighboring African countries.
14.       Energy Sector.  Energy consumption in the Kenyan economy
increased by 3% annually during 1980-84. Fuelwood consumption is estimated
to have increased by 4% annually and charcoal consumption by 6% annually
while  oodern sector  energy consumption (i.e., petroleum products,
electricity, and coal) decreased during 1980-83, reflecting adjustment to
higher energy prices, before beginning to recover in 1984. Enezgy pricing
policies have provided an appropriate incentive for conservation.
Dependence on imported petroleum has been reduced somewhat by development
of domestic geothermal and hydroelectric resources, and by a very limited
amount of conversion of coal.



-5-
15.       The Public Sector.  The Central Government budget deficit went
down from 9X of GDP in FY81 to 4X of GDP in recent years, despite a
significant decline in the ratio of revenue to GDP, because of sharp
reductions in expenditure and an increase in grants from abroad. The ratio
of government revenue to GDP decreased from 252 in FY81 to 22% in FY85.
The decline in revenue is due to decreased collection of import duties,
arising primarily from contraction of import volume and secondarily from
lowering of tariff rates.
16.       The ratio of government expenditure to GDP has decreased sharply
from 35% in FY81 to 29% in FY85. Among expenditure categories, interest
payments increased and personnel expenditure was relatively protected,
while non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure, fixed capital
formation expenditure, and transfers to parastatals are the three
categories which were reduced. The problem of inadequate non-wage
operating and maintenance expenditure, which has existed since the late
1970s, has thus been exacerbated. At the same time, because lower levels
of capital expenditure have been spread out over a large number of ongoing
projects, not all of which have been of equally high priority, completion
dates for many projects have been postponed.
17.       The Government has begun to address these expenditure issues
through its Budget Rationalization Program (BRP), initiated in 1985. The
objective of the program is to increase the productivity of Government
investment, by concentrating capital expenditures on a smaller number of
priority projects and by providing adequate resources for operation and
maintenance of the existing Government capital stock. In order to
implement the budget rationalization concept, ministries are now required
to prepare policy statements on recurrent and development expenditure
priorities, and to rank projects in their portfolio according to priority
criteria. Additionally, the Government intends to develop norms and
standards for capacity utilization, and to achieve greater collections of
user charges, as part of the program.
18.       The Government's intention has been to implement a two-pronged
strategy to address parastatal issues, consisting of divestiture of some
investments to the private sector, and strengthening the performance of
those parastatals which remain in the public sector. A Task Force on
Divestiture was established in 1983. So far, divestitures have been few
and of a small scale. In a significant move, the Government recently
decided to divest the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) of its
processing and marketing activities. The Government has checked the
further expansion, through utilization of budgetary funds, of the
parastatal sector. However, during FY83 and FY84, the parastatals
responded to the decrease in budgetary transfers by increasing their
utilization of banking system credit. It is difficult to assess, due to
lack of readily available and consistent data, what progress there has been
in improving the economic efficiency and financial performance of the
sector.
19.       Population.  Kenya's population growth rate, currently 3.9% per
annum, is the highest in the world. Fertility has begun to decline in
Kenya, but at a slow rate, from an extremely high level. The total
fertility rate has declined from a peak of 8.1 in 1977 to 7.7 in 198A. At



-6-
the present time, Kenya is one of the only three countries in the world
with a total fertilitv rate greater than 7.0. The recent rate of fertility
decline of 0.7% per annum is well below the declines of 2% per annum or
more achieved by countries with vigorous population programs. The
Government has recently intensified its commitment to addressing the
problem of rapid population growth. The National Council on Population and
Development (NCPD) has adopted a target of slowing population growth to
3.3% p.a. by 1988, the end of the Fifth Plan period, which would represent
a dramatic acceleration in the rate of fertility decline.  However, an
adequate program to meet this objective has not yet been defined. In order
to achieve or move closer to the demographic objective, an expansion of
both demand-promoting education activitiLes and service delivery will be
needed.
Prospects for the Kenyan Economy
20.       Growth Prospects.  Because of higher coffee prices and lower oil
prices, Kenya's external terms of trade are expected to improve by 21% in
1986-87, as compared with 1985. There will be substantial increases in
export receipts, national income, and government revenue. GDP growth
should approach 5% annually in 1986-87. In order to maintain the economy
on a stable path, the Government intends to apply some of the exceptional
coffee revenues to reducing the Government budget deficit in FY87, and to
generally manage domestic demand in such a way as to permit an accumulation
of international reserves in 1986-87, in order to provide a cushion for the
eventual return of coffee prices to more normal levels. Depending on the
pace of implementation of policy measures to improve the efficiency of
investment, expand exports, and mobilize domestic resources, after 1987
growth could either be sustained at about 5% p.a., or else could lapse back
to 3.5% p.a.
21.       The Sessional Paper.  In early 1986 the Government published its
Sessional Paper on Economic Management for Renewed Growth. With the
drought emergency over and with the economy successfully stabilized, the
objective of the Sessional Paper is to provide a framework for Kenyan
development for the remainder of this century. The Paper emphasizes that,
in order to provide productive employment for a labor force which is
expected to increase by 86% between 1985 and by year 2000, an acceleration
of output growth is needed. GDP growth is targeted to be 5.6% annually.
The Paper targets coffee production to triple, and tea production to more
than double, by the year 2000, arising from replanting with higher-yielding
varieties and area expansion. In the area of trade and industry, more
uniform import tariffs and more liberal import licensing are expected to
promote greater efficiency in the manufacturing sector, and encourage
exporting. The exchange rate will be managed in such a way as to establish
Kenya's competitiveness in world markets.
22.       The Paper devotes considerable attention to rural-urban balance,
with an emphasis on town and secondary city development in order to avoid
concentration of urban population growth in Nairobi and Mombasa. The local
authorities are to be strengthened, and the District Development Committees
are to play an increasing role in planning rural development. The fiscal
chapter of the paper incorporates the budget rationalization program
(para. 17 above). The Paper states that the private sector must play the



dominant role in revitalizing Kenya's economy, and that the Government will
establish market-based incentives and regulatory structures to channel
private sector activity in desirable directions, while relying less on
instruments of direct control.
23.       External Capital Requirements and Debt Servicing.  The Fifth Plan
provides for current account deficits (net external borrowing) averaging 4Z
of GDP over the Plan period. This is an appropriate and sustainable level,
taking into account the concessionality of Kenya's capital inflow, and
assuming that export growth can be accelerated as intended. Due to the
increase in coffee export receipts in 1986-87, it is expected that the
current account deficits during 1986-87 will be lower than usual - about 3%
of GDP. During 1986-87, it is expected that gross loan disbursements from
official sources will be about $450 million annually, while gross loan
disbursements from private sources (chiefly suppliers' credits) will be
about $100 million annually. In addition, Kenya receives grant aid of
about $130 million annually. The debt service ratio is expected to drop
sharply from 30% in 1985 to 24% in 1986, reflecting higher coffee receipts,
and then decrease gradually to 19% in 1990.
24.       IMF Relations with Kenya.  Kenya's stabilization efforts have
been supported by a series of IMF programs. The two most recent programs
were successfully completed, with all planned purchases actually made. At
the present time, Kenya does not have a balance of payments need to qualify
it for drawing on ordinary IMF resources. The Government's planned demand
management stance for 1986-87 (para. 21) is consistent with IMF staff views
on appropriate economic policies under current circumstances.  Kenya is
expected to draw upon the recently established IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility, beginning in 1987.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
25.       To date, Kenya has received 45 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, 46 IDA credits, one Special Fund Credit, and one
African Facility Credit, amounting to US$1,995.3 millior, in support of 81
operations. In addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling US$245 million which were extended for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three partner states of the former East African
Community (EAC). As of March 31, 1986, IFC had committed a total of
US$66.3million for 15 operations in Kenya. Annex II contains a summary
statements of Bank and IFC loans, as well as IDA credits to Kenya.
26.       Since 1980, Bank Group lending has been oriented towards
assisting the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy,
resulting in the inclusion of structural adjustment lending. SAL I
supported policy reform, institutional development, and studies in the
areas of trade and industry, public expenditure planning, and external debt
management. SAL II supported continuation of the structural adjustment
program to the additional areas of agt_eulture, energy, and population.
Government implementation of SAL I and especially SAL II was relatively
weak, reflecting divided or inadequate commitment, administrative



-8-
weaknesses, inadequate preparation of some program components, and
diversion of Government attention toward urgent short-term problems,
including the exceptionally severe drought of 1984. The drought
contributed significantly to distracting the focus of reform in the
agricultural sector. In particular institutions like the National Cereals
and Produce Board (NCPB) which has been earmarked for reform were unable to
proceed on account of changed priorities.
27.       In view of the difficulties that had been experienced with the
comprehensive SAL approach, in 1984 the Bank and the Government agreed that
Bank financial support for the Governaent's structural adjustment efforts
would be more narrowly focussed on sector adjustment loans. The recently
approved agricultural sector operation is the first of such loans. In the
future, it is envisaged that industrial restructuring, trade policy, and
budget rationalization may be supported by quick-disbursing lending.
Drawing upon the lessons of the SAL experience, greater attention has been
paid to consensus building through more active Government participation in
program preparation. This we believe, has allowed for a more realistic
assessment of the scope and pace of required policy reforms and
institutional development processes. It is our view that this approach
will result in more rapid policy reform than would occur without the Bank's
involvement.
28.       Projects for financing and their design have been selected with a
view to consolidating or complementing policy actions under the structural
adjustment program. While continuing priority has been given to
agricultural and development finance projects, increasing attention has
been given to infrastructure projects. Thus, in FY84, the Kiambere
Hydroelectric Power Project, the Second Highway Sector Project and a
Geothermal Exploration Project were approved. In FY85, a Nairobi Third
Water Supply Engineering Project and a Third Telecommunications Project
were approved. The Sixth Education Project, Petroleum Exploration
Technical Assistance Project, Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation, and
the Agricultural Sector Management Project were approved in FY86.
29.       Project implementation deteriorated in the 1980s, in contrast to
the successful implementation performance in the past. However, recent
efforts by the Government and the Bank have begun to reverse this trend.
Factors accounting for implementatien delays have varied widely, but some
of the more pervasive factors have been institutional/management
constraints, procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a
lack of local financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing
and submitting reimbursement claims, have led to Kenya's poor project
disbursement record. An in-depth review of the causes of this situation
has been undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible
solutions have been discussed with the Government at Country Implementation
Review (CIR) meetings. During these discussions, the Government and the
Bank are continuing to review the Government's development objectives,
project portpolio and investment priorities in the context of
implementation capacity and resource constraints. Recent improvements in
budgetary and financial management in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development which are to be introduced gradually to other
ministries, are reaping benefits.



-9-
30.       At the end of 1984, IBRD held 25Z, and JBED/IDA combined held 39%
of Kenya's stock of external debt. During 1984, IBRD's share of Kenya's
debt service payments was 22%, and IBRD/IDA's share gas 23Z.  These ratios
are expected to remain stable over the medium-termi future.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
31.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC has committed a total of US$66.3
million for fifteen operations in Kenya. These include loans for ten
companies: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
'Tourism Promotion Services (Kemya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.;
Bamburi Portland Cement Company, Ltd; Tetra Pak Converters, Ltd; Leather
Industries of Kenya, Ltd; Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd; Madhu
Paper International, Ltd.; and Oil Crop Development, Ltd.   Also iacluded
are a US$2.0tmillion credit line to the Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd., a
US$5.0 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Finance Company, Ltd., a
US$3.7 million credit line to the Equatorial Beach Properties, and equity
investments in (US$1.3 mill-ion), DiaLnd Trust of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.8
milion), and Industrial Promotion Services of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.6
million).  As of March 31, 1986,  tFC held for its own account US$57.1
million, comprising US$44.0 million of loans and US$13.1 million of
equity. A summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
The Manuf act uring Sector
32.       The performance of Kenya's manufacturing sector has mirrored
trends in the economy.  The sector grew at average annual rates of 11%
between 1964 and 1974, 5.6% between 1974 and 1981, and then dropped to
about 3.7% in 1982-84. However, the sector's share of GDP grew from about
8% in 1964 to 13.4% in 1984. Rising agricultural incomes, protectionism,
and GoverAment promotion of manufacturing ventures fuelled the rapid growth
prior to 1974. Primarily as a result of the last two factors, Kenya"s
manufacturing sector is oriented toward import substitution, relies heavily
on imported inputs, and is dominated by large, capital intensive firms,
many of which are government-owned. Manufactured exports were high in the
1960s, but their contribution to industrial growth declined sharply
thereafter -- the share of exports in manufactured output fell from 22.6%
in 1972 to 9.3 % in 1984. This decline was largely due to the dissolution
of the East African Common Market, as well as to the development of import
substitution industries in neighboring countries and economic difficulties
in these countries.  Although Kenya's manufacturing sector developed in an
environment encouraging private investment, government participation in
industrial firms increased during the 1970s.  The Govertnent now has at
least a minority interest in firms producing 50% of manufacturing value
added, reflecting to some extent pressures to Kenyanize the economy. More
recently, the Government has emphasized promoting Kenyan-owned enterprises,
mainly small-scale, rather than creating public enterprises.



- 10 -
33.       Although more than half of manufacturing value added is accounted
for by food processing, textiles, clothing, leather, and wood, 43% of value
added is contributed by more capital intensive subsectors, i.e., electrical
machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, and paper. About 75% of
manufacturing value added is contributed by 605 firms which employ more
than 50 persons. These larger companies, which represent only 221 of the
total number of registered firms (2,669), employ 951 of the 149,000
employees in the formal manufacturing labor force. The remaining 7,000
formal manufacturing jobs are provided by some 2,000 registered small-scale
firms. In addition to the registered small industries there are an
estimated 14,000 small unregistered manufacturing enterprises employing
some 31,000 persons not included in the formal sector statistics.
Therefore, about 16,000 smaller enterprises (the registered plus the
unregistered firms) employing less than 50 workers produce about 20% of
manufacturing value added and employ 38,000 people or 22% of the
manufacturing labor force. The share of units employing less than 50
persons in both total manufacturing value added and employment in Kenya is
considerably smaller than in other developing countries with similar factor
endowments and at about the same level of development, indicating that
Kenya's manufacturing sector is overly dominated by the larger companies.
The Small Scale industry Sector
34.       Sectoral Characteristics.   As noted above, Kenya's small-scale
industry (SSI) sector consists of about 14,000 traditional rural (mostly
non-wage household) enterprises or urban wage-paying units employing one or
two individuals and 2,000 modern small-scale manufacturing units employing
between three and fifty employees. Traditional enterprises engage mainly
in relatively simple activities such as charcoal making, weaving, knitting,
tailoring, furniture making and repair services. Most of these enterprises
use hand-operated equipment and their owners have well-developed technical
skills. However, they lack managerial skills, produce low quality
products which are only marketed locally, and generally have their
financial needs met from outside the formal financial system. The modern
small-scale industry sector accounts for 3% of GDP and 4% of national
employment. The range of products manufactured by this sector is far
greater than that of the traditional sector. Important modern small-scale
industries include: food processing, grain milling, wood products,
clothing, leather goods, pottery and glass, metal work, furniture and
fixtures. This sector has proven to be an important source of basic goods
for low-income households and the major seedbed for developing local
industrialists. Much of the modern small enterprise sector has developed
around Nairobi and Mombasa, and about 60% of the employment it provides is
located there. Although there is considerable potential for additional
small-scale enterprise formation, a number of constraints have slowed down
the sector's development relative to the large-scale sector.
35.       SSI Problems and Constraints.  Lack of entrepreneurial and
managerial skills is one of the most serious constraints facing Kenya's
small-scale industry.  As in many African countries, failure rates are high
both for the entrepreneurs who try to move out of the traditional informal
sector to the modern small-scale industry sector as well as for new
entrepreneurs. The Government as well as the financial institutions that
have provided credit to small-scale industrialists have made special



- 11 -
efforts to address these problems through training and technical
assistance. The proposed project will provide additional entrepreneur
training in management.
36.       Lack of access to term finance affects small-scale industry's
capacity to develop, particularly for those small industries whose owners
do not have established commercial banking relationships. One of the major
objectives of the proposed Credit is to address this problem. Small
enterprises are also not well-positioned to tender for larger orders, or
obtain government approvals and tax incentives which can significantly
affect profitability. In addition, small enterprises are at a disadvantage
in competing with larger firms in that they often cannot purchase materials
in optimal quantities at favorable prices or have limited access to
well-developed distribution channels and to foreign exchange allocations.
The Government, through the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, is planning
to provide support through a general extension program to small
industrialists in overcoming these constraints. A new Government policy to
move significant public sector procurement to the district level has
enhanced the ability of small industrialists to compete.
Government Objectives and the Role of Small-Scale Industry
37.       The Government's current objectives for the manufacturing sector,
as reiterated in the Sessional Paper No. 1, 1986, Economic Management for
Renewed Growth, include accelerated employment creation, a larger share of
factor payments for lower income groups in areas outside Nairobi, increased
use of local inputs, emphasis on rehabilitation and expansion, the
production of inexpensive consumer goods, and the development of a
significant small-scale entrepreneur sector. This is a sensible change
from past policies towards the industrial sector. High effective
protection for import substitution industries, for example, resulted in
increased domestic (nominal) value added, but in little expansion of
employment, while, at the same time, the high-cost products of these
enterprises, produced with imported materials, were not accessible to
Kenya's low-income consumers. The policies of import liberalization and
tariff reform that the Government is pursuing should go a long way towards
correcting these anomalies. In an effort to reverse the effects of past
policies, the Government has, in recent years, offered more effective
encouragement to the small enterprise sector, primarily through expanding
and strengthening Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), its largest program for
financial and technical assistance to small firms.
38.       Small-scale industrial development would contribute to Kenya's
short-ternm strategy in several ways. First, SSI production (largely
domestic resource-based) of import substitutes would reduce pressure on the
balance of payments during the adjustment period. Second, small
enterprises would provide employment to persons displaced from other
subsectors. Third, the broadening of the entrepreneurial class through
increased African participation could be an effective antidote to the
potential social unrest associated with the adjustment process.
Small-scale industrial development programs can thus proceed in parallel to
the ongoing structural adjustment process, with the latter being the main
vehicle for sector policy reform and the former providing much needed
support during the adjustment process. As KIE is the major Government



- 12 -
program for small-scale industry development, Government has asked for
continued Bank Group support to reinforce the positive momentum KIE has
achieved toward improving its effectiveness as a viable, self-sufficient
lending institution.
39.       The increased emphasis on small-scale industrial development
reflected in Government's current Five-Year Plan for industry is sound and
represents an appropriate strategy for pursuing Government's longer-term
objectives. First, SSI tends to be labor intensive, creating jobs at a low
US$5,600 cost per job (considerably less than the US$25,000 cost per job
for larger industrial projects in Kenya). Small-scale industry also
absorbs relatively more unskilled workers than large-scale industry and
provides a training ground for the development of the entrepreneurial and
technical skills of the informal labor force. In addition, SSIs offer a
good opportunity to develop new entrepreneurs, use primarily local
materials, and provide consumption goods to lower-income groups at the
local level. Rural-based small-scale industry is regionally more evenly
distributed than large-scale industry which is concentrated in the urban
centers. Small enterprise development is also consistent with, and is
likely to receive a boost from, the increased attention Government is
giving to agriculture in an effort to meet the country's food requirements
with domestic supplies. Growth in agricultural output is likely to
stimulate development of rural based small-scale industries processing
agricultural inputs. Growing agricultural incomes tend to stimulate the
small-scale enterprise sector which, in turn, makes incentive goods
available to encourage increased agricultural production. The lower-income
farm population spends a relatively high proportion of their income on
typical small-scale enterprise products, while these enterprises are
located close to dispersed sources of increased demand for manufactured
consumer products and simple capital goods.
The Financial Sector
40.       For a country of its income level, Kenya has a diverse and
sophisticated financial system. The sector includes a central bank, 24
commercial banks, 48 non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs), 30 insurance
companies, a postal savings bank, a social security system, numerous
pension plans, six industrial development banks, other specialized
financial intermediaries, a stock exchange, and over 900 savings and credit
cooperatives. Although the commercial banks continue to dominate the
financial system, their relative position has declined due to the
unprecedented growth of NBFIs. Because they are able to charge and pay
higher interest rates than commercial banks, NBFIs have grown rapidly in
number, with deposits growing on average 25% between 1981 and 1985. During
the same period, their share of private sector credit increased from 30% to
40%. Many NBFIs are under-capitalized, however, and a recent amendment to
the Banking Act will strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework
for NBFlb.
41.       Six development finance institutions (DFIs) operating in the
industrial sector have carved out niches in areas where commercial banks
and NBFIs have not operated. Government owns the Industrial Development
Bank (IDB), Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) and
the Kenya Tourist Development Corporation (KTDC), as well as KIE. It also



- 13 -
has minority shares in the other two DFIs, the East African Development
Bank (EADB), also serving Uganda and Tanzania, and the Development Finance
Company of Kenya (DFCK), which is privately controlled. Of the six, ICDC,
KIE and DFCK have established term lending programs for SSIs. IDB, EADB,
and DFCK, taking advantage of their foreign sources of funds, have
specialized in foreign exchange term lending, mainly to medium and
large-scale enterprises.
42.       Resource Mobilization and Interest Rates.  Total deposits of
commercial banks, NBFIs and the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) grew at an
average annual rate of about 11% between 1981 and 1985. Minimum deposit
rates, set by the Central Bank of Kenya, allow little, if any, spread for
maturity and thus severely limit mobilization of long term local currency
resources. Although past deposit and lending rates have been predominantly
negative in real terms, since 1982, upward adjustments in nominal rates,
accompanied by declining inflation (at present about 10-11%), have made
real rates positive. As of December 31, 1985, commercial banks charged 14%
interest on overdrafts.
43.       The Role of Commercial Banks in Lending to SSI.  As in many
developing countries, commercial banks have been reluctant to assist
small enterprises and tend to minimize risk by lending to borrowers with
strong collateral and lending on a short-term basis. USAID has prepared a
Rural Private Enterprise Project, setting aside US$24 million to encourage
commercial banks to provide term finance to small and medium-scale private
enterprises. While no bank has drawn down funds yet, three commercial
banks have indicated limited interest in the program. The program includes
incentives to encourage the banks to lend to smaller enterprices, but sets
no maximum loan size. Barclay's and Standard anticipate using the funds
primarily for their traditional larger, well established clientele. With
respect to short term lending to SSI, the commercial banks have been
reluctant to provide working capital loans and thus have hampered the
ability of SSIs to grow successfully. Term lenders, such as KIE, are not
well equipped to assist entrepreneurs meaningfully with this problem
because of their lack of rapid decision-making apparatus and their
inability to monitor and control daily account activity. KIE intends to
make working capital loans in cases where an SSI has a firm order from a
client who will agree to make payments directly to KIE. In addition, USAID
is considering a plan (formulated with the help of IDA) to encourage
commercial banks to provide working capital finance to SSIs by guaranteeing
a portion of the ultimate loss for working capital loans.
44.       Institutions Providing Term Finance to Small-Scale Enterprises.
KCFC, DFCK and ICDC as well as KIE provide term loan assistance to SSIs in
Kenya. KIE, the beneficiary under the proposed Credit and Government's
principal tool to support SSI development, continues to be the most
prominent and most regionally decentralized institution lending to SSIs.
It had a portfolio valued at US$17 million equivalent in June 1986 and made
an average of US$3 million in new loans annually in 1984 and 1985. KCFC
has developed a special term lending program for SSIs with the assistance
of about $9 million in lines of credit from USAID, IFC and OPEC. KCFC is
not resource constrained and is not expected to overlap significantly with
KIE's lending program, as its clients consist largely of more experienced
entrepreneurs with substantial collateral. DFCK, a privately controlled



- 14 -
DFI, established a separate subsidiary, SEFCO, in 1984, to handle
small-scale industrial lending. SEFCO's program, although serving the same
clientele as KIE, is much smaller, its total portfolio amounting to less
than US$2 million. Moreover, as SEFCO has a small professional staff (six)
and lacks a branch network, it has initially focused its operations on two
provinces and subsectors (wood and food products). Although SEFCO has been
established with sound policies and procedures and adequate technical
assistance, it has had to curtail its new lending to deal with a mounting
arrears problem. Its external shareholders have made funding available on
attractive terms and conditions to meet all of SEFCO's rather limited needs
over the 1986-1988 time period, forecast optimistically at US$4 million
equivalent.
45.       The Government's ICDC has operated a small-scale industrial and
commercial lending program for a number of years. Since March 1982,
however, ICDC has suspended new lending to SSIs and small scale commercial
enterprises, in order to consolidate its operations, reduce its arrears,
and rehabilitate many of its large investments. As many of its larger
scale investments have now been revitalized, ICDC has KSh 20 million
available to renew its lending to small-scale industrial and commercial
enterprises. It is the view of Government and IDA that ICDC's ongoing
small-scale lending should be limited to commerce, as these appraisals are
less complex and few other sources of financing exist for African-owned
commercial ventures without requiring substantial collateral. ICDC's SSI
lending has performed poorly due to inadequate staff, procedures, and
infrastructure support. Moreover, ICDC's staff could play an invaluable
role in helping to restructure other medium- and large-scale industries in
Kenya. Government intends to continue to discourage ICDC from reviving its
SSI lending program.
Bank Sector Strategy
46.       The Bank strategy for the industrial sector is to support the
Government's objectives through fostering the development of an efficient
sector, capable of generating a growing share of the country's output and
employment on a regionally dispersed basis, and in which private
entrepreneurs will play an increasingly significant role. To implement
this strategy, the Bank Group relies on a range of instruments, including
project and non-project lending, and economic and sector work. Past
lending to the sector includes four loans to the Industrial Development
Bank (IDB) for medium and large-scale investment, and one loan to KIE for
small-scale industry. It also includes three non-project lending
operations in support of policy reform. For the future, a policy-based
sector loan will aim at strengthening Kenya's policy and institutional
environment, while a complementary rehabilitation project will provide
assistance to large scale industry in selected sectors during this period
of adjustment.  In project lending, high priority is given to providing
support to small-scale industry for the development of industrial
employment and local entrepreneurship, particularly amongst the African
population. In addition to being a major Government objective,
opportunities for socio-economic advancement to aspiring Africans are
likely to soften the short-term adjustment impact associated with sectoral
policy reforms. To this end, the proposed credit would provide effective
assistance to small-scale industrialists and enhance the ability of KIE to
deliver financial and technical assistance to these industrialists.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The proposed project was prepared by KIE, with IDA assistance.
It was appraised in February-March 1985 and negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from September 9-13, 1985. The Kenya delegation was led
by Mr. D. N. Namu, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
The Staff Appraisal Report No. 5773-KE, dated August 28, 1986, has been
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The interval between
negotiations and circulation of Board documents reflects the time taken to
obtain necessary Cabinet approval of a financial restructuring plan for
KIE. A Credit and Project Summary is given at the beginning of this
report, and a supplementary project data sheet is provided as Annex III of
this report.
Project Objectives
48.       The project would be IDA's second line of credit to KIE for
Kenya's small-scale industrial sector. As KIE is Government's major
channel for supporting small-scale industry, the Government has asked for
continued Bank Group support to reinforce the positive momentum KIE has
achieved toward improving its effectiveness as a viable self-supporting
lending institution. Its main objectives are to: (i) provide resources
to small-scale enterprises with good potential for income-generation and
job creation at a relatively low cost; (ii) help develop the capabilities
of small-scale entrepreneurs, mainly Africans, by strengthening KIE's
capability to provide intensive entrepreneur training, project supervision,
and technical assistance; (iii) make KIE a more efficient channel for SSI
lending by strengthening its financial base and rationalizing its lending
and industrial estate activities; and (iv) maintain, through the dialogue
with IDA, the substantial momentum toward improvement which KIE has
generated in the past 18 months.
Rationale for the Involvement of the Association in the Project
49.       The Association's support for this project is in the context of
its broader support for industrial and agricultural development in Kenya.
Recent Bank assistance to Kenya has sought, inter alia, to support reforms
of agricultural and industrial policies designed to raise the economic
efficiency of these sectors. It is, therefore, appropriate that, as a
complement to the structural adjustment reforms, positive encouragement to
small enterprises should also be pursued, not as a substitute, but to
accelerate and facilitate the process of increasing the role of these
enterprises in Kenya's economy, to enhance their labor absorption capacity,
to increase their capacity to produce import substitutes at low foreign
exchange cost, and to contribute to social stability during the adjustment
process by the broadening of the entrepreneurial class. The contribution
of small industry to the success of structural adjustment in agriculture
should increase the propensity for consumer spending by agriculturalists,
and stimulate the production of incentive goods, which in turn should
improve agricultural production. Small enterprise development is, there-
fore, a natural and desirable complement to the agricultural reform and



-- 16 -
development which the Bank seeks to sponsor and support. In addition,
continued IDA involvement with KIE is important at this time as KIE is
still in the early stages of a turnaround in its performance. KIE, with
IDA assistance, has already taken significant steps to improve its
portfolio, strengthen its financial base, and institute better appraisal
and supervision procedures. IDA participation would also help insulate KIE
from political pressures, which in the past have led to economically
unsound projects and estate construction. Finally, the proposed credit
would enable IDA to play a key role in improving coordination between KIE's
various lenders and sources of technical assistance.
Project Description
50.       The project would support Government's program of assisting SSIs
through the following components:
(a)   a credit component of US$5.0 million, representing 83%
of the IDA credit, in the form of a line of credit to
KIE for onlending to an estimated 200 SSIs for plant
and equipment, machinery, and permanent working
capital; and,
(b)   a techinical assistance component of US$1.0 million to
finance: (i) two Deputy Managers for the new
entrepreneur training and supervision functions; (ii)
continuation of the Finance Manager position; (iii)
development costs for the entrepreneur training
program; and (iv) a survey to identify areas where SSIs
could competitively provide intermediate inputs to
medium- and large-scale industry.
The Institution
51.       Established in 1967 as a wholly owned subsidiary of ICDC, KIE
became an independent parastatal in 1977. During the last nine years, KIE
has become Government's principal tool to support SSI development with
total assets of US$32 million, 28 regional centers, 39i .heds for rent to
entrepreneurs, 427 employees (including 114 higher level staff), and a
portfolio of 630 subloans. IDA made its first credit to KIE in 1977
(Credit 750-KE). From the original USSL0.0 million, about US$3.3 million
was cancelled, as the expiration date for commitments out of the subloan
component was not extended and the industrial estate component was largely
unutilized. Experience under the Credit was desappointing in that, until
recently, KIE did not make satisfactory progress toward becoming a
self-sufficient financial institution and developing a successful lending
program. Although KIE proved to be a dynamic institution dedicated to
assisting SSIs, its insufficient attention to project selection and
supervision led to high arrears, low collections, and financial losses.
52.       With encouragement from Government and IDA, KIE has fundamentally
altered its attitude and, over the past 18 months, has taken a number of
significant steps to strengthen itself. In 1984, it approved a new Policy
Statement and Guidelines for operations incorporating a number of changes



- 17 -
IDA, has been advocating for some time., e.g. raising minimum equity
investment requirements, increasing interest rates, and limiting KIE
industrial estate investment to projects which are financially viable. It
has also launched a major effort to improve debt collections, resulting in
an Improved collections performance and arreara position. Finally, KIE,
with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministvy of Commerce and Industry, has
formulated a comprehensive financial restructuring program to help make KIE
more financially self-sufficient.
53.       A representative sample of 232 enterprises financed by KIE
between 1977 and 1985 (about 40% of KIE projects) was analyzed to help KIE
identify the major characteristics of small-scale industries and determine
which ones are most associated with successful projects. The most
successful projects have been those costing less than US$30,000 and those
located off estates, in medium-sized cities, and in rural areas. Among
sub-sectors, the pattern is less clear, although service and food
industries appear to be more successful than other industries. A post
evaluation of 109 subprojects funded under the first IDA Credit shows that
the IDA subprojects fared better than KIE's non-IDA portfolio: 732 of the
projects are rated successful and 16% unsuccessful, compared to 55Z and 33%
respectively for the non-IDA portfolio. For IDA subprojects, the cost per
job created was about US$3,600 zompared to US$5,600 for the entire KIE
portfolio. Owner-managed subprojects and those headed by individuals with
previous management experience and/or relevant technical skills have had a
significantly better success record than those that do not meet these
criteria. Experience with these subprojects suggests that IDA's
involvement in subpro.ect review has improved the prospects for project
success and has led KIE to change its lending policies so as to shift its
emphasis to these more successful projects.
54.       At headquarters, KIE has nine departments including three lending
operations departments for appraisals, implementation, and supervision and
entrepreneur training; two small departments for industrial estate and
technical service center (TSC) activities; and four administrative and
financial support departments (the personnel, finance, legal, and internal
audit departments). In addition, eight regional managers report to senior
management and, in turn, supervise 20 Rural Industrial Development Centers
(RIDC) and Investment Promotion Area (IPA) managers within their respective
regions. KIE's organization is appropriately decentralized, with regional
managers wielding considerable influence regarding project selection,
promotion and appraisal, as well as industrial estate management. KIE's
manpower plan for the next four years does not show much overall growth,
except for the recruitment of supervision and training officers and the
establishment of a new Credit Evaluation Unit. As a continuation of its
extensive ongoing training program, KIE has prepared a new three-year
program for staff training in project processing, accounting, and financial
analysis. NORAD has indicated interest in supporting this program. In
addition, the proposed Deputy Managers for Project Supervision and
Entrepreneur Training would be important sources of in-house training.
While morale is high and the staff is enthusiastic and hard working, KIE
finds recruiting and retaining high quality professional staff difficult
because it was assigned a significantly lower salary grade structure than
other parastatals with which KIE competes for staff. Government has
approved a scheme to review public service salaries, including KIE, and



- 18 -
intends to harmonize the salaries and terms of service for its DFIs-an
action which would result in improving KIE's salary structure. Government
has agreed to keep IDA informed of progress on its review. In the interim,
KIE has some latitude to upgrade remuneration to more realistic levels
through more generous job ratings and better fringe benefits.
55.       In the past 18 months, KIE has undertaken a number of
organizational and procedural changes to strengthen its project processing
capabilities. To strengthen its appraisals, KIE has expanded its appraisal
report format, giving better coverage to assumptions used, marketing
analysis, project risks, sensitivity to differing levels of production, the
entrepreneur's managerial capability, and a simplified economic rate of
return analysis for projects over US$30,000. KIE has also begun to prepare
subsector industry profiles based on KIE experience to be utilized in new
appraisals. KIE will place more emphasis on experienced entrepreneurs,
owner-operated projects, expansions of successful smaller projects, and
projects which do not, themselves, directly Import raw materials or depend
on tariff protection. KIE has also requested Germany to finance a
Financial Analyst for two years to help KIE improve the financial
evaluations of project proposals and has agreed to recruit this person by
December 31, 1986. Finally, KIE is setting up a new credit evaluation
unit, and has agreed to recruit a qualified Kenyan to head its credit
evaluation section as a condition of credit effectiveness. KIE has amended
its operational guidelines to incorporate agreed changes in lending
policies and has agreed not to amend its operational guidelines without
prior consultation with IDA.
56.       KIE established two new departments in October 1984 to provide
more efrective support to its clients. The first, the Project
Implementation and Technical Support Department, is responsible for
reviewing appraisal documents, assisting entrepreneurs with administrative
processing, dealing with suppliers, and providing a consulting service to
troubleshoot on technical problems for ongoing operations. The second, a
Supervision and Entrepreneur Training Department, represents a fundamental
change in KIE's strategy to prepare projects and entrepreneurs more
carefully and provide intensive supervision and training on an ongoing
basis. The new departnient will consist of a supervision division and an
entrepreneur training division. The supervision division will visit all
projects periodically during the first two years of operation, and will
appraise potential expansion and rehabilitation projects which may be
identified in the context of its supervision visits. The new entrepreneur
training division will expand KIE's ongoing training programs for existing
entrepreneurs and establish a 'front-end training program, obligatory for
all prospective entrepreneurs before project implementation, with the
exception of those with unusually strong business experience. IDA has
agreed to finance Deputy Managers for both the supervision and entrepreneur
training divisions, and their recruitment is a condition of effectiveness.
Consultants, funded under Credit 750-KE, have assisted KIE in preparing a
short-term approach to entrepreneur training and support, and the
implementation of its expanded entrepreneur training program.
57.       KIE has implemented a more effective debt collection system
and has improved collections substantially. KIE inherited a number of
loans from its parent ICDC in 1978, which, as of June 30, 1986, included 32



- 19 -
loans, all affected by arrears and which constitute 23% of KIE's total
arrears. KIE has already disposed of 9 additional inherited loans. In
addition, 15% of KIE's portfolio is comprised of 'sensitive' loans to
politically influential persons in Kenya. The new system places primary
responsibility for debt collection on the regional managers, and includes
active participation by senior management and a much improved management
reporting system. The Legal Department has initiated a program of
threatened and actual legal actions for nearly 200 projects over the past
two years. As a result, KIE has sold some projects to other entrepreneurs,
successfully rehabilitated some others, and liquidated and written off a
third group. KIE, with Government support, has also begun an aggressive
campaign to collect arrears on -sensitive' loans, and has improved
collections for this category, taken legal action where possible, and, more
importantly, avoided new loans of this type.
58.       Since September 1982, KIE's Finance Department has been ably
managed by an expatriate funded under IDA Credit 750-KE for whom KIE has
requested an extension for three additional years under the proposed
credit. A suitable counterpart for this position would be identified prior
to credit effectiveness. KIE, with IDA agreement, appointed new external
auditors in 1984 who have provided constructive advice to KIE regarding its
accounts and record keeping procedures and helped KIE arrive at a
satisfactory bad debt provisions policy. KIE is also retaining
consultants, funded under Credit 750-KE, to help computerize its accounts
and improve its management information systems.
59.       Beginning with the initial construction of sheds in 1967, KIE's
industrial estate operations have expanded to include 397 sheds of which
337 (82%) were rented in June 1986. The industrial estate program employs
296 people (many of whom also work on lending), of whom 56 are higher level
employees. Nonetheless, the program has placed a heavy financial and
administrative burden on KIE. Principal reasons for its poor financial
performance are the low occupancy rates, below market rental rates, poor
rental collections, high administrative costs, and inefficient management
procedures. KIE is preparing a real estate management study (carried out
by consultants and funded under the first line of credit) designed to
improve the efficiency of estate management. KIE has also sharply reduced
its new industrial estate construction program in recent years having
initiated construction of only 3 new estates since 1983.
60.       KIE's industrial estate facilities have been important in
encouraging investment in smaller towns and rural areas with inadequate
infrastructure and are a highly visible form of support for which political
considerations have played an important role in decisions as to where and
whether to build such facilities. However, the estate program has not
fulfilled all of its socio-economic objectives (projects located on estates
have performed more poorly than projects off estates) because: (i)
facilities have been built without feasibility studies; (ii) estates are
often located several kilometers away from the market center and from
public transport; and (iii) once built, KIE has financed marginal projects
in order to fill the sheds. KIE has already amended its policy statement
so that it will finance only estates that are financially viable, or
finance unviable estates only on a managed fund basis. In addition, KIE
has agreed that no new industrial estate facilities will be built no matter



- 20 -
how they are financed unless they are supported by a feasibility study
satisfactory to IDA. KIE will amend its policy statements accordingly.
61.       KIE has been administering 18 TSC's (workshops equipped with
woodworking and metal working equipment), which also represent a heavy
financial and administrative drain on KIE. Therefore, KIE has agreed to
lease or sell all of its TSC's with the exception of those in Nairobi,
Mombasa, Nakuru and Nyeri (which will be kept longer to allow redeployment
of TSC workers who are displaced and cannot be absorbed elsewhere in KIE).
KIE has agreed to sell or lease at least 12 TSC's by December 31, 1986.
As of June 30, 1986, nine had already been leased. Efforts are already
underway and interested lessees have been identified for several of the
facilities.
62.       KIE's Board adopted a new policy statement and operating
guidelines which were implemented in July 1984. The significant changes
are: (i) a required 30% minimum equity contribution from owner-operated
projects and 402 from sponsors of projects managed by non-owners; (ii) an
increase in interest rates to 14% for loans exceeding US$60,000 equivalent,
and 13% for smaller loans (up from 11% and 10% respectively); and (iii)
confining construction of new industrial estates to financially viable
schemes supported by a feasibility study. KIE's policy statement requires
it to protect itself against foreign exchange risk, maintain a debt to
equity ratio not exceeding 3:1, and prohibits investing in enterprises with
total assets exceeding USS300,000 equivalent. KIE has agreed not to make
changes to its policy statement which would adversely affect its operations
and financial condition without prior agreement with the Associatior.
63.       KIE's net approvals remained relatively constant from 1981 to
1984, but dropped in 19F.5 due to a KIE decision to slow down approvals,
concentrate on improving internal procedures and policies, and focus on
collections. Disbursements averaged about USS3.4 million equivalent per
year over the FY82-85 period. KIE expects FY86 approvals to reach USS4.8
million equivalent and then increase by 10% p.a. in real terms from FY87
onward. KIE estimates the number of projects approved for the same period
will increase from 200 projects in FY86 to about 280 by FY90. KIE's
project pipeline, as of June 30, 1985, consisted of over 500 projects
totalling US$13.1 million equivalent in total project costs and requiring
US$9.1 million equivalent in loans from KIE. This pipeline represents more
th,:n 3 years of KIE's projected commitments and should ensure that demand
for loans will not be a constraint on KIE's ability to meet their projected
disbursement levels. Labor intensive sectors, such as food, clothing, and
woodworking, were most heavily represented, and over 15% of the pipeline
consisted of expansion projects.
64.       As of June 30, 1986, KIE had US$21.7 million equivalent in loans
outstanding encompassing 678 loans. With the recent improvements in KIE's
collections (which, for the quarter ending March 31, 1986, amounted to 93%
of new amounts coming due), KIE's arrears situation has begun to improve.
Although arrears of more than three months remain over 20%, the percentage
of projects experiencing arrears has dropped from 69% to 56%. While KIE's
arrears remain serious, as is the case of many DFIs worldwide, KIE's



- 21 -
portfolio is improving and is better than that of several other Eastern
African DFIs. KIE has recently experienced some setbacks in meeting
collections targets, as the most 'collectable' loans have already been
tackled and management's attention had been diverted to other tasks after
the initial full-scale campaign. KIE now has a Chief Debt Collector in
place, and improved debt collection procedures and enhanced project
implementation support and supervision should help KIE to gradually improve
further its arrears situation. KIE's collection ratio averaged 82% in
1985, up from 652 in 1984.
65.       In line with its intention to clearly define the financial status
of parastatals and require them to demonstrate financial discipline,
Government, with active KIE support, has recently approved a major
financial restructuring of KIE. The restructuring consists of: (i)
converting KSh 139 million of Government loans to KIE into equity; and (ii)
clarifying the terms of KSh 222 million of additional Government loans to
KIE; and (iii) directing KIE to pay 15% of future profits as a dividend to
Government. Without the restructuring, KIE's debt to equity ratio would
exceed the 3:1 maximum stipulated in its policy statement, KIE would
experience losses over the next several years, and would not service its
debt. The restructuring is a clear signal from Government that it supports
KIE's objective to become a financially autonomous institution.
Satisfactory implementation by KIE would be a condition of effectiveness.
66.       Although KIE's operating profits before provisions for bad debt
have steadily improved, it made net losses in three of the past five
years. KIE's poor financial performance to date is due to: (i) losses
incurred on its industrial estate and TSC activities; (ii) high
administrative costs; and (iii) high provisions, due to the poor quality of
its loan portfolio. KIE anticipates steady improvements in profitability
in future years as its change in strategy should lead to better projects,
lower provisions, smaller losses on industrial estate activity, and higher
spreads due to increased interest rates. KIE is also taking steps to
reduce administrative costs, including computerization of its accounts,
implementation of appropriate management information systems for its
operations, selling or leasing TSC's, and undertaking a real estate
management study. KIE has also agreed to submit its Operating Plan to IDA
by April 1 of each year for review. The Operating Plan includes operations
and financial projections for five years on a rolling basis, with targets
for improving profitability, increasing collections and lowering arrears.
It will revise its annual plan based on IDA's comments and will not change
agreed performance indicators relating to loan collections, arrears, and
profitability without the agreement of IDA. Through its review of KIE's
Operating Plan and performance relative to the agreed indicators, IDA would
be able to monitor KIE's efforts to continuously improve its performance
during the life of the projert.
67.       KIE's improved financial position will also enable it to cease
being a net burden on the Government budget. KIE plans to pay in to
Government about US$9.7 million in cash (interest and loan repayments,



- 22 -
taxes, dividends) during 1986-90 compared with a US$6.5 million outflow
during 1982-85. KIE's projected resource requirements during the three and
one-half years ending December 31, 1969, are estimated at US$25.6 million,
with a gap before external funding of US$12.0 million. In addition to the
proposed US$5.0 million line of credit which would fund 42% of KIE's total
resource gap, KIE expects to receive additional external funding of about
US$3.7 million from NORAD and KFW (excluding technical assistance funds)
and US$0.9 million in new Government loans. In addition, KIE is discussing
a possible new line of credit from the African Development Bank.
Features of the Proposed Credit
68.        The proposed IDA credit of USS6.0 million would be made to the
Government of Kenya on normal IDA terms. The Government would onlend
US$5.0 million from the proposed credit to KIE at 6% p.a., under a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA, with a fixed amortization
schedule for 15 years, including three years grace. This rate is
consistent with the onlending agreement for the first credit, the terms of
the proposed financial restructuring of KIE, and Government rates charged
to other parastatals. Government would bear the exchange rate risk on the
proceeds onlent to KIE. Clients would, however, be charged a new 1% p.a.
supervision fee in lieu of a foreign exchange risk fee. KIE will place
funds equivalent to 3% annual interest on the IDA funds onlent from
Government (US$150,000 when fully disbursed) under the credit into a
supervision expense account within its chart of accounts to cover
significant new costs associated with intensive project supervision and
entrepreneur training. The Government would pass on US$1.0 million for
technical assistance to KIE as a grant.
69.       KIE would relend funds from the line of credit to its borrowers
at its usual interest rates of 13% and 14% p.a., plus the 1% p.a.
supervision fee, with fixed amortization schedules depending on the nature
and debt servicing capacity of the subproject. KIE would review its
interest rate structure with IDA on an annual basis in light of prevailing
economic conditions and commercial bank overdraft lending rates.
70.       The subloans would finance plant and equipment, machinery, and
permanent working capital requirements of subprojects. IDA funds would
finance 90% of the amount of the individual KIE subloans, equivalent to the
estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of subprojects   KIE
would be allowed a free limit of USS75,000, enabling IDA to review about
10% of the subloans financed under the credit.
71.       KIE would submit quarterly reports which would include a summary
of operations, financial statements, cash flow statements, debt collection
performance, and statement of arrears. It would also submit audited annual
accounts within six months after the close of the fiscal year, in
accordance with Bank guidelines for audit of DFCs. Finally, KIE would
submit its Annual Operating Plan by April 1 of each year to IDA for
review. KIE's past audit report and quarterly submissions have been
satisfactory.
72.       Procurement of goods and services under the line of credit to KIE
would be in accord with KIE's procurement guidelines which are in line with



- 23 -
procedures followed by other IDA-assisted DFI's. Services for technical
assistance and training would be procured in accordance with IDA guide-
lines.
73.       Proceeds of the credit component to KIE would be disbursed over
eight years (in line with the region-wide disbursement profile for the IDF
sector) and would finance 90% of the amount of subloans approved by KIE.
Proceeds of the technical assistance component would finance: (i) 100% of
salary, airfares, and transport expense for expatriate consultants; and
(ii) 8OX of the cost of local consultants and related office expenses. To
expedite disbursements, Government would establish a Special Account in
KIE's name with an initial deposit of US$300,000 equivalent with a
commercial bank to be replenished by IDA in accordance with agreed
procedures. The establishment of the Special Account would be r. condition
of credit effectiveness.
Benefits and Justification
74.       Support to KIE at this point in its institutional development
would help maintain the momentum created by its recent achievements with
resulting benefit to the Kenyan small-scale industry sector. It is
estimated that about 200 entrepreneurs would be assisted by the project and
some 1,500 jobs would be created at an estimated average cost per job of
US$5,000. Most KIE projects would be located in rural areas where economic
expansion, resulting from the Governmeut's increased emphasis on agri-
culture, provides a stimulus. Consequently, the credit would provide for
parallel and mutually reinforcing growth in both agriculture and industry,
i.e. small-scale industry would satisfy demands for simple manufactured
goods orfIinating from growing agricultural incomes and would also process
agriculture products. The project would also reduce pressure on the
balance of payments through the production of goods for the domestic market
using primarily local inputs.  The broadening of the entrepreneurial class
through the creation of a number of new, geographically widely dispersed
small entrepreneurs is, perhaps, the most important benefit.  This is
particularly timely as the success of the macro-economic adjustment
policies of the Government depend on visible improvement in the fortunes of
segments of the population which will be most positively affected by this
project.
Risks
75.       There is a risk that, despite its substantial progress to date,
KIE may depart from its present drive toward becoming a more efficient,
more financially-independent channel for providing financial and technical
assistance services to small enterprises. This risk is mitigated, however,
by: (i) KIE's plans to construct industrial estates only if they can be
shown to be financially and economically viable; (ii) placing more emphasis
on expansion of existing sucessful small enterprises; and (iii) giving
preference to smaller new projects which can later expand if successful.
Government commitment to the KIE program and its objectives to become a
sound institution provides further assurance that pressures for
non-economic decisions would be reduced. KIE's improved performance,
achieved in close cooperation with IDA, -has been followed closely by other
donors and has convinced them to revive their support for the institution.



- 24 -
KIE will also receive continued technical assistance in the area of
financial management and new technical assistance will be provided in the
areas of entrepreneur training and supervision. Finally, supervision
missions will continue to closely monitor KIE's progress and assist In the
implementation of the agreed program.
PART V. RECONMENDATION
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 24, 1986



-25 -                                ANNEX I
Page 1
3  Definitions of Social Indicators
The definition of a particular social indicator may    Totialfertility rate - The average number of children
vary among countries or within one country over    that would be born alive to a woman during her
time. For instance. different countries define -urban    lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to
area or -safe water" in different ways.         bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-
ing age-specific fertility rates.
AREA (thousand square kilometers)               Infant (age 0-I) mortali:v rate - Number of infants
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and    per thousand live births who die before reaching one
inland waters.                                  year of age, in a given year.
Agricultural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-    Child (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
cultural area used for crops, pastures, market and    of children age 1-4. per thousand children in the
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow. as percentage of    same age group in a given year. For most developing
total.                                          countries these data are derived from models using
information on infant mortality rates.
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per cap.ta esti-    Familv planning - acceptors. (thousands) - Annual
mates at current market prices. calculated by the    number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas.    ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
1986.                                           ning program.
Famity planning - users (pe.centage of married iwm-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATITilCS                 en) - PNrcentage of married women of child-bearing
Total population - mid-year (millions)          age who are practising, or whose husbands are
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    practising, any form of contraception. Women of
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-    child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49.
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of    although for some countries contraceptive usage is
data among countries.                           measured for another age group.
Popuation growth rate (percent) - total and urban -
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRMITON
uons.                                           Index offood production per capira f 1974-76= 100)
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    comnmodities. Production excludes animnal feed and
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
to stay the same throughout its life            mary commodities (for example. sugarcane instead
Population projections                          of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
Population in 000 - The projection of population    trients (for example. tea and coffee are excluded).
given total population by age and sex- fertility and    Commodities include nuts. fruits. pulses. cereals.
the demographic parameters of mortality rates. and  vegetables. oil seeds. sugarcane and sugar beets.
migration in the base year 1980. until the population    livestock. and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
reaches a stationary state.                     tion of each country is based on national average
Stationary population - The projected populaion    producer price weights.
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,   Per capira suppl, of calories (percentage of require-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate.    mentsj - Computed from energy equivalent of net
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is   food supplies available in country per capita per day.
zero.                                           Available supplies comprise domestic production.
Population density. agriculturalt and- Population per   imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    supplies exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agri-
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14    culture, quantities used in food processing, and loss-
years. working age 15-64 years. and people of 65    es in distribution. Requirements werc estimated for
years and over as percentages of population.     1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand    (FAO) based on physiological needs for nornal
population.                                     activity and health considering body weights. envi-
Cuide death rate - Annual deaths per thousand    ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
population.                                     population.



- 26 -                                   ANNE I
Page 2
per capita supplr of protetn (grams per day) - Protein    Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining. construc-
content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net    tion, manufacturing and electricity. water and gas as
supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for    a percentagc of total labor force.
all countries established by United States Depart-    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, andfemale
ment of Agriculture provide for minimum allow-    - Participation rates are computed as the percentage
ances of 60 gramns of tottl protein per day and 20  of population of all ages in the labor force. These are
grams of animal and p1se protein. These standards    based on International Labour Office (ILO) data on
are lower than those of 75 grarms of total protein and    the age-sex structure of the population.
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the    Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under IS,
world. as proposed by FAO.                       and 65 and over, to the working age population (age
Population per physician - Population divided by  15-64).
number of practising physicians qualified from a
medical school at university level.              HOUSING
Population per nursing person - Population divided  Average size of household (persons per household) -
by number of practising graduate nurses. assistant    total, urban, and rural - A household consists of a
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  group of individuals who share living quarters and
Popuation per hospital bed - Population divided by    main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-   included in the household for statistical purposes.
vate. gneral and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Percentage of dwellings with electricity - total. urban.
bilitation centers. Hospitals arc establishments    andrural - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
tablishments principally providing custodial care arc
not included.                                    EDUCATION
Access to safe water (percentage of popudation) - total.    Enrollnent Rates
urban. and rural - People (totaL urban, and rural) with  Primary School Enrollnent - total. male andfemale
reasonable access to safe water supply (icludes treat-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated  percentage of primary school-age children. While
water such as that from spnngs, sanitary wells. and  many countries consider primary school age to be
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    6-11 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
tam or standpost located not more than 200 meters    ences in countrv practices in the ages and duration
from a house may be considered within reasonable    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
access of that house. [n rural areas reasonable access    countries with universal education. gross enrollment
would imply that members of the household do not    may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  ger or older than the country's standard primary-
fetching water. Absent and ircomplete responses. and  school age.
large variations between countries. may affect the  Secondarr School Enrollment - total, male and
validity of the overall results of the country and    female - Computed in a similar manner. but includes
regional comparisons. In addition. certain definitions    pupils enrolled in vocational. or teacher training
and classifications such as urban and ruraL reason-    secondary schools. for pupils usually of 12 to 17
able access to safe water in rural areas, safe water    vears of age.
sources (when they are not subject to laboratory    Pupil-teacher ratio - primary . and secondarr - Total
control) vary considerably from country to country    students enrolled in school divided by the total
and thus affect comparability of the data.       nunber of teachers.
Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percen-
LABOR FORCE                                      tage of a cohort of 1.000 pupils siarting primary
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active    school that persist into grade six.
persons, including armed forces and unemployed but
excluding housewives and students. Definitions in    INCOME, CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
various countries are not comparable.            Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Female (percent) - Female labor force as a percen-    valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
tage of total labor force.                       mary energy (coal and lignite. petroleum. naturl
Agricitre (percent) - Labor force in farming,    gas and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percntage of total    Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
labor force.                                     and kind) accnring to percentile groups of house-



-27 -                                            ANNEX I
holds ranked by total household income.            Estimated absolute poverty income kvel (USS per    g  3
Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes    capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-    level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
cludes ambulances. hearses and military vehicles.  adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
Newspaper circulation (per thousand poputation) -    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
Average circulation of 'daily general interest news-    imate measures of poverty levels. and should be
paper." defined as a periodical publication devoted    intcrpreted with considerable caution.
primarily to recording general news. It is considered  Estimated population below absolute povertn income
to be daily- if it appeas at least four times a week.    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
populations who live in 'absolute poverty."



:  28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
KENYA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
,-,                           Recent    Low-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate   S-S Africa    S-S Africa
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)    582.6        582.6      582.6
Agricultural (X of total)         10.0        10.2        10.4
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                                      310.0       219.9      1025.3
POPULATION AID VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         9404.0    12684.0    19540.0
Urban pop. (S of total)                       11.2        18.3       20.4        33.1
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                        3.8        4.0         2.9         2.8
Urban                                        7.3         7.9        6.2         4.8
Life expect, at birth (yrs)       44.2        48.2       53.7        48.2       51.0
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (mill)                                    35.5
Stationary pop. (mill)                                111.1
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land             161.7       212.5      322.4        55.9       45.6
Pop. age structure X):
0-14 yrs                        49.3        49.5       52.5        46.7       46.2
15-64 yrs                       48.1       47.9        44.9        50.4       51.0
65 and above                     2.6         2.5        2.6         2.9        2.8
Crude birth rate (per thou)       51.0        54.8       53.2        46.8       46.3
Crude death rate (per thou)       21.4        17.9        13.4       18.3        15.6
Total fertility rate               7.2         8.0        7.9         6.6        6.4
Infant mort. rate (per thou)    113.0         97.0       91.5       128.5       103.2
Child death rate (per thou)       25.0        21.9        16.3       25.7        17.6
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)         8.8        47.3       70.8
Users (X of married women)       6.0 a       1.0        17.0        4.5         7.1
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 a 100)           100.5       103.5       72.6        89.5       88.3
Per capita supply of:
Calories (X of requirmnts)      98.4        97.1       82.7        90.0       94.2
Proteins (grams per day)        67.7        63.7       50.7        52.6       50.6
Pop. per physician (thou)         13.5         7.9        7.5        39.2        11.3
Pop. per nurse (thou)              1.8         1.2         1.0        3.3         2.6
Pop, per hospital bed (thou)       0.8         0.7        0.6         1.7         1.4
Access to safe water
(X of population):  Total                   15.0       26.0 b      25.2       45.8
Urban                 100.0       85.0 b      61.6        70.5
Rural                   2.0       15.0 b      17.1       35.0



-29 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 5
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
KENYA
Reforence Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Low-Income    Mid-incom
1965       1973    Estimate   S-S Africa    S-S Africa
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        3644.2      4718.8     6467.7
Female (X)                      34.9        34.6       33.6        35.7       37.5
Agriculture tX)                 86.2        83.8       81.0 b      78.9       59.4
Industry CX)                     5.1         5.9        6.8 b       7.6        14.8
Participation rate X):
Total                           38.B        37.2       33.1        38.9       36.2
Melo                            51.1        49.3       44.3        50.4       45.8
Female                          26.7        25.4       22.1        27.5       26.7
Age dependency ratio               1.1         1.1        1.2         1.0         1.0
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                                        4.7
Urban                            4.9         4.7
Rural                                        4.7
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total
Urban
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                  54.0        58.0      100.0        60.1       98.5
Male                   69.0       67.0       104.0       69.6       107.8
Female                 40.0       48.0        97.0       51.3        90.7
Secondary: Total                 4.0         9.0       19.0        12.5       21.0
male                  6.0        12.0       23.0       16.5        28.5
Female                2.0        5.0        16.0        9.0        16.9
Pupi1-Teacher ratio:
Primary                         34.1        32.1       35.E        45.1       42.5
Secondary                       18.1        22.7       24.8        23.0       27.7
Pupils reaching grade 6 (X]                   77.7       50.0        59.6       80.8
INC0ME. CONSUPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)           114.1       151.0      110.9        54.6      530.7
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households                   33.9 c
Highest 20%                                 52.6 c
Lowest 20%                                   3.9 c
Lowest 40%                                  11.7 c
Est. atiolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                                                 150.0 d                689.6
Rural                                                 112.0 d                338.1
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                                                  10.0 d
Rural                                                  55.0 d
Passenger cars/thou pop.           7.6         6.4        5.8 b                 36.0
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)          7.3         7.6       11.3         3.6        7.4
EPO Uuly 1986
NOW 0.6 avrsau am poataIn wue4hd. Coun_ covrag deanda on data avdllabilly tnd ha not uniform. Unlaa otharwls
4i IJ a to any yar between 19U and 1M.: 1973 btuwn 1970 and 193: and moat recat estimate batwaw IS= and Il
a. Raa only. b. 11M. c. Urban only. d. Ion.



30
POpul.tioni 19.7 aiilten (19a6)                                                    MUNKX I
GMP per Capital US$300 (1984)                                                      page 6
NTA: ECONMIC INDICATORS
munt                 _   Annual growth rate (2) at Coutant Price.
(aillieni 088
at e t t         pAtul                                        Xutmanted Arttn
19WS    sbo    198l  ~1982   2983   1984    198I           983q
NATIONAL ACCOUNS
Cross doastic product/A           5,798            5.6    3.7    0.6    2.3    0.4          4.1        6.9
Agriculture                     1.550            1.1    S.9    4.7    4.5   -3.3          1.6        4.5
Industry                        1.027            S.l    4.3   -0.6    1.8    2.2          A.0        5.6
Sertviceo                       2,445            5.5    6.9    3.4    2.6    3.4          4.h        4.9
ConrnMption                       4.862            0.0   -6.4    2.1    0.0    4.8          0.7        4.7
Cross Invet_tnt                   1.074           34.6   -3.5  -21.2   -14.7    2.4         2.5        6.6
rEport. of cNm                    1,474            5.4   -4.2   -0.4   -0.9   -0.8          4.2        1.9
Imports of cGNm                   1.613           10.0  -21.0  -16.5  -19.8   16.3         -7.5        5.0
Crnnu domestic mvIang             1,030           77.7   62.7   -5.6   13.0  -I .8         21.8        1.4
PRICES
CDp deflator (1984-100)                             66 5   73.6   12.5   90.5  100.0    111.0
Rehavep rate (Kuh/US$)                              7.4    9.0   10.9   13.3   14.6         16.4
Share of CDP at Harket Price. (21         Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                   (at constfnt prices)
1980       %165          1990        1975-80   i398085    1986-90
Gross doestic product/a         100.0        100.0       100.0           6.0        1.9        4.7
Agriculture                    27.5         26.7        26.4            3.2       2.8        4.4
Induatry                       18.8         17.7        16.1           7.9        2.0        S.2
Services                       38.6        42.2         43.8            5.4       3.9        4.7
Consumption                      81.4        83.9         78.2           6.2        1.0        *.5
Croam inwestmnt                  30.0         18.5        23.2           12.2      -9.3        6.4
eRporta of CUPS                  28.6        25.4         26.7           1.3       -0.5        4.0
mort. of CNm                     40.0        27.8         28.1           6.4      -10.3        4.4
cr-a  national savings           18.6         16.1        21.8           11.2       7.4        3.9
CA 2 of CDP
C-NTRAlL C0V2Ur FINANICE II'                                                      ZEutioted
1981/82    1982/83     1983/84    1986/85    9i85MR6        1986187
Revenue and Crants                    26.0       24.7        24.1       23.8         24.1         25.8
Revenue                           24.6       23.1        22.8        22.31       22.2          M.2
Crants                             1.4         1.5        1.2         1.7         1.9          2.6
Expenditures                          33.4       29.4        28.6       27.9         28.5         29.2
Recurrent expenditure             23.5        22.2       21.0        20.7        21.5         21.3
Developoent expenditure            9.9        6.2         7.6         7.2         7.0          7.9
Owerall cash deficit                  6.7         3.1         4.2        5.0          6.6          3.5
Average Annual Crowth (2)
(at constant price)
1970-75    1975-80    1980-R5     1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
CIQ growth rate (X)                                  5.5         6.8        2.7         5.3
CMN per capita growth rate (1)                       2.2         1.3       -1.2         1.3
aere  onption growth rate (2)                         -          4.9         -           -
ICOR                                                 6.2         *.8       t0.8         *.7
Narginml savings rate                                O0.0        n.21       0.762       0.241
IMport elasticity                                   -0.2         1.1       -5.4         4.7
a& At market pricee component. sre expressed at factor coat and will not add due to exclusion of
Sndirect tams and subsidie.
lb   ical  r-  ending June 30.
August 19R6



- 31 -
Populatlon:       19.7 mlllion (1984)                                                                ANNEX I
GNP Per Capitat  US9300 (19OM)                                                                       P g  7
KENYAr EXTERNAL TRADE
Aount            - - - - - - - - - - Annual Crowth Rate. (z) - - - - - - - - - -
(million US$                           (At constant 1984 prlcee)
indicator                   at current price.)                    Actual                     Est.       "roaected
1985           1980    1981    1982    1983    1984 '     g 5    1986       1990
EXTERNAL TRADE
Nerchandis  exports              977              3.2    -5.2    -3.3    -1.5    -1.9       6.5      8.5       3.9
Prlmry                        854             -7.3     6.7    13.9    -1.1    -2.0       8.3      8.9       3.3
Manufactures                   123             29.6   -16.3   -16.5    -3.0    -0.8    -3.7        6.4       8.1
Nerchandise Imports            1,462             14.7   -22.8   -12.5   -11.3       7.3     1.2      3.2       5.3
Food                           141             57.6   -48.4    58.4   -10.1      8.8    18.5    -38.4        1.9
petroleum                      468             16.7   -21.5    -6.7   -18.2      0.4      2.5      3.9       1.9
Machinery and equlpment        370             19.0   -22.0   -19.2   -13.4    12.1   -10.0       14.3       7.5
Others                         483              5.0    -7.1    -3.6    -1.3    11.5       3.3     12.1       7.2
PRICES
Export price Index               100.0           57.6    63.2    69.4    83.3   100.0    98.6       83.5    114.2
Import price Index               100.0           50.4    64.4    74.0    94.8   10n.0   118.3       98.1    124.3
Terms of trade Index             100.0          114.4    98.1    93.7    87.9   100.0    83.3       85.1     91.6
Composition of Merchandise
Trade (z)                            Average Annual Growth
(at current prices)                       (at constant prices)
1981     1984     1986       1990      1974-79   198O-84   1984-86   1985-9O
Export.                             100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0          -       -2.2        7.6      4.8
Prim-ry                           87.7      85.0     86.7      84.5          2.1       2.2        8.6      4.4
Manufactures                      12.3      15.0     13.6       15.5       -11.3       -3.4       1.5       7.7
Imports                             100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0          -       -7.3        2.2      4.8
rood                               4.8      11.7      8.2       7.2        -10.4       5.9      -14.5     -7.9
Petroleum                         36.9      30.7     31.4      27.5         -2.8      -8.5        3.2      2.3
MachInery and equipment           27.2      27.8     27.4      29.7          1.7      -7.6        1.4      8.8
Others                            31.2      29.8     33.1       35.5          -        0.9        7.6      8.1
Directlon of Trade
Share of trade with               Share of trade with              Share of trade with capital
industrial countries (2)          developing countries (X)            surplus oil exporters (X)
1979     1981     1985            1979      1981     1985            1979      1981       1985
Exports           54.4      42.1     59.7            34.0      45.0     38.3             1.8       2.3        2.0
lmports           67.4      57.3     56.7            10.0      8.2      17.4           20.3       33.5      25.9
August 1986



-32-
Papulatlent  19.7 Siliea (1984)                                                                                                                             mm  2
uP par Cnpitat  WuD00 (1954)                                                                                                                                pa  a
tUtas  Mg           oi flfSITm.  rmnui   CAPITa LID A DUT
Siica.I a13 at aurrant prrla)
Actual                                   lat.                              PrOleted
980       191         IH2       1983        1954        3935        1916         1937        1958        3959       190
IALAIICL OF IPThhNT
Sxpart. of macia ad carie.               2 038       3 747      1.6I6       1.514       1 834      3.52b       1 9.0          966       2 322      2 303       2 592
maporta of: 'od.IIJ                                -        3fl                                    942       TU           1U[           n         aNr          U
AFaru et  _                  r~~~~~~~~.zft  '1.os     934         *25      T 1             2       T29T                      1.36l
Export oft aaicea                        795         b97        6882        589         600       5S8          S21           690        760         837         90
I-acrts of good. and  aerylcaa           3 070      2.584       2.161       1.761       1.954      1.661       2.223         2.330      2.512       2 786       3.105
Iapcrta t o  d            -            2ood       2.148       1.721       1.396      1.552       1.484       If.73         1.786      1,921 3      ,I T      2.480
Iaparta of manic..                       437        436         440         lb?        432         397         495           544        591         619        85
(of ublcha  interat)                  (132)      C126)       (14D)       (271)      (203)       (208)       (202)         (206)      (208)       (209)      (213)
Traalers (COt)                             140          95         b7         315         147         149         95           300         165        1I0         115
Currnt Account Balance                    -892       -743        -477        -134        -203       -20b        -223          -264        -215       -353        -398
itrac  ttwae wat toot)                      78          60         60          78          40         40          4S            5D          50         55          55
Public HLT  loaw  (not)                    448         275        217          84         150         125        234           258         249        348         370
Cra. diaburnamats ab2                               437         397         262         433        373         *S6           418        IR6         590         *10
apay_naa                                 Lis        862         380         373        231         253         222           220        237         244        240
IkV Cradtt (nat)                            69          27        147          9b        -11          56         -92           -38        -55         -n          -70
ftrcha"a                                  78         315        165         142         *7         125           -            28         19          19           -
aepurchases                                9           a         19          46          59         69          92            36         74          96          70
Other capital (Met) f                       148        131          33         45          26          -8         76            52          56         71          93
Ceaq   it Cram. Reaccom                   -153        -250        -20         165           2           7         40            38          15         42          S0
Maaurandumt.,
GCra  reservas at yeara and              500         250        230         396         398        405         441           479        498         536         588
bar   am aee aIports                      10           b          7          10          1I          9          10            10          9           9           9
curreat accent deftic  ma 2 of CDP
locluding  eftetal Sants /b           12.8       11.1         7.7         2.3        3.4         3.6         3.1           3.3        1.2         3.5        3.5
Excluding offieal grant. Is           14.2       12.3         9.0         4.3        5.9         b.1         4.5          4.3         4.9         4.6        4.5
ninAL CAPITAL An DOM
Crm. Disbarsemets
offinlal granta Id                     123          82         80         125         ISO        145
Coamaasnatl loan                       178         149        191          92         204        253
Bilateral-LIKC                       r6         T04          35         44         T91         10
Ulaterral-OPC                         -           8           6           4         3B          58
ID8                                  72          15          85         20          36          52
Ohehr                                 41         22          15          24         39          39
aoDCOn-caalsni  lInan                  333        288         20         171        229         125
Offical espane  crat                  16         31          16          51          17         26
7UD                                   44         59          85          97        128          70
Ohatr aultilateral                    16         15          25           8          18         25
Private_arca                         307         163         n0          t3         64           1
Public IL? low  - total               562         437        397         262        431         378
Debt Oustaandinx an  DMabourd          2.216      2.316      2LA28       2.393       2.175       3.056
Offictl.-source                   1305       1.406       1.624       1.748      2,138       2.412
Private-ecurce                       911        910         804        645         738         644
Undiabursed Deat                     1.388      1.254       1.400       1,244      1.272       1.035
Debt SarviCa
retAI paymnta                       249         287         326        305         482         527
(Of flleb:  interat)             (Bi2)       (326)       C46)       (l27)       (201)       (20)
Payantalaeport racipta              12.2        38.4       20.2       20.1        29.5        34.0
Avaraae intarae_   rate                5.9         5.4        6.0         5.3         5.2        5.2
/a  Inched.. abort-tam capitalt. camrcial ba  -a nnt faratn paltion. erro    nd e  daamto   ad valuatoun adjusaent.
$b  tnclm       official pgrant  -abcva the Ua-  am an It_m contribating to tho  dateramLatico of tOm current accout dafict.
_c Treatiq official grants a  a -belr th. lnt_  Lt   hich coatriutae  to tOh  finKanci  of t. current aceAnt daftcet.
d  -Caurament trnmfar realpc-C  in tb- balanca of paymq te.
Augt 198



-33                                       ANNEX 1I
Page 1 of 2
T8E STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN KYN A
A. Stcteuent of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1986
USS Million
Loan or                                                             Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit t    Year   Borrower   Purpose                              Bank 1/   IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-six (36) Loans, of which six were cancelled, twenty-eight
(28) Credits and two (2) Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed*        561.45    360.06
1449       1977    Kenya     Burs Irrigation Settlement             31.00                8.31
750       1978    Kenya     Small Scale Industry                               7.67     2.76
1550       1978    Kenya     Second Urban                           25.00               21.23
1637       1979    Kenya     Rural Water Supply                     20.00               1R.20
1684       1979    Kenya     Highway Sector                         90.00                5.74
914       1979    Kenya     SmalIholder Coffee Improvement                    27.00    22.02
959       1980    Kenya     Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                     12.00     6.74
962       1980    Kenya     Baringo Semi-Arid Areas                            4.00     1.08
1799       1980    Kenya     Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)       40.0n 2/             2.32
1817       1980    IDB       Fourth Industrial Oev. Bank            30.00               11.36
1045       1980    Kenya     Export Promotion Technical Asst.                  4.50      3.74
1051       1980    Kenya     Fisheries                                         6.50      6.33
1107       1981    Kenya     Fifth Education                                  40.00    29.16
1976       1981    Kenya     Railway                                5R.00               10.4n
1995       1981    Kenya     Fourth Agriculture                     25.n0                6.29
2065       1982    Kenya     Petroleum Exploration                   4.0n                0.55
(2098      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III 3l                        21.50               21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III                                      16.00     6.19
1237       1982    Kenya     Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3/                      22.00    2n.33
1238       1982    Kenya     Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 3/                             23.00    13.75
2155       1982    Kenya     Second Telecommunications              44.70               18.26
1277       1983    Kenya     Agric. Technical Assistance 3;                    6.00      2.23
2237       1983    Kenya     Olkaria Geothermal Expansion           12.00        -       6.70
1387       1983    Kenya     National Extension 3/                             15.00    10.27
(2319      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns                         7.00                6.98
(1390      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns 3/                               22.00    15.21
2359       1984    Kenya     Kiambere Hydroelectric                 95.00               62.05
(2409      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                  50.00              (49.88
(F017      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                            40.00   (43.02
1486       1984    Kenya     Geothermal Exploration                           24.50    26.01
1566       1985    Kenya     Water Engineering 3/                               6.no     4.21
2574       1985    Kenya     Third Telecommunications 4/           32.60                32.fiO
1673       1986    Kenya     Sixth Education                                  37.50    37.50
1675       1986    Kenya     Petroleum Explor. Tech. Assist.                   6.00      6.00
Total                               1,147.25    679.74   538.91
of which has been repaid            136.20      7.60
Total now outstanding               1,011.05    672.l4
Amount sold                  11.81
of which has been repaid  11.81        .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                  967.10    632.49
TOTAL undisbursed                               282.38    256.53   538.91
*   In addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 1n loans totalling USS244.8 million
which were extended for the development of common services (railways, ports.
telecommunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
states of the former East African Community (EAC).
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.
/ Not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
-             ~~~~Page 2 of 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
June 30, 19R6
Fiscal Year  Obligor                       Type of Business        Amount in USS Million
LoaUi   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,  Kenya Hotel Properties       Hotels                    5.2     0.7      5.9
and 1973
1970, 1974,  Pan African Paper Mills      Pulp and Paper           22.2     6.3     28.5
1977, 1979
and 1981
1972         Tourism Promotion            Hotels                    2.4     -1/      2.4
Services
1976         Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                   6.3     2.R      9.1
1977         Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market             2.0     -        2.0
1980         Development Finance          Development Finance      4.7      1.3      6.0
Company of Kenya Ltd.
1981         Kenya Commercial Finance    Honey & Capital Market  5.0        -        5.0
1982         Bamburi Portland             Cement & Construction   4.4       -        4.4
Cement Co., Ltd.             Material
1982         Diamond Trust of Kenya       Money & Capital Market  -         0.8      0.8
Limited
1982         Industrial Promotion         Money & Capital Market  -         0.6      n.6
Services (Kenya) Ltd.
1983         Tetra Pak Converters         Pulp & Paper Products   2.2       0.3      2.5
Limited
1984         Leather Industries of        Tanning                   1.9     0.h;     2.5
Kenya Limited
1984         Madhu Paper International   Pulp & Paper Products  37.1        2.0     39.1
Limited
1985         Equatorial Beach             Tourism                   3.7     -        3.7
Properties
1985         0i'. Crop Development Ltd.                            9.5      1.4     10.9
Total Gross Commitments                             106.6    16.8    123.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 62.6     3.7      66.3
Total Commitments now held by IFC                    44.9    13.1      57.1
Total Undisbursed                                    12.2     0.8      13.1
I/ $44,937.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
Second Small Scale Industry Project
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
'a) Time taken by the country with Bank
Group assistance to prepare the project:       9 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project         :     Kenya Industrial
Estates (KIE)
(c)  First presentation to Bank                     A repeater project
which evolved out
of the first Small-
Scale Industry
Project, closing
September 30, 1986
(d) Completion of negotiations               :      September 1985
Ce)  Planned date of effectiveness           :      February 1987
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The following are conditions of the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement:
(a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by the
Borrower and KIE, respectively; and
(b) a person with qualifications satisfactory to the Association
has been appointed head of KIE's entrepreneur credit
evaluation section;
(c) a qualified counterpart staff member to KIE's Finance
Manager has been recruited;
(d) deputy managers for KIE's Entrepreneur Training and
Supervision Departments have been appointed;
(e) KIE has implemented the proposals of its Financial
Restructuring Paper except those relating to repayment of
loans to ICDC and the Borrower; and
(f) the Special Account has been opened.






