Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11437
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1738-KE)
DECEMBER 16, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
EDI          -     Economic Development Institute
GTZ          -     Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICDC         -     Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
KFW          -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaurbau
KIE          -     Kenya Industrial Estates
NORAD        -     Norwegian Agency for Development
PCR          -     Project Completion Report
PPAR         -     Project Performance Audit Report
SDR          -     Standard Drawing Rights
SSI          -     Small-Scale Industry
UNIDO        -     United Nations Industrial Development Organization
IDA          -     International Development Association
TA           -     Technical Assistance
KSh          -     Kenyan Shilling
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenyan Shilling (KSh)
Calendar 1989             Calendar 1990             Calendar 1991
US$1.00           20.57                     22.91                     27.51
FLSCAL YEAR
KIE: July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wa&hington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Goneral
Operations Evaluaton                                                   December 16, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Kenya
Industrial Estates Small-Scale
Industry Project (Credit 1738-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Kenya Industrial Estates
Small-Scale Industry Project (Credit 1738-KE) - Project Completion Report" prepared by the Eastern
Africa Department, Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project did not achieve its major objectives. Lending to small scale enterprises
fell considerably short of targets and the financial intermediation capabilities of Kenya Industrial Estates
(KIE) were not strengthened. As a consequence, 73% of the original credit of USS 6 million was
canceled. Overall, the project is rated unsatisfactory and IDA performance is considered deficient. No
agreement about the future role of KIE has been reached.
The first Small Scale Industry (SSI) Project (Credit 750-KE) had failed. In designing
this second SSI project, IDA staff attempted to address KIE's institutional weakness with introduction
of new institutional guidelines, improvements in debt collection, financial restructuring, staff training,
and technical assistance. However, this reform program did not turn the institution around. KIE's lack
of autonomy remained a fundamental issue and KIE leadership and management continued to be weak.
No audit is planned since the first Small Scale Industry Project has already been
audited and the attached Project Completion Report is adequate. However, the restructuring of KIE
remains a priority.
Attachment
This docunent has  re tricted distribution and nmy be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Itrs contents
nmy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1783-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paye No.
PREFACE .................................................. X
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ......................................                                                             iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                                                 .......           1
Project Identity   .........................................                                                   I
Background ............................................                                                        1
Project Objectives and Description  .............................                                              2
Project Design and Organization  ..............................                                                2
Project Implementation  ....................................                                                   3
Project Results ..........................................                                                     4
Institutional Performance ....................................                                                 4
Sustainability ...........................................                                                     6 
IDA's Performance  .......................................                                                     6
Borrower's Performance   ...................................                                                   6
Project Relationship   ......................................                                                  7
Project Documentation and Data  ..............................                                                 7
Findings and Lessons Learned   ...............................                                                 7
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S   SPECTIE .....                                                               9
PART  m:  STATISlCAL   NFO RMATION   ...........................                                                        13
Related Bank Loans  ...........                        ...........................                           13
Project Timetable  ........................................                                                   14
Credit Disbursement ......................................                                                   14
Project Implementation  ....................................                                                  15
Project Costs and Financing  .................................                                                15
Project Results ..........................................                                                    16
Status of Covenants   ......................................                                                  17
Use of Bank Resources   ....................................                                                  18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1738-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kenya Industrial Estates Second
Small-Scale Industry Project in Kenya, for which Credit 1738-KE in the amount of SDR 5.8 million
(US$6 million) was approved on October 21, 1986. The uncommitted balance of the credit amounting
to SDR 4.6 million was canceled on March 20, 1991 in application of Section 6.03 of the General
Conditions. The last disbursement was in December 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of the
Eastern Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Kenya Industrial Estates, on behalf of the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in September 1991 and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the KIE; and internal Bank memoranda. Account was also taken
of the PPAR (# 9191) which included a review of the earlier credit (# 750-KE) extended to KIE.



I



- Ill -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1738-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. KIE was established in 1967 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) in an effort to strengthen Government's small-scale
industry (SSI) development programs. It became an independent parastatal in 1977 and embarked on an
ambitious nationwide program of industrial estate construction and management, entrepreneur
development and providing loans to small-scale industries. IDA made its first credit to KIE (# 750-KE)
in 1977 but the experience was disappointing. Later, under pressure from the Government, KIE took
a number of significant steps to strengthen its institutional capabilities which persuaded IDA to make a
second credit (# 1738-KE) to Kenya in 1986 for SSI development through KIE. This credit was in the
amount of US$6.0 million, of which US$5.0 million was for the credit component and US$1.0 million
for the technical assistance component.
2.    Qbjectives. The main objectives of the project were to: (i) provide resources to small-scale
enterprises with good potential for income generation and job-creation at a relatively low cost; (ii) help
develop the capabilities of small-scale entrepreneurs, mainly Africans, by strengthening KIE's capability
to provide intensive entrepreneur training, project supervision and technical assistance; (iii) transform KIE
into a more efficient channel for SSI lending by strengthening its financial base and rationalizing its
lending and industrial estate activities (Part I, para 3.01).
3.    Implementation Experience. The credit became effective in April 1987. Project implementation
got off to a slow start in September 1987 and stayed that way up to the last date for sub-project
submission i.e. December 31, 1989. During this period, disbursements amounting to only US$0.83
million were made for 15 sub-projects. These figures are way below those estimated at appraisal (US$2.4
million for 200 sub-projects). The main reasons for the slow commitment appear to be: (a) the slow pace
of implementation of the TA component, contributing also in part to (b) the poor quality of appraisal
reports submitted to IDA for approval; (c) depreciation of the Kenyan shilling; and (d) IDA's suggestions
to KIE to slow down lending and concentrate on improving the overall quality of its portfolio and
collections of overdues which were unacceptably high. The disbursement of the TA component amounted
to US$0.46 million, as against the allocation of US$1.0 million. The TA component was used for
financing: (i) salary payments of the expatriate Finance Manager and the Deputy Training Manager; (ii)
computerization study and installation of hardware and software in KIE; and (iii) an EDI seminar. This
component could not be fully utilized because of substantially delayed (about 3 years) recruitment of the
technical experts even though their recruitment was originally a condition of effectiveness, and due to
cancellation of the credit. Total disbursements under the project were US$1.6 million.
4.    IDA did not agree to KIE's request to extend the date of sub-project submission (December 31,
1989) for the reason that, in IDA's opinion, the institutional and financial problems afflicting KIE were



- lv -
of such proportions that IDA did not see KIE evolving, as originally envisaged, into a viable lending
institution for SSIs and that commitment of additional IDA funds for sub-loans through it would be
counter-productive. Instead, IDA recommended that KIE limit its objective to non-financial assistance
to SSIs (para. 7 below). Disbursements for sub-loans already approved, as well as for the commitments
pertaining to the 2-year contract of the Entrepreneur Training Adviser (under the Technical Assistance
component), however, were allowed to be continued till December 1991. On March 20, 1991, the
uncommitted amount of the credit SDR 4.6 million representing 73% of the credit was canceled (Part I,
paras. 5.01-5.04).
5.     Results.  Of the fifteen sub-projects financed, five are reported by KIE to be doing well,
operating at 60-75% capacity; five are rated as fair; four are reported to be experiencing operational and
management problems; and one has not yet started operations. Most sub-projects are operating at
between 50% and 75% capacity. As of June 30, 1991, nine of these sub-projects had arrears of over six
months; these include three sub-projects reported by KIE to be doing well and four rated as fair. Over
62% of the portfolio financed under the project was affected by arrears of over six months. According
to information furnished by KIE, the financial rates of return of most sub-projects financed under the
credit are 20% or more, while the economic rates of return of eleven sub-projects are 25% or more.
However, these figures are not corroborated by the operational and repayment record of the sub-projects.
(Part 1, para 6.01). By December 1989, the overall situation was unsatisfactory in two main respects.
Firstly, KIE's financial condition had badly deteriorated with (a) arrears over 3 months affecting over 60
percent of all outstanding loans (and accounting for over a third of the amount outstanding), and (b) the
possibility that fixed deposits which accounted for about 85 percent of its share capital may not be
recoverable from troubled financial institutions. Secondly, management appeared to be unable to
effectively remedy the above situation or to improve its own institutional capabilities (through appointing
technical advisors in time, or making appropriate organizational changes).
6.     Altogether, the objectives of the project were inadequately met. Firstly, resources were provided
to a very small number of (comparatively large-sized) SSIs; secondly, only partial success was achieved
in entrepreneur training; and, finally, while KIE's lending and industrial estate activities were rationalized
and financial base strengthened, KIE did not become a more efficient channel for SSI lending because
of lack of commitment on the part of the management and due to the influence of non-economic factors
in lending decisions.
7.     Sustainability. From the outset of this project, KIE's prospects of becoming a sustainable
institution have been minimal. Sustainability could not be achieved because of the underlying mismatch
of the stated and actual objectives of the Government; the Government's and KIE's commitment to the
objectives agreed at appraisal were not demonstrated in practice. Further, KIE's mandate was overly
ambitious and, as a parastatal, its management gave priority to achievement of non-commercial objectives,
rather than to IDA's recommendations of ensuring professional soundness of its lending decisions. For
these reasons, in the context of a separate Financial Parastatals Technical Assistance Project (approved
by IDA in 1990), IDA advised the Government to discontinue KIE's lending activities, and to limit KIE
to providing other services to small enterprises (Part I, para 8.01).
8.     Findings and Lessons learned. The project proved to be a failure. Due to its project appraisal
weaknesses, KIE was able to commit funds under the credit for only 15 sub-projects. Although KIE was
able to improve its collection performance, the quality of the loan portfolio continued to deteriorate.
KIE's financial position also became precarious due to investment of substantial funds with weak financial
institutions which subsequently went into liquidation. KIE management was either unable or unwilling



v -
to take corrective measures. The main reasons for the failure of the project were as follows. Firstly,
the objectives were too ambitious for KIE to achieve; KIE did not have the capability or the potential to
be an efficient channel for SSI lending and at the same time to be a provider of intensive entrepreneur
training and technical assistance to SSIs. The position was made more difficult by the government giving
KIE a starting portfolio of troubled projects without the financial or other support to resolve their
problems. Secondly, KIE's management did not generate the needed professional commitment and
capability to override non-commercial considerations in trying to accomplish the objectives agreed with
IDA (Part I, para 13.01). Thirdly, the design of the project was flawed in as much as IDA continued
to support KIE's multifarious activities, viz., lending to SSIs, industrial estate construction, and
entrepreneur development, despite KIE's weak management capability. Fourthly, IDA's supervision was
inadequate, and IDA was unwilling to enforce key conditions of effectiveness that might have contributed
to the success of the project.
9.     The lessons of experience are as follows. Firstly, project appraisal should start with an effective
assessment of the institution's "enabling environment".  If, as in this case, past experience has
demonstrated that such environment is unfavorable to the project objectives (as observed under the earlier
KIE project), the Bank group should not finance a follow up operation. Secondly, setting of project
objectives should be related to the capabilities of the implementing agency. However, if these capabilities
are too weak for the institution to achieve essential project objectives, again, the Bank group should
refrain from lending. Thirdly, the Bank Group should devote greater time and effort to making a realistic
assessment of the commitment of the beneficiary to the objectives of the project. Finally, if despite all
the above, the Bank proceeds with a loan/credit, it should be based on a careful review of the risks, and
on well designed measures to ensure considerable supervision to buttress the limited implementation
capacity and to ensure compliance with covenants in legal agreements (Part I, para 13.02).



I
I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1738-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name           KIE Second Small-Scale Industry Project
Credit No.     1738-KE
RVP Unit       Africa Region
Country        Kenya
Sector         Industry
Sub-sector     Small-Scale Industry
2.    Background
2.01         The Government's objectives for the manufacturing sector, at the time of the appraisal
of this project, included accelerated employment creation, provision of a larger share of factor payments
for lower income groups in areas outside Nairobi, increased use of local inputs, emphasis on
rehabilitation and expansion, production of inexpensive consumer goods, and the development of a
significant small-scale enterprise sector.
2.02         The development of small-scale industry (SSI) was seen as an effort to reverse past
sectoral policies under which high effective protection resulted in little employment creation and the high
cost products of the import substitution enterprises, produced with imported materials, were not available
to the low-income consumers. Small-scale industrial development was seen as contributing to Kenya's
short-term strategy of reducing pressure on balance of payments during the adjustment process, by
production of largely domestic resource-based import substitutes, and providing employment to persons
displaced from other sub-sectors. Broadening of the entrepreneurial class through increased African
participation was expected to provide an effective antidote to potential social unrest associated with the
adjustment process.
2.03         The increased emphasis on small-scale industrial development reflected in the
Government's Five Year Plan, current at the time, appeared to be an appropriate strategy for pursuing
Government's longer-term objectives. The Kenya Industrial Estates Limited (KIE) which was the
Government's principal tool for SSI development, had received in 1978 an IDA Credit of US$10 million
equivalent to support its financing, entrepreneur development and technical assistance activities in the
sector. However, IDA's experience with this project (SSI I Project) was disappointing in that KIE was
unable to evolve into a viable institution due to excessive zeal for promotion and growth at the cost of
project quality and scant regard for arrears collection, project supervision or financial viability. Later
on, it appears, KIE, with the active encouragement of the Government and IDA, altered its attitudes and,



-2-
based merely on the initiation of some steps which promised to re-orient and strengthen KIE, IDA felt
comfortable with going ahead with a second credit (SSI II) to assist SSIs through KIE.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01          Project Objectives. The main objectives of the project were to: (i) provide resources to
small-scale enterprises with good potential for income generation and job-creation at a relatively low cost;
(ii) help develop the capabilities of small-scale entrepreneurs, mainly Africans, by strengthening KIE's
capability to provide intensive entrepreneur training, project supervision and technical assistance; (iii)
make KIE a more efficient channel for SSI lending by strengthening its financial base and rationalizing
its lending and industrial estate activities; and (iv) through the dialogue with IDA, continue the process
of re-orientation and improvement which KIE had initiated in the previous 18 modths. Though laudable,
the objectives were too ambitious for KIE to achieve.
3.02          Proiect Description. The project aimed at supporting the Government's program of
assisting SSIs through the following components:
(a)    a credit component of US$5.0 million, representing 83% of the IDA credit, in the form
of a line of credit to KIE for onlending to about (mainly smaller sized) 200 SSIs for plant
and equipment, machinery, and permanent working capital; and
(b)    a technical assistance component of US$1.0 million to finance: (i) two Deputy Managers
for the new entrepreneur training and supervision functions; (ii) continuation of the
Finance Manager position; (iii) development costs for the entrepreneur training program;
and (iv) a survey to identify areas where SSIs could competitively provide intermediate
inputs to medium- and large-scale industry.
4.     Project Design and Organization
4.01          The implementation experience of the SSI I Project (# 750-KE) had revealed a number
of operational and institutional weaknesses in providing assistance to SSIs in Kenya, most of which were
attributable to KIE's inability to carry out effectively the multifarious responsibilities entrusted to it i.e.,
channelling credit to SSIs as a financial intermediary, establishing industrial estates in various parts of
the country, and providing technical assistance and entrepreneurial training to SSIs. Given KIE's
weaknesses and the ambitious agenda entrusted to it, the first SSI project proved to be a failure (Para
4.09, PPAR # 9191 dated December 17, 1990). In designing the SSI II project (# 1738-KE), IDA staff
attempted to address KIE's institutional weaknesses by insisting on a new Policy Statement and Guidelines
for Operations, improvement in debt collection performance, formulation of a comprehensive financial
restructuring program, improvement in staff training in project appraisal and supervision, and
strengthening of entrepreneur development programs. Assurances were also obtained regarding sharp
reduction of its industrial estate development program and disposal of its Technical Service Centers,
which had been incurring losses. To assist in the implementation of the above program, a technical
assistance component was included in the project to fund expatriate positions for financial management,
project supervision, and entrepreneur training.



4.02         Subsequent events, however, demonstrated that the project design was flawed, just as the
previous one was. Given the background of politicized decision making in financing projects and
collection of overdues, coupled with KIE's continued lack of capability to develop into an effective and
professional financial intermediary, IDA should have made alternative arrangements for providing
financial assistance to SSIs, leaving KIE to concentrate on promotion, technical assistance and
entrepreneur training.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01          Credit Component. The credit became effective in April 1987. Project implementation
got off to a slow start in September 1987 and stayed that way up to the date for sub-project submission
(December 31, 1989), stipulated in legal agreements. During this period, 19 sub-projects, 12 under the
free limit of US$75,000 and 7 above the limit, were committed under the credit. Of these, four were
canceled and disbursements amounting to US$0.83 million were made for 15 sub-projects. These figures
are way below those estimated at appraisal (US$ million and 200 sub-projects). The sub-projects financed
under the credit were in traditional sectors of chemicals (33% of the amount), printing (23%), food
processing (18%), wood working (8%) and service industries (18%). Most of the enterprises were
located in Nairobi (40%), followed by Nakuru (20%), Eldoret (13%); the remaining 27% were located
in small rural towns. Over 94% of IDA financing went to sub-projects with investment costs of over K
Sh 1.0 million. Most sub-projects experienced implementation delays from 11 weeks to 184 weeks due
to shortage of raw materials, lack of working capital finance, poor management capabilities of the
sponsors and problems of power supply in rural areas.
5.02         The main reasons for the slow commitment appear to be: (a) the poor quality of appraisal
reports submitted to IDA for approval under the credit regarding which IDA sought a number of
clarifications which were often not readily provided by KIE; (b) depreciation of the Kenyan shilling; (c)
IDA's suggestions to KIE in 1988 to slow down lending and concentrate on improving the overall quality
of its portfolio and collections of overdues which were unacceptably high; and (d) delayed arrival of
experts under the technical assistance component (para. 5.03 below).
5.03         Technical Assistance Component.  The commitment and disbursement of the TA
component amounted to US$ 0.46 m, as against the allocation of US$1.0 million. The component was
used for financing: (a) salary payments of the expatriate Finance Manager and the Deputy Training
Manager; (b) computerization study and installation of hardware and software in KIE; and (c) an EDI
seminar. This component could not be fully utilized because of (i) substantial delay (about 3 years) in
recruitment of the technical experts even though their recruitment was originally a condition of credit
effectiveness, and (ii) cancellation of the credit.
5.04         Credit Cancellation. IDA did not agree to KIE's request to extend, from December 31,
1989 to December 31, 1992, the date of sub-project submission. IDA also felt that the institutional and
financial problems afflicting KIE were of such enormous proportions that IDA did not see KIE evolving
into a viable lending institution for SSIs and that commitment of additional IDA funds for sub-loans
through it would be counter-productive. Disbursements for sub-loans already approved, as well as for
the commitments pertaining to the 2-year contract of the Entrepreneur Training Adviser (under the
Technical Assistance component), however, continued until December 1991. On March 20, 1991, the
uncommitted amount of the credit SDR 4.6 million representing 73% of the credit was canceled.



-4-
6.     Project Results
6.01          Of the fifteen sub-projects financed, five are reported to be doing well, operating at 60-
75% capacity; five are rated as fair; four are reported to be experiencing operational and management
problems; and one has not yet started operations. Most sub-projects are operating at between 50% and
75% capacity. As of June 30, 1991, nine of these sub-projects had arrears of over six months; these
include three sub-projects reported by KIE to be doing well and four rated as fair. Over 62% of the
portfolio financed under Credit-1738 was affected by arrears of over six months.  According to
information furnished by KIE, the financial rates of return of most sub-projects financed under the credit
are 20% or more, while the economic rates of return of eleven sub-projects are 25% or more. However,
these figures are not corroborated by the operational and repayment record of the sub-projects. By
December 1989, the overall situation was unsatisfactory in two main respects. Firstly, the deterioration
of KIE's financial condition where arrears over 3 months affected over 60 percent of all outstanding loans
(and accounted for over a third of the amount outstanding), and with the possibility that fixed deposits
which accounted for about 85 percent of its share capital may not be recoverable from troubled financial
institutions. Secondly, the inability of the management to effectively remedy the above situation or to
improve its own institutional capabilities (through appointing technical advisors in time or making
appropriate organizational changes).
6.02          The objectives of the project were inadequately met. Firstly, resources were provided
to a very small number of (comparatively large-sized) SSIs; secondly, only partial success was achieved
in entrepreneur training; and, finally, while KIE's lending and industrial estate activities were
rationalized, it did not become a more efficient channel for SSI lending because of lack of commitment
on the part of the management and due to use of non-commercial considerations in its lending decisions.
7.    Institutional Performance
7.01          KIE's performance under the first project (750-KE) had been disappointing. It was
expected to transform itself from an industrial estate promoting and managing agency into a viable
finarTcial intermediary for small scale industries as well a to play a critical role in providing technical
assistance and entrepreneur training to SSIs.  KIE management and staff did not have financial
background and they focussed on promotion, portfolio growth and industrial estate activities
indiscriminately without any appreciation of their financial implications. Although IDA, UNIDO and a
number of bilaterals provided considerable technical assistance to KIE during the early years to improve
its operational and management capabilities, KIE did not measure up to the effort required to fulfil these
high expectations. The track record of utilization of the credit in the first SSI project was also poor. In
spite of a one year extension of the sub-project submission date for the SSI I project, KIE was able to
draw down only about US$4.0 million out of the US$8.75 million allocated for sub-projects. About
US$4.9 million of the uncommitted amount was canceled as KIE was perceived to be in deep financial
trouble due to mounting arrears, poor state of its loan portfolio, laxity in entrepreneur selection and debt
collections, and continuous losses despite large grants and subsidies. (A detailed evaluation of KIE's
performance under the first credit is provided in PPAR # 9191, dated December 17, 1990).
7.02          It appears that, in view of the cancellation of Credit 750-KE, and prospects of shrinking
aid from bilateral sources, the Kenya Government pressed KIE to set its house in order and seek IDA
assistance to improve its performance. Given this scenario, the appraisal report notes, KIE altered its
attitude and took a number of significant steps to strengthen itself. These included a new Policy



Statement and Guidelines for Operations, improved debt collections, formulation of a comprehensive
financial restructuring program and commitment to improve staff training in project appraisal and
supervision, and an entrepreneur development program. As regards its industrial estate development
program, KIE sharply reduced its new construction program and agreed to undertake such activity in the
future only if appraised to be financially viable; it also agreed to sell or lease its Technical Service
Centers, which had over the years been incurring losses. With these improvements already in place or
about to be undertaken, IDA considered a second credit (# 1738-KE) to KIE justified in support of the
Government's program of SSI development.
7.03          In keeping with the assurances given to IDA, KIE took the following actions to strengthen
its institutional capabilities: (a) internal structure was reorganized (though inadequately) with a view to
decentralizing operations and improving collections; (b) a Receivership Department was established to
handle cases of chronic defaulters; (c) an award scheme was instituted to reward staff having the best
collection performance; (d) interest rates, shed rentals and other fees were increased; and (e) a Deputy
Manager of Training was appointed. However, most of these actions were taken as late as 1989. Even
at this late stage, KIE had not appointed an expert to provide on the job training to staff in project
appraisal and supervision and a Deputy Manager for Supervision. These delays were partly due to KIE's
lack of commitment and to lack of management effectiveness in appointment of experts (and consequential
delays in their appointment) to be financed from the TA component. KIE could not attract appropriate
Kenyan professionals due to not being authorized to offer competitive salaries to high caliber staff.
7.04          On the operational side, KIE's overall lending activities slowed down significantly; loan
approvals declined from K Sh 75-81 million range in FY86-88 to K Sh 47 million in FY89 but recovered
slightly to K Sh 55 million in FY90 (Annex 1). The main reasons for the slow-down were staffing
problems in KIE, and IDA's suggestion to concentrate on debt collection. Annex III provides information
on collection performance during FY86-FY90. The improved collection performance since 1986 (except
in 1987), however, did not prevent further deterioration in KIE's overall portfolio due to accumulation
of arrears. As of June 30, 1989, over 60% of all outstanding loans by number and about 79 % of the loan
portfolio were affected by arrears of over 3 months (as against 56% and 76% respectively at the end of
FY88) and these arrears of principal and interest amounted to over K Sh 155 million, accounting for 34%
of total outstanding (Annex II). Provisions for bad and doubtful debts, as of June 30, 1989, amounted
to K Sh 62 million. The major reasons for continuing high percentage of non-performing loans were
KIE's reluctance to start legal action against borrowers who were politically important persons, and its
inadequate emphasis on supervision of the portfolio.
7.05          Because of the indiscriminate promotional work undertaken by KIE over the years, it has
depended continuously on subsidies and grants from the Government and the bilateral donors. It incurred
losses annually for most of the early 1980's, and only nominal profits during the latter 1980's.
However, these profits are illusory as (i) incomes were recorded on "accrual" basis instead of
"realization" basis, (ii) the methodology of provisioning for bad debts was not found acceptable by the
auditors, and (iii) the KIE had access to concessional finance from another donor. Apart from the
deterioration in the quality of its portfolio, KIE's financial position was also adversely affected by the
poor choice of financial institutions for investing its surplus funds. About K Sh 87 million, representing
over 85% of KIE's share capital and about 18% of its net worth, was invested in institutions which later
either went under receivership or were candidates for liquidation. KIE's external auditors qualified their
report on FY89 accounts concerning the inclusion among KIE's assets of this amount. In view of these
financial and institutional problems, and lack of KIE's seriousness in coming to grips with them, IDA
informed KIE in October 1989 (as authorized by Section 6.03 of the General Conditions) that it was not



- 6 -
inclined to extend the date for submission of sub-projects beyond December 31, 1989, unless a
substantive restructuring of its operations was undertaken. This did not come about and IDA canceled
the uncommitted amount of the credit (SDR 4.6 million) in March 1991, acknowledging that there was
no way of transforming KIE into a viable institution, given the environment and the framework in which
it operated.
8.    Sustainability
8.01          Despite the justification provided in the Staff Appraisal Report for the SSI II project,
KIE's prospects of becoming a sustainable institution have been minimal right from the outset of the
project. Sustainability could not be achieved because of the mismatch in the stated and actual objectives
of the Government; the Government's and KIE's commitment to the objectives agreed at appraisal were
not demonstrated in practice. Further, KIE's mandate was overly ambitious and as a parastatal its
management gave priority to achievement of non-commercial objectives rather than to IDA's
recommendations of ensuring professional soundness of its lending decisions. For these reasons, in the
context of a separate Financial Parastatals Technical Assistance Project (approved by IDA in 1990), IDA
advised the Government to discontinue KIE's lending activities, and to limit KIE to providing other
services to small enterprises.
9.    IDA's Performance
9.01          IDA provided considerable assistance to KIE, both during the project identification and
preparation stage and during the appraisal process, with a view to accelerating the pace of reforms KIE
had committed to carry out to improve its effectiveness.  However, given KIE's limited project
implementation capabilities and the heavy reform agenda, and poor performance under the project, IDA
should have carefully reviewed its plans to assist KIE, and subsequently should have at least enforced the
conditions of effectiveness. Thereafter, IDA should have supervised the project more frequently and
intensively and brought to the attention of the Government the perceived erosion of commitment on the
part of the management to carry through the reforms; but only two one-man missions visited KIE during
1988-89. However, it is recognized that, on the Bank side, there had been a considerable staff turnover
due to the 1987 reorganization.
10.   Borrower's Performance
10.01        KIE's performance, as the implementing agency, appeared satisfactory during project
preparation and early implementation stages. However, as time passed, its performance slipped mainly
due to changes of management, and lack of adequate commitment to the reforms by the new management.
Although KIE was able to obtain the Government's approval for offering improved salaries to its staff,
these salary levels were still not adequate to recruit and retain qualified high caliber staff. Because of
its own management capacity, its bureaucratic procedures and lack of autonomy, and lack of timely
management initiatives KIE was not able to recruit some of the technical assistance personnel without
whose services improvements in operations including through staff and entrepreneur training programs
could not be started. KIE's financial and investment policies were leading the institution into a serious
financial situation. KIE had also started contravening some of the covenants of the Project Agreement
(Part III, item 7).



-7 -
11.   Project Relationship
11.01        IDA-KIE relationships were satisfactory during the project preparation and appraisal
stages. Thereafter, following the change in KIE management (in February 1986), IDA noticed an erosion
of KIE's commitment to the reform process and non-compliance with some of the covenants in the Project
Agreement. KIE's relationships with some other donors also started loosening so much so that by the
end of FY90 the African Development Fund was the only donor left. Belgium and GTZ continued to
provide some funding for the informal sector through KIE.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01        The legal agreements included appropriate covenants requiring KIE to submit to IDA key
information relating to its performance to facilitate monitoring.  Provisions were also made for
consultation with IDA on KIE's interest rate structure and for appointment of experts to strengthen
appraisal capability. In order not to delay credit effectiveness, IDA waived certain conditions relating
to appointment of experts, with the result that most of the experts did not get appointed. The Staff
Appraisal Report did provide a useful framework for IDA/KIE during project implementation but it
required intensive and more frequent supervision which IDA did not provide.
13.   Findings and Lessons Learned
13.01        As with the SSI I Project, the SSI II Project also proved to be a failure. Due to
institutional and appraisal weaknesses, KIE was able to commit funds under the credit for only 15 sub-
projects. Although it was able to improve its collection performance, the quality of the loan portfolio
continued to deteriorate. Because of management deficiencies, KIE was unable to recruit technical
assistance experts to strengthen KIE's project appraisal, supervision and entrepreneur training capabilities.
KIE's financial position was also became precarious due to investment of substantial funds with financial
institutions which were under liquidation. KIE management was either unable or unwilling to take
corrective measures. In view of these institutional and financial problems, IDA declined to extend the
sub-project submission date and canceled the uncommitted amount, representing about 73 % of the credit.
The main reasons for the failure of the project were as follows. Firstly, the objectives were too
ambitious for KIE to achieve; KIE did not have the capability or the potential to be an efficient channel
for SSI lending and at the same time to be a provider of intensive entrepreneur training and technical
assistance to SSIs. The position was made more difficult by the government giving KIE a starting
portfolio of troubled projects without the financial or other support to resolve their problems. Secondly,
KIE's management lacked professional commitment and capability to override non-commercial
considerations in trying to accomplish the objectives agreed with IDA. Thirdly, the design of the project
was flawed in as much as IDA agreed to support KIE's multifarious activities, knowing quite well, from
its experience of implementation of the SSI I Project, that as a parastatal KIE did not have the
management capability or motivation to take timely steps to improve its performance. The change of
attitude and the few initial steps taken by KIE towards reform, which persuaded IDA to appraise the SSI
II Project, were not sustained and followed up by KIE's new management which was installed after the
appraisal of the project. Fourthly, IDA's supervision was inadequate and IDA was unwilling to enforce
key conditions of effectiveness that might have contributed to the success of the project.



-8-
13.02         The lessons of experience are as follows. Firstly, project appraisal should start with an
effective assessment of the institution's "enabling environment". If, as in this case, past experience has
demonstrated that such environment is unfavorable to the project objectives (as observed under the earlier
SSI I project), the Bank group should not finance a follow up operation. Secondly, setting of project
objectives should be related to the capabilities of the implementing agency. However, if these capabilities
are too weak for the institution to achieve essential project objectives, again, the Bank group should
refrain from lending. Thirdly, the Bank Group should devote greater time and effort to making a
realistic assessment of the commitment of the beneficiary to the objectives of the project. Finally, if
despite all the above, the Bank proceeds with a loan/credit, it should be based on a careful review of the
risks, and on well designed measures to ensure considerable supervision to buttress the limited
implementation capacity and to ensure compliance with covenants in legal agreements.



-9-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1738-KE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part A: Adequacy and Accuracy of Information in Part IiI of the PCR
Most of the information contained in Part Ill is factual and accurate. This is particularly so
where numerical information is reproduced; for example, sub-projects submitted, quality of
portfolio etc. However, there were many more sub-projects financed by other co-financiers
and which are not covered in the Part III analysis. Also the assessment of the initial KIE's
approval and disbursement targets as "Overly ambitious" is perhaps fair.
We do not agree with the evaluation of the compliance with the covenants in legal
agreements. For instance, the recruitment of a Finance Manager, Financial Analyst,
entrepreneur training advisor or submission of full reports etc, were effected, though perhaps
not to IDA's satisfaction. This is not the same as non-compliance.
Part B: Analysis Contained in Part I
In our assessment the failure to attain the started objectives and targets can be attributed to:-
(1)    Unrealistically high and conflicting objectives and targets set for the KIE
during the design stages.
(2)    Generally absence of an enabling and conducive environment for the growth
of SSI in the country.
(3)    Mortality rate of Small Scale Industries is very high especially when one is
dealing with first generation entrepreneurs.
(4)   IDA's failure to help KIE in bringing about early effectiveness of the
credit-line.
The first could have been avoided if lessons were drawn, from other existing SSI Programs
that had the same range of objectives and mandate during the project design and appraisal
stage.
The second and third could probably have been appreciated and relevant covenants introduced
to shield the institution from any blame if the objectives set-out could not be achieved due to
unfavorable environment of SSI financing in Kenya. In view of these inherent weaknesses in



- 10-
the project design blaming KIE for failing to succeed under such circumstances appears to be
unfair.
Part C. Evaluation of Bak's Performane
There appears to have been a need for a more thorough study of the project and its
environment considering that this was one of the very first such projects financed by the Bank
in the continent which would have led to a better project design.
An in-depth analysis was vital so as to ascertain whether an 'enabling environment' existed in
terms of qualified and good management, political will and other support-institutional structures.
Had such an indepth analysis been done in the KIE case some of the problems raised in Part B
above could have been eschewed.
We also believe there is need for the IDA'S policy to change to allow its officers to demonstrate
practically on the ground how to effect changes necessary for a successful implementation of the
project rather than writing aide-memoires after very short and infrequent missions to the
institution.
Part D: Evaluation of Borrowers Performance (KIE)
As stated in B above the evaluation of the borrower contained in Part III of the PCR is fairly
accurate. The quality of the portfolio deteriorated during the evolution and implementation of
the project, culminating in the advice by IDA to concentrate on portfolio improvement in 1988.
Substantial KIE funds were locked in some insolvent financial institutions and their recoverability
is still uncertain even today.
True, there existed opportunities for improving performance which were often not fully
exploited by the company. There were a few cases where better management lending
decisions were not taken but this should not be construed as having been a deliberate
corporate or management policy.
Many lessons have been learned by KIE as a result of this project and our association with the
Bank.
There is now greater emphasis on the smaller sub-projects and focus on appraisal of the
entrepreneur. Similarly project monitoring and supervision has been intensified and the
concerned departments have been strengthened.
Debt and arrears collection is now a priority for the management and consequently a system
of debt-collection has been advised which has an in-built incentive scheme.
Today the management of KIE has already appreciated these short-comings and has,
therefore, proposed major restructuring of the organization aimed at making the company
profitable and sustainable. Even the mission statement of KIE has been refrained to reflect
this new outlook. (Please see attached Restructuring proposal Document). KIE would
appreciate the comments of IPA on the measures we are taking to restructure ourselves. The



- 11 -
present management of KIE is committed to ensuring that the organization succeeds in its
stated objectives and the fact that the Government has categorized KIE has a strategic
parastatal gives us strong impetus to pursue our goals with renewed vigor.
Part E: Effectiveness of Relationships Between Bank-Group and Borrower
According to KIE the relationship has been satisfactory. Some areas for future improvements
include the following:-
The frequency of project monitoring visits was too low to be effective in timely
detection and correction of deviations from stated objectives and guidelines of the
project. Feedback from IDA to KIE management following these visits often came
too late to be of much use in correcting deviations.
*     There were also considerable delays in IDA making a decision whether to accept or
reject sub-projects sent by KIE for commitments.
*     There were frequent changes of personnel in touch with KIE at the Bank-Group
headquarters which affected continuity and relationships. Often this brought delays in
our work-programs.
X     While the advice by IDA that KIE concentrate on arrears recovery was good and most
opportune, it nonetheless resulted in diversion of attention and resources from further
lending to improvements of existing portfolio. This fact should have been taken into
consideration when KIE requested extension of the date of sub-project submission
from 31st December 1989 to 1992.
IDA should have not have taken a unilateral decision not to extend credit commitment
deadline before consultations were done and early signals for this eventuality sent out
to the cooperating agencies.
Part F: Evaluation of Co-financiers
The performance of co-financiers can be rated as good. Most of them were quicker in making
timely decisions on KIE sub-projects than the Bank-Group. As a result many more sub-projects
were financed through them than through the Bank-Group. It is important that co-financiers of
a project to have common goals and objectives and agree on important matters of credit
cancellation, evaluation and important covenants affecting the implementation of a project.






- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KENYA INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1738-KE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit iPus                        Year of Aproval  Sa
Industrial Deve-   To provide financing for
lopment Bank I      medium and large-scale
(Loan 946-KE)       industrial projects            1973         Closed
$5 million
Industrial Deve-    To provide financing for
lopment Bank II     medium and large-scale
(Loan 1148-KE)      industrial projects            1975         Closed
$10 million
Industrial Deve-    To provide financing for
lopment Bank III    medium and large-scale
(Loan 1438-KE)      industrial projects             1977        Closed
$20 million
Small Scale         To provide financing and
Industry Project    technical assistance to
(Credit 750-KE)     small-scale entrepreneurs       1977        Closed
$10 million
Industrial Deve-    To provide financing for
lopment Bank IV     medium and large-scale
(Loan 1817-KE)      industrial projects             1980        Closed
$30 million
Industrial Sector   To improve sectoral effi-
Adjustment Credit   ciency, stimulate private
(Credit 1927-KE)    investment, and encourage
$145.7 million      export production               1988        Closed
Export Develop-     To support an integrated
ment Project       package of policy reforms,
(Credit 2197-KE)    investments, studies and
$100 million       technical assistance             1990        On-going
Financial Parasta-    Restructuring of Financial
tals TA Project     Institutions                    1990        On-going
(Credit 2147-KE)
$6 million



- 14 -
2.                   rject Timetable
am             Date Planned   Date Revised    Date Actual
- Identification   Sept. 1984     Sept. 1984    Sept. 1984
- Preparation      January 1985  January 1985  January 1985
- Appraisal         March 1985   March 1985   March 1985
- Negotiations     Sept. 1985     Sept. 1985    Sept. 1985
- Board Approval   Nov. 1985      Dec. 1985    October 1986
- Signature        Jan. 1986      Nov. 1986    November 1986
- Effectiveness     April 1986    April 1987    April 1987
- Sub-project
Submission       Dec. 1989      Dec. 1989    Dec. 1989
- Credit Closing   Dec. 1994      March 1991   March 20, 1991
- Completion       June 1995      Sept.1991    Dec. 1991
Comments: In view of KIE's continuing financial and institutional problems, and
IDA's doubts regarding its viability as an independent lending institution, IDA canceled the
uncommitted amount of SDR 4.6 million as on March 20, 1991.
3.    Credit Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS 'million)
Bank FY       1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
Appraisal
Estimate      0.3  1.3  2.4  3.3  4.2  4.8  5.3  5.7 6.0
Actual       0.0  0.4  1.1  1.2  1.6  1.6



- 15 -
4.    Project Implementation
Indicators       Appraisal Estimate      Actua
1. Collection    KIE would make an      Collections performance
aggressive effort      remained poor and was a
to improve position.   matter of concern to IDA
2. Appointment   TA experts would train   Delays in appointment of
of experts    KIE staff in improved    experts contributed to
appraisal and supervision  continued poor appraisals.
procedures.
3. KIE's financial Proposed financial    Despite restructuring KIE's
position      restructuring would     unsound investment policies
place KIE on a         had a serious impact on its
sound footing.         financial position.
5.               Project Costs and Financing
A . Proiect Costs
Item          Appraisal Estimate            Actual
Local   F.Ex.  Total   Local F.Ex.   Total
(US$ m)                (US$ m)
Credit Component 6.6     8.5    15.1        Not Available
Tech. Assistance  0.1    1.4     1.5        Not Available
Total            6 7    9.2      16.6
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Planned
Credit
Source         Agreemen   Revised   Final      Comments
IDA            6.0         1.6       1.6        Credit canceled 3/91
NORAD and    3.9           N.A       N.A.
KFW
Government    0.8          N.A.      N.A.
KIE cash
generation     5.9         N.A.      N.A.
Total          16 



- 16 -
6.            Proect Results
A. Direc Benefits
Appraisal   Estimated at     Estimated
Indicatr         Etimat       Closing Date     Development
1. Job Creation    1500       316             224
2. Entrepreneurs
assisted       200           19              15
B. Economic IMj W
Economic Rate of Retur    Appraisal EstiM=       Actual
2 sub-projects            35%                    N.A.
13 sub-projects           Not estimated          14%-39.5%
[Note: Figures supplied by KIE]
C. Fnancia Inwact
Financial Rate of Retu      Apprajsal Estimate       A=d
15 sub-projects          14%-49%                 7.6%-38%
[Note: Figures supplied by KIEJ
D. Suies
Not Applicable



- 17 -
7.    Status of Covenants
Covenant               SubjetSau
CONDMTION OF EFFECTIVENESS
Section 4.01 of SAR    Recruit qualified persons  Not in compliance
for positions of Finance
Manager, etc.
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Section 4.01           Government to keep IDA   In compliance
informed of progress on
review of KIE's salary
structure.
PROJECT AGREEMENT
Section 2.04(b)        KIE shall recruit a     Not in compliance
Financial Analyst to
assist in strengthening
its appraisal capability.
Section 2.05(a)        KIE shall prepare and   In compliance
submit to IDA an Annual
Operating Plan no later
than June 1, each year.
Section 2.08(b)        KIE shall submit to IDA   Not fully in
all information as IDA  compliance
shall reasonably request
concerning, inter alia,
the Project and the
operations and financial
condition of KIE.
Section 2.11           KIE shall make no change In compliance
in its Policy Statement,
which would affect its
operation or financial
condition, without agrqe-
ment from the Government
and IDA.
Section 2.13           KIE shall not build new   In compliance
industrial estate
facilities, unless shown
to be viable by a feasi-
bility study acceptable to
IDA.



- 18 -
Section 3.01           KIE shall furnish audited   Not fully in
(b)(ii)                accounts to IDA no later  compliance
than six months after the
end of its fiscal year.
Section 3.05           KIE shall institute a    In compliance
supervision fee of at
least 1% p.a. on average
outstanding balances,
unless IDA agrees otherwise.
Section 3.06           KIE shall consult annually In compliance
with IDA on its interest
rate structure.
8.           Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Not Available
B. Missions
Stage of     Month No. of Days in Specialization   Performance      Types of
Proiect Cyjlx     Yea   Persons field    Represented     Rating     Problems
Through       9/84
Appraisal     11/84
Appraisal     3/85   4        19    3 FA, 1 ECON
through Board  7/85    1      2     FA
Approval
Board Appr.   3/87   3        12    2 FA, 1 ECON    2               Mgt, Arrears
through effec-                                                      Procedures
tiveness
Supervision    7/88    1      11    FA                3             Mgt.,Arrears,
*                                     Procedures.
8/89    1      4      ECON.             3             Mgt.,Arrears,
Procedures,
Financial.
[Note: FA     - Financial Analyst
Econ.  - Economist]
kiess2pc.02a



