Dcmaf
The World Bank
FOE omcIuL USE ONLY
CR. ,>gi~/-1
Report No. 5773-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
KIE SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY CREDIT
August 28, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Shilling
US$1 = 16.5 K Shs
K Shs = US$0.06
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK     Central Bank of Kenya
DFCK    Development Finance Company of Kenya
EADB    East African Development Bank
ICDC    Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB     Industrial Development Bank
IPA     Industrial Promotion Area
KCB     Kenya Commercial Bank
KCFC    Kenya Commercial Finance Company
KFW     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KIE     Kenya Industrial Estates
KITI    Kenya Industrial Training Institute
KTDC    Kenya Tourist Development Corporation
NBFI    Non-Bank Financial Institution
NORAD   Norwegian Agency for International Development
RIDC    Rural Industrial Development Center
SEFCO   Small Enterprise Finance Company
TSC     Technical Service Center



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary                                              i - ii
Basic Data                                                            iii - iv
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Economic Setting                                                      1
The Manufacturing Sector                                             1
The Small Scale Industry Sector                                      3
Government Objectives and the Role of Small-Scale Inidtstry          4
The Financial Sector                                                 6
Bank Strategy                                                       10
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives                                                  11
Project Description                                                 11
The Institution                                                     12
III. THE CREDIT
Features of the Proposed Credit                                     29
Project Implementation                                              30
Disbursement                                                        31
Benefits and Risks                                                  31
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS                32
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission to Kenya in
February-March 1985, consisting of Paul Murgatroyd (mission leader),
Michael Sarris, Melanie Horton and Kanella Vasiliades.
r tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



List of Annexes
Para. Ref.
Annex  1       Interest rate Structure in Kenya                         1.25
Annex  2       SSI Term Lenders in Kenya: A Comparison of
Terms and Portfolio Size                                1.28
Annex 3        Analysis of KIE Subproject Performance                  2.06
Annex  4       Analysis of IDA Subproject Performance                  2.09
Annex  5       KIE Organization Chart                                  2.10
Annex  6       KIE Program for Improving the Selection of
Entrepreneurs and Projects                              2.17
Annex  7       KIE Industrial Estate Facilities                        2.26
Annex  8       KIE Policy Statement                                    2.33
Annex  9       KIE Actual and Projected Operations                     2.35
Annex 10       KIE Loan Portfolio Composition                          2.38
Annex 11       KIE Actual and Projected Income Statements              2.42
Annex 12       KIE Actual and Projected Balance Sheets                 2.42
Annex 13       KIE Projected Sources and Uses of Funds                 2.42
Annex 14       KIE Actual and Projected Financial Ratios               2.42
Annex 15       KIE Projened Resource Statement                         2.44
Annex 16       Disbursement Schedule                                   3.10
Annex 17       Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File



- i -
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Kenya
Beneficiary:   Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE)
Amount:         A credit of SDR 5.8 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Relending       The Government of Kenya would onlend the credit component
Terms:          (US$5.0 million) to KIE at a fixed rate of interest of 6.0%
p.a. and a fixed amortization schedule for 15 years,
including three years c, grace. The Government would bear
the foreign exchange risk. KIE would relend the funds to
its borrowers at interest rates of between 14% and 15%
p.a. (including a i% p.a. supervision fee). Government
would make available the technical assistance component of
US$1.0 million to KIE as a grant.
Project         The project would support the Government's program of
DIPSrittion:   providing financial assistance, training and management
counselling through KIE to small-scale industries (SSIs)
and would make KIE a more efficient channel for implementing
this program. The IDA credit would involve (i) a $5 million
line of credit to KIE for on-lending to an estimated 200
SSIs; anu (ii) a technical assistance component of US$1
million to include (a) US$.9 million to finance two advisors
in supervision and entrepreneur training as well as
continued funding of the Finance Manager position; and (b)
US$.1 million for entrepreneur training development and a
survey to identify opportunities for SSIs to provide
intermediate inputs to medium and large-scale industry.
Benefits       The project would support Government objectives to provide
and Risks:     more effective assistance to small-scale industrialists by
increasing the supply of credit to them. Through its
technical assistance, the project would also consolidate
recent gains in KIE's performance and enhance its ability to
provide assistance to SSIs. The credit and the sponsors'
contributions together would also help provide employment
opportunities for about 1,500 workers at an average cost per
job of US$5,000, develop new African entrepreneurs, and make
consumer goods based on domestic materials available to
lower income groups at the local level.



- ii -
The major project risk is that KIE may not continue its
recent rapid progress toward becoming a more effective,
financially self-sufficient and autonomous institution
capable of preparing better projects and providing valuable
technical assistance and training to its clients while
collecting debts in a timely and effective manner. This
risk is reduced, however, through a number of safeguards,
some already contained in KIE's policies and guidelines, and
some to be added in the context of this credit. Moreover,
Bank staff will continue to work closely with KIE to build
on the momentum of KIE's recent achievements and ensure
further progress. Finally, Government commitment to KIE's
program to become a sound institution provides further
assurance that pressures for non-economic decisions will be
reduced.
Estimated Cost:                            Local       Foreign     Total
(US$ million)
Credit Component                            6.6          8.5        15.1
Technical Assistance Component                .1         1.4          1.5
Subtotal                                6.7          9.9        16.6
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                    -           6.0         6.0
NORAD and KFW                                -           3.9         3.9
Government loans                            0.8           -          0.8
KIE self-generated funds                    5.9           -          5.9
Total                                   6.7          9.9        16.6
Estimated Disbursements: _/
Bank FY        1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
(US$ million)
Annual          0.3    1.0    1.1    0.9    0.9    0.6    0.5    0.4    0.3
Cumulative      0.3    1.3    2.4    3.3    4.2    4.8    5.3    5.7    6.0
Rate of Return: n/a
1/ Based on the region-wide IDF disbursement profile.



- iii-
KENYA
KIE Second Salf ScUale Industry Credit
Basic Data
(Ksh million: 1US$- Ksh 16.5)
1. Date of Establishment (as separate institution): 1977
2.  Share Ca ital: (as of June 30, 1986)
or ze :                           Ksh 200 million
Paid-in Capital:                      Ksh 153 million
Owne rsllip:                           100% Government of Kenya
3.  Resource Position as of June 30, 1986 (Ksh million)
Sources:
Beginning Cash Balance                         106.2
Government Loans                                20.4
Uncommitted KFW & NORAD Loans                   34.1
Internal Cash Generation - FY1986               26.0
Total Sources                                  186.7
Non-Lending Uses:
Fixed Assets                                     4.4
Change in Working Capital                       11.6)
Subtotal                                    16.0
Available for Lending:
Available for Disbursements                    170.7
Less Disbursements                            37.8
Available for Future Disbursements             IT ".
Of which Unutilized Lines of Credit:            22.1
Of which Ending Cash:                          110.7
Less Undisbursed Commitments                    30.6
Available for Future Commitments               102.3
4. Interest Rates and Other Charges
Interest Rates   : 14% p.a. minimum to enterprises requiring loans of
more than Ksh I million. 13% p.a. minimum for
loans of K Sh 1 million or less.
Penalty Interest : 2% for loans; 14% for rent in arrears, with
additional 2% penalty if over 6 months past due.
Commitment and       Commitment (1% p.a. on undisbursed balance);
Other Fees        : appraisal (0.5% of loan amount); feasibility study
(0.5% of loan amount where applicable).
Foreign Exchange
Risk              : Borne by Government.
5.  Summary of Operations 1982-1986 (Ksh million)
Actual                  Budget
Year Ending June 30           1982    1983    1984      1985       1986
Loan Approvals (net)          56.1    50.8    54.8      45.9       79.6
Loan Commitments              n.a.l/  n.a.1/  67.6      42.5       36.7
Loan Disbursements            48.5    35.9    45.0      49.3       37.8
Fixed Asset Disbursements    21.6    18.3    11.8       12.9        4.4
Number of Loans                 95      140     130      154        200
1J  KIE did not distinguish between approvals and commitments untiL FY84.



- iv -
6. Financial Position and Operating Results 1982-1986 (Ksh million)
Actual               Budget
Year Ending June 30               1982    1983    1984    1985        1986
Loan Income                       20.3    20.3    24.0    29.7        33.0
Industrial Estate Income           6.9    10.1      8.8      9.6       9.6
Other Income 2/                   10.9    15.7    14.9    14.1        17.3
Gross Income                      38.1    46.1    47.7    53.3        59.9
Expenses
Administrative (incl. deprec.)  24.4    27.3    26.1    28.8          29.5
Interest                          10.5    12.9    14.5       9.9      10.6
Profit Before Provisions           3.2      5.9     7.1    14.7       19.9
Provisions 3/                     24.0      1.3    18.7      9..1      9.8
Taxes                              -        -       -         -        5.9
Profit (Loss)                    (20.8)    4.6   (T116)    5.6         4.2
Net Current Assets                73.7    71.5    57.1   157.5    177.3
Portfolio (Gross)                196.8   240.3   283.8   264.8    286.3
Less Provisions                  (51.5)  (51.3)  (57.0)  (58.0)   (62.0)
Net Portfolio                    145.3   189.0   226.8   206.8    224.3
Net Fixed Assets                 113.8   128.3   136.4   146.4    147.0
Total Net Assets                 332.8   388.8   420.4   510.7    548.6
Long--Term Debt                  239.8   280.2   310.9   196.1    212.4
Capital                          165.9   177.6   190.0   311.2    329.3
Retained Earnings (Losses)       (72.9)  (69.0)  (80.5)    3.4         6.9
Net Worth                         93.0   108.6   109.5   314.6    336.2
Total Liabil. and Net Worth    332.8   388.8   420.4   510.7    548.6
7. Selected Financial Ratios 1982-1986
Actual                 Budget
Year Ending June 30                 1982    1983    1984    1985        1986
Loan Income as Z of Average
Lending Assets                    12.1    12.2      9.6    10.1       10.3
Interest Expense as % of             4.9      5.3     4.2      3.5       5.0
Average Long Term Debt
Spread (before provisions) on        7.2      6.9     5.4      5.9       5.3
Lending Activities
Lending Admin. Expenses as %         5.3      4.8      5.0     4.3       4.0
of Average Lending Assets
Net Profit as Z of Average
Total Assets                      (3.6)    1.2    (3.1)    1.1         0.8
Long-Term Debt/Equity                2.8      2.6     2.8      0.6       0.6
Provisions as % Gross Portfolio   23.3    19.4    19.0    22.0          22.0
Arrears 3 months as % of            21.2    19.5    18.6    19.0        20.0
Gross Portfolio
Z of Value of Portfolio             52%      66%     62%      60%       64%
Affected by Arrears
Loan Collection Ratio               n.a.    n.a.    61%       90%       80%
2/ Mostly interest on fixed deposits.
3/  Provision expenses and, t'nerefore, net profits are not strictly comparable to
those of prior years because of significant changes in the accounts.



I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
1.01      Kenya's first two decades following independence in 1963 have
witnessed quick growth and structural transformation in the early years, as
well as declining growth rates in recent years with the emergence of
structural constraints. GDP grew at an average annual rate of 6.62 during
1964-1973, 4.7% from 1974 to 1981, 3.9% during 1980-83, O.9Z during the
drought-affected year 1984 and an estimated 4.2% in 1985. Per capita
income thus declined in 1982-84 as population was growing at a rate of
nearly 4% per annum. Kenya's slowdown in economic growth, as well as the
emergence of serious financial and economic imbalances, are to a large
extent due to the impact of external shocks (the terms of trade declined by
39% between 1960 and 1982) and the delayed policy response to these shocks
in the early 1980s.
1.02      Several policy-related problems on the domestic front, however,
contributed to the deceleration of growth. These included: changes in
the internal terms of trade which favored an industrial sector heavily
dependent on protection at the expense of agriculture; inadequate
incentives for agricultural producers; institutional weaknesses in the
distribution of inputs and in marketing; overexpansion and inadequate
management of the parastatal sector; and rapid population growth with
resulting pressure on scarce land and other resources.
1.03      While policy-related constraints continued to affect the effi-
ciency and growth prospects of the Kenyan economy, by the end of 1983 the
Government had made important progress in reducing fiscal and external
deficits to sustainable levels through stabilization measures. In addition
to tighter fiscal and monetary management and a restrictive wage policy,
Kenya adjusted the exchange rate in nominal terms on several occasions
after 1981 and began to formulate and implement policy reforms in the
industrial and agricultural sectors.
1.04      The essence of the Government's strategy was to establish a new
set of price signals to encourage an efficient pattern of industrial deve-
lopment, more rapid growth of agriculture and expansion and diversification
of exports. To achieve this, the Government began moving toward a trade
regime involving less variation in the level of effective protection
provided to different branches of industry, and more moderate protection to
industry relative to agriculture. In addition, the Government strategy
involved fiscal support for exports and measures to rationalize the
selection of public sector investments. Some progress has already been
achieved in the implementation of this strategy to which the Government is
still devoting its efforts.



-2.
B. The Manufacturing Sector
1.05      The performance of Kenya's manufacturing sector mirrored trends
in the economy. The sector grew at average annual rates of IIZ between
1964 and 1974, 5.6% between 1974 and 1981, and then dropped to about 3.7%
in 1982-84. However, the sector's share of GDP grew from about 8% in 1964
to 13.4% in 1984. Rising agricultural incomes, protectionism and Govern-
ment promotion of manufacturing ventures fuelled the rapid growth prior to
1974. Primarily as a result of the last two factors, Kenya's manufacturing
sector is oriented toward import substitution, relies heavily on imported
inputs and is dominated by large, capital intensive firms, many of which
are government-owned.
1.06      Things were not always so.  Manufactured exports were high in the
1960s, but their contribution to industrial growth declined sharply there-
after-the share of exports in manufactured output fell from 22.6% in 1972
to 9.3 % in 1984. This decline was particularly due to the dissolution of
the East African Common Market (EAC), as well as to the development of
import substitution industries in neighboring countries and economic diffi-
culties in these countries. However, exports to non-EAC countries, which
grew rapidly during the late 1970's, also declined as domestic inflation
eroded Kenya's comparative advantage. The share of imports in the domestic
supply of manufactured goods dropped from 44.3% in 1972 to 20.9% in 1984--a
further indication that the Kenyan economy was becoming less open.
1.07      Although Kenya's manufacturing sector has developed in an envi-
ronment encouraging private sector investment (domestic and foreign),
governmient participation in the ownership of industrial firms increased
substantially during the 1970s. The Government now has at least a minority
interest in firms producing 50% of manufacturing value added. Growing
Government participation in manufacturing reflects to some extent pressures
to Africanize the economy. More recently, the Government has put increased
emphasis on promoting African-owned enterprises, mainly small-scale, rather
than on creating public enterprises.
1.08      Employment generation in manufacturing, representing about 10% of
the country's registered employment, has been limited because of the high
share of large, capital intensive firms and because the overall system of
incentives reduced the relative price of capital with respect to labor.
While manufacturing output grew between 1972 and 1984 at an average annual
rate of 8.2%, employment grew by only 4.8% per year. Furthermore, since
1979, industrial employment has grown more slowly than the labor force (2%
p.a. compared to 3.5%). Partly because many new plants were established to
serve the regional market, installed capacity in some subsectors (e.g. tex-
tiles) exceeds domestic demand by a large margin, leading to low capacity
utilization and high average costs. About 70% of industrial activity is
concentrated in the major urban centers of Nairobi and Mombasa.
1.09      Although more than half of manufacturing value added is accounted
for by food processing, textiles, clothing, leather and wood, 43% of value



- 3 -
added is contributed by more capital intensive subsectors, i.e., electrical
machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, and paper. About 75% of
manufacturing value added is contributed by 605 firms which employ more
than 50 persons. These larger companies, which represent only 22% of the
total number of registered firms (2,669), employ 95% of the 149,000
employees in the formal manufacturing labor force. The remaining 7,000
formal manufacturing jobs are provided by some 2,000 registered small-scale
firms.
1.10      In addition to the registered small industries there are an
estimated 14,000 small unregistered manufacturing enterprises 1/ employing
some 31,000 persons not included in the formal sector statistics.
Therefore, about 16,000 smaller enterprises (the registered plus the
unregistered firms) employing less than 50 workers produce about 20% of
manufacturing value added and employ 38,000 people or 22% of the
manufacturing labor force. The share of units employing less than 50
persons in both total manufacturing value added and employment in Kenya is
considerably smaller than in other developing countries with similar factor
endowments and at about the same level of development, indicating that
Kenya's manufacturing sector is overly dominated by the larger companies.
C. The Small Scale Industry Sector
1.11      Sectoral Characteristics.   Kenya's small-scale industry sector
consists of about 14,000 traditional rural (mostly non-wage household)
enterprises or urban wage-paying units employing one or two individuals and
2,000 modern small-scale manufacturing units employing between three and
fifty employees. Traditional enterprises engage mainly in relatively
simple activities such as charcoal making, weaving, knitting, tailoring,
furniture making and repair services. Most of these enterprises use
hand-operated equipment and their owners have well-developed technical
skills. However, they lack managerial skills, produce low quality
products which are only marketed locally, and generally have their
financial needs met from outside the formal financial system. The
traditional subsector usually expands by replication rather than by growth
in unit size. A few voluntary agencies provide financial and technical
assistance to this group.
1.12      The modern small-scale industry sector accounts for 3% of GDP and
4% of national employment. The range of products manufactured by the
modern sector is far greater than that of the traditional sector. For
example, the metal goods subsector produces paper clips, rivets, electrical
fixtures, milk churns, bicycles, farm implements, and other products.
1/ For statistical purposes Kenya's Central Bureau of Statistics defines
all manufacturing establishments employing less than 50 employees as
small-scale industries.  Small enterprise statistics, which are less
reliable than for large-scale enterprise, do not include enterprises
that are based solely on non-wage labor.



- 4 -
Other important modern small-scale industries include:  food processing,
grain milling, wood products, clothing, leather goods, pottery and glass,
metal work, furniture and fixtures. This sector has proven to be an
important source of basic goods for low-income households and the major
seedbed for developing African industrialists. Much of the modern small
enterprise sector has developed around Nairobi and Mombasa, and about 60%
of the employment it provides is located there. Although there is
considerable potential for additional small-scale enterprise formation, a
number of constraints have slowed down the sector's development relative to
the large-scale sector.
1.13      SSI Problems and Constraints.  Lack of entrepreneurial and
management skills is one of the most serious constraints facing Kenya's
small-scale industry. As in many African countries, failure rates are high
both for the entrepreneurs who try to move out of the traditional informal
sector to the modern small-scale industry sector, where they must change
attitudes, organizational and management styles and augment existing
skills, as well as for new entrepreneurs. The Government as well as the
financial institutions that have provided credit to small-scale
industrialists have made special efforts to address these problems through
training and technical assistance. The proposed project will support a
training program in entrepreneurial and management skills (para. 2.21).
1.14      Lack of access to term finance affects small-scale industry's
capacity to grow, particularly for those small enterprises which attempt to
market on a wider regional or national basis. One of the major objectives
of the proposed credit is to address this problem as discussed below.
Small enterprises are also not well-positioned to tender for larger orders,
or obtain government approvals and tax incentives which can significantly
affect profitability. In addition, small enterprises are at a disadvantage
in competing with larger firms in that they often cannot purchase materials
in optimal quantities at favorable prices or have limited access to
well-developed distribution channels and to foreign exchange allocations.
The Government, through the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, is providing
support to small industrialists in overcoming these constraints. A new
Government policy to move significant public sector procurement
decision-making to the district level has enhanced the ability of small
industrialists to compete for this business.
D. Government Objectives and the Role of Small-Scale Industry
1.15      The Government's current objectives for the manufacturing sector,
reiterated in the Sessional Paper No. 1, 1986, Economic Management for
Renewed Growth, include accelerated employment creation, a larger share of
tactor payments for lower income groups in areas outside Nairobi, increased
use of local inputs, emphasis on rehabilitation and expansion, the
production of Inexpensive consumer goods and the development of a
significant African entrepreneur sector. This is a sensible change from
past policies towards the industrial sector. High effective protection for
import substitution industries, for example, resulted in increased domestic



-.  5   -
(nominal) value added but in little expansion of employment, while at the
same time the high-cost products of these enterprises, produced with
imported materials, were not accessible to Kenya's low-income consumers.
It has also discouraged the development of intermediate goods industries,
thus reducing the potential for linkages between small and large-scale
enterprises and has forced these enterprises to secure many of their inputs
from large enterprises producing low quality intermediate products at high
prices.
1.16      The adjustment policies that the Government is pursuing in order
to increase the economic efficiency of the industrial sector (para. 1.04)
should go a long way towards correcting these anomalies. In an effort to
reverse the effects of past policies, the Government has, in recent years,
offered more effective encouragement to the small enterprise sector,
primarily through expanding and strengthening Kenya Industrial Estates
(KIE), its largest program (para. 2.03) for financial and technical
assistance to support small firms. Although such support will not
substitute for policy reforms, it will accelerate and expand the role of
these enterprises in Kenya's economy, in accordance with Government
objectives.
1,17      Small-scale industrial development would contribute to Kenya's
short-term strategy in several ways. First, small enterprises would
provide employment to persons displaced from other subsectors. Second, SSI
production (largely domestic resource--based) of Import substitutes would
reduce pressure on the balance of payments during the adjustment period.
Thlird, the broadening of the entrepreneurial class through increased
African participation could be an effective antidote to the potential
social unrest associated with the adjustment process.
1.18      Small-scale industrial development programs can thus proceed in
parallel to the ongoing structural adjustment process with the latter being
the main vehicle for sector policy reform and the former providing much
needed support during the adjustment process. As KIE is the major
Government program for small-scale industry support, Government has asked
for continued Bank Group support to reinforce the positive momentum KIE has
achieved toward improving its effectiveness as a viable, self-supported
lending institution.
1.19      The increased emphasis on small-scale industrial development,
reflected in Government's current Five-Year Plan for industry, is sound and
represents an appropriate strategy for pursuing Government's longer-term
objectives. First, SSI tend to be labor intensive, creating jobs at a low
US$5,600 (para. 2.07) cost per job (considerably less than the US$25,000
cost per job for larger industrial projects in Kenya). Small-scale
industry also absorbs relatively more unskilled workers than large-scale
industry and provides a training ground for the development of
entrepreneurial and technical skills of the informal labor force. In
addition, SSIs offer a better opportunity than larger industries to develop
new African entrepreneurs, use primarily local materials and provide



- 6 -
consumption goods to lower-income groups at the local level. Rural-based
s&all.scale industry is regionally more evenly distributed than large-scale
Lndustry which is concentrcted in the urban centers.
1.20      Small enterprise development is also consistent with, and is
likely to receive a boost from, the increased attention Government intends
to give to agriculture in an effort to meet the country's food requirements
with domestic supplies. Growth in agricultural output is likely to
stimulate development of a variety of rural based small-scale industries
which process agricultural inputs. Growing agricultural incomes tend to
stimulate the small-scale enterprise sector which, in turn, makes incentive
goods available to encourage increased agricultural production. This is
due to the relatively high proportion of total income that the lower-income
farm population spends on typical small-scale enterprise products and to
the advantage that these enterprises have in being located close to
dispersed sources of increased demand for manufactured consumer products
and simple capital goods.
E. The Financial Sector
1.21      For a country of its income level, Kenya has a diverse and
sophisticated financial system. Tne sector includes a central bank, 24
commercial banks, 48 non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs), 30 insurance
companies, a postal savings bank, a social security system, numerous
pension plans, six industrial development banks, other specialized
financial intermediaries, a stock exchange and over 900 savings and credit
cooperatives.
1.22      Kenya's commercial banking system is dominated by two Government
banks and two British banks, which together hold nearly two-thirds of total
bank deposits. Although the commercial banks continue to dominate the
financial system, their relative position has declined due to the
unprecedented growth of NBFIs. NBFIs, because they are able to charge and
pay higher interest rates than commercial banks, have grown rapidly in
number, with deposits growing on average 25% between 1981 and 1985. During
the same period, their share of private sector credit increased from 30% to
40%. Many NBFIs are under-capitalized,however; a recent amendment to the
Banking Act will strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework for
NBFIs.
1.23      While commercial banks and NBFIs compete vigorously for term
deposits, regulations have provided them with separate lending markets.
Only commercial banks may extend overdraft facilities, deal in foreign
exchange, issue letters of credit and lend to firms more than 15%
foreign owned. On the other hand, only NBFIs may finance property and
provide hire-purchase finance for vehicles and selected equipment.
Moreover, while commercial banks prcvide some working capital facilities to
SSIs (para. 1.27), NBFIs are the second largest source of term finance
(mostly hire-purchase) to SSIs after the development banks. NBFIs have
been more willing to lend to smaller firms on a hire purchase basis because



. 7-
of their ability to charge higher rates (at present 19% vs. 14% for
commercial banks) but continue to require substanr'_'L -collateral and seldom
lend for more than three years.
1.24      Six development finance institutions (DFIs) operating in the
industrial sector have carved out niches in areas where commercial banks
and NBFIs have not operated. Government owns the Industrial Development
Bank (IDB), Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) and
the Kenya Tourist Development Corporation (KTDC) as well as KIE. It also
has minority shares in the other two DFIs, the East African Development
Bank (EADB), also serving Uganda and Tanzania, and the Development Finance
Company of Kenya (DFCK), which is privately controlled. IDB, EADB and
DFCK, taking advantage of their foreign sources of funds, have specialized
in foreign exchange term lending, mainly to medium- and large-scale
enterprises. KTDC has specialized in tourism and KIE in lending to SSIs.
1.25      Resource Mobilization and Interest Rates.  Total deposits of
commercial banks, NBFIs and the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) grew at an
average annual rate of about 11% between 1981 and 1985. Annex 2
illustrates the evolution of the interest rate structure for deposits and
loans from 1980 to 1985. The CBK sets maximum lending and minimum deposit
rates. Minimum deposit rates allow little, if any, spread for maturity and
thus severely limit mobilization of long term local currency resources.
Although past deposit and lending rates have been predominantly negative in
real terms, since 1982, upward adjustments in nominal rates, accompanied by
declining inflation (at present about 10-11%), have made real rates
positive.  As of December 31, 1985, commercial banks charged 14% _nterest
on overdrafts.
1.26      The Role of Commercial Banks in Lending to SSI.  As in many
developing countries, commercial banks have generally been reluctant to
assist small enterprises, particularly on a term basis, and tend to
minimize risk by lending to prime borrowers and to those with strong
collateral. USAID has prepared a Rural Private Enterprise Project setting
aside US$24 million to encourage commercial banks to provide term lending
to small and medium-scale private enterprises. Projects eligible for these
funds must be in the private sector, have a low cost per job created and
cannot be located in Nairobi or Mombasa. No bank has draw*n down funds yet,
but three commercial banks have indicated limited interest in the program:
the Kenya Commercial Bank Group's (KCB - para. 1.27) subsidiary, Kenya
Commercial Finance Company (KCFC), Barclay's and Standard Banks. The
program includes incentives to encourage the banks to lend to smaller
enterprises, but sets no maximum loan size. Barclay's and Standard
anticipate using the funds primarily for their traditional larger, well
established clientele.
1.27      With respect to short term lending to SSI, the commercial banks
have been reluctant to provide working capital loans and thus have hampered
the ability of SSIs to grow successfully. Term lenders such as KIE, beyond
lending for permanent working capital as part of total project cost, are



- 8 -
not well equipped to assist entrepreneurs meaningfully with this problem
because of their lack of rapid decision-making apparatus and their
inability to monitor and control daily account activity. KIE intends to
make working capital loans in cases where an SSI has a firm order from a
client who will agree to make payments directly to KIE. In addition, USAID
is considering a plan (formulated with the help of IDA) to encourage
commercial banks to provide more working capital finance to SSIs by
guaranteeing a portion of the ultimate loss for working capital loans.
Under this scheme, these loans would be secured against receivables from
Government and other select institutions as well as inventories.
1.28      Institutions Providing term Finance to Small-Scale Enterprises.
KCFC, DFCK and ICDC as well as KIE provide term loan assistance to SSIs in
Kenya. (Annex 3 provides comparative data on lending to SSIs). KIE, the
beneficiary under the proposed credit and Government's principal tool to
support SSI development, continues to be the most prominent and most
regionally decentralized institution lending to SSIs. It had a portfolio
valued at US$17 million equivalent in June 1986 and made an average of US$3
million in new loans annually during 1983-1985.
1.29      KCFC has developed a special term lending program for SSIs with
the assistance of about $9 million in lines of credit from USAID, IFC 2/
and OPEC. It has also established a Business Advisory Service Unit with
four staff to help clients prepare feasibility studies for a fee. KCFC is
not resource constrained and is not expected to overlap significantly with
KIE's lending program, as its clients consist largely of more established
entrepreneurs who can meet KCFC's requirements for minimum collateral
totalling 160X of the size of the loan and substantial previous business
experience.
1.30      DFCK, a privately controlled DFI, established a separate
subsidiary, SEFCO, in 1984, to handle small-scale industrial lending.
SEFCO's program, although serving the same clientele as KIE, is much
smaller, its total portfolio amounting to less than US$2 million.
Moreover, as SEFCO has a small professional staff (six) and lacks a branch
network, it has initially focused its operations on two provinces and two
subsectors (wood and food products). Although SEECO has been established
with sound policies and procedures and adequate technical assistance, it
has had to curtail its new lending to deal with a mounting arrears
problem. Its external shareholders have made funding available on
attractive terms and conditions to meet all of SEFCO's rather limited needs
over the 1986-1988 time period, forecast optimistically at US$4 million
equivalent.
1.31      The Government's ICDC, which owned KIE prior to Its establishment
as an independent institution, has operated a small-scale industrial and
2/ IFC has provided US$7 million under two industrial lines of credit of
which about $6.7 million was disbursed by June 30, 1986.



w 9 e
commerical lending program for a number of years. ICDC's portfolio is
dominated by commercial loans, with industrial loans comprising less than
20% of portfolio. Because of poor collections performance, ICDC's arrears
are high, in excess of 50% of total amounts due. Because of this poor
performance, and the need to rehabilitate medium- and large-scale
industrial investments, ICDC largely suspended lending to small-scale
ventures in March 1982.
1.32      As many of its larger scale investments have now been
revitalized, ICDC has the resources to allocate K Sh 20 million to renew
its lending to small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises. It is
the view of Government and IDA that ICDC's ongoing small-scale lending
should be limited to commerce, as these appraisals are less complex and
few other sources of financing exist for African-owned ventures without
requiring substantial collateral. ICDC's SSI lending overlaps with KIE's
client base and has duplicatory costs, far less adequate staffing, (it has
only seven provincial representatives throughout Kenya) inadequate
procedures and infrastructure support; thus it has performed poorly. On
the other hand, ICDC's five professional staff at headquarters who appraise
and monitor small-scale industrial loans (small commercial loans are
handled by other staff) have gained valuable experience in rehabilitating a
number of ICDC's large scale industrial holdings and could play an
invaluable role in helping to restructure other medium- and large-scale
industries in Kenya. During negotiations, Government confirmed that it
would continue to discourage ICDC, which has not been a significant lender
to SSIs of late, from reviving its SSI lending program. Even without
ICDC's involvement in SSI lending, however, KIE will continue to face
healthy competition in lending to small-scale enterprises, particularly as
the KCFC and SEFCO programs expand.
1.33      Demand for SSI Term Loans.  DFCK, KCFC, ICDC and the commercial
banks are expected to provide about $15 million in term loans over the
1986-88 period to small-scale industrial enterprises. Projected demand for
these funds, based on historical borrowing and investment data, is expected
to significantly exceed that level during 1986-88. KIE's $15 million in
projected lending would cover the majority of the gap with the remainder
financed by loans from overdrafts, hire-purchase and sources outside formal
markets. Studies suggest that small enterprises, particularly those in the
traditional sector, meet a significant part of their initial capital
requirements from famlly, friends, money lenders, etc.
F. Bank Strategy
1.34      The Bank strategy for the industrial sector is to support the
Government's objectives (para. 1.15) through fostering the development of
an efficient sector, capable of generating a growing share of the country's
output and employment on a regionally dispersed basis, and in which private
entrepreneurs will play an increasingly significant role. To implement
this strategy the Bank Group relies on a range of instruments, including
project and non-project lending, and economic and sector work. Past



- 10 -
lending to the sector includes four loans to the Industrial Development
Bank (IDB) for medium! and large-scale ..nvestments and one loan to KIE for
small-scale industry. It also includes three non-project lending
operations in support of policy reform. For the future, a policy-based
sector loan will aim at strengthening Kenya's policy and institutional
enviroament while a complementary rehabilitation project will provide
assistance to large scale industry in selected sectors during this period
of adjustment. In project lending, high priority is given to providing
support to small-scale industry for the development of industrial
employment and local entrepreneurship, particularly amongst the African
population. In addition to being a major government objective,
opportunities for socio-economic advancement to aspiring Africans are
likely to soften the short-term adjustment impact associated with sectoral
policy reforms. To this end, the proposed credit would provide effective
assistance to small-scale industrialists and enhance the ability of KIE to
deliver financial and technical assistance to these industrialists.
1.35      In addition, continued IDA involvement with KIE is important at
this time as KIE is still in the early stages of a turnaround in
performance (para. 2.04). KIE, with ID4, assistance, has already taken
significant steps to improve its portfolio, strengthen its financial base
and institute better appraisal and supervision procedures. IDA
participation through the proposed project would also help KIE's
development as an autonomous institution whose lending decisions are
dictated by technical and financial considerations. Finally, the proposed
credit would enable IDA to play a role in improving coordination between
KIE's various lenders and sources of technical assistance.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01      The proposed project is IDA's second line of credit to KIE for
Kenya's small-scale industrial sector.  Its main objectives are to:  (i)
provide resources to small-scale enterprises with good potential for
income-generation and job creation at a relatively low cost; (ii) help
develop the capabilities of small-scale entrepreneurs, mainly Africans, in
Kenya by strengthening KIE's capability to provide intensive entrepreneur
training, project supervision and technical assistance; and (iii) make KIE
a more efficient channel for SSI lending by strengthening its financial
base and rationalizing its lending and industrial estate activities; and
(iv) maintain, through the dialogue with IDA, KIE's substantial momentum
toward improvement which it has generated in the past 18 months.
B. Project Description
2.02      The project would support Government's program of providing
financial assistance, training and management counselling to SSIs in
Kenya through the following components:



- 11 -
(a)   a credit component of US$5 million, representing 83% of the IDA
credit, in the form of a line if credit to KIE for onlending to
an estimated 200 SSIs for plant and equipment, machinery, and
permanent working capital; and
(b)   a technical assistance component of US$1 million to finance (i)
two Deputy Managers for the new entrepreneur training and
supervision functions; (ii) continuation of the services of KIE's
Finance Manager; (iii) development costs for the entrepreneur
training program; and (iv) a survey to identify areas where SSIs
could competitively provide intermediate inputs to medium- and
large-scale industry.
C. The Institution
2.03      Background.  KIE was established in 1967 as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of ICDC in an effort to strengthen Government's small-scale
industrial development programs. It became an independent parastatal under
the Companies Act in 1977. In pursuing its objectives of entrepreneur
development throughout Kenya, KIE has combined industrial estate
construction and management, as well as lending functions, on a nationwide
basis. During the last nine years, KIE has developed as Government's
principal tool to support SSI development. It has grown into an
institution with total assets of K Sh 528 million (US$32 million), 28
regional centers, 397 sheds for rent to entrepreneurs, 427 employees
(including 114 higher level staff), and a portfolio of 630 subloans.
2.04      Experience under the First IDA Credit.  IDA made its first
credit 3/ to KIE in 1977. Experience under the first line of credit was
disappointing in that KIE, until early 1984, did not make satisfactory
progress toward becoming a sound financial institution and developing a
successful lending program. KIE staff emphasized promotion and portfolio
growth, paying insufficient attention to project selection and
supervision. Consequently, while KIE proved dynamic and dedicated to
assisting small scale entrepreneurs, many SSIs it financed have not been
successful; as a result, KIE's arrears were high, debt collection efforts
and portfolio supervision were inadequate, the industrial estate activities
were not financially viable, and KIE experienced losses.
3/ From the original US$10 million credit (750-KE), atout US$3.3 million
sas cancelled (because the expiration date for commitments on the
subloan component was not extended and the industrial estate component
was largely unutilized); currently only about US$1 million remain
available in a technical assistance component. KIE is using some of
these remaining funds to finance a computerization study, real estate
management study, viability studies for two proposed industrial estates
and work toward the design of an entrepreneur training program, as well
as to extend the contract of the Finance Manager. As the closing date
is September 30, 1986, some amounts (approximately US$0.8 million) are
likely to be cancelled.



- 12 -
2.05      KIE, with the active encouragement of Government and IDA, has
fundamentally altered its attitudes and, over the past 18 months, has taken
a number of significant steps to strengthen itself. In 1984, it approved a
new Policy Statement and Guidelines for Operations (paras. 2.17 and 2.33)
incorporating a number of changes IDA has been advocating for some time,
e.g., raising minimum equity investment requirements for its subborrowers,
increasing interest rates, and limiting future KIE industrial estate
investment to projects which were financially viable. KIE has also
launched a major effort to improve debt collections, resulting in
substantial increases in collections, and some improvement in the arrears
position. Together with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, KIE has formulated a comprehensive financial
restructuring program (para. 2.41) to help it become financially
self-sufficient.  In addition, growing Treasury concern that KIE (as well
as other parastatals) become financially viable-thus reducing future
funding requirements-has reduced the level of political pressures on KIE
to build new estates and make loans of marginal quality.
2.06      Characteristics of KIE Projects.  A representative sample of 232
enterprises financed by KIE between 1977 and 1985 (about 40% of KIE
projects) was analyzed in terms of sector, capital intensity, relative
size, and geographical location (Annex 1). The exercise was undertaken to
identify the major characteristics of small-scale industries and determine
which ones are most associated with successful and unsuccessful projects in
order to assist KIE (para. 2.17) in improving its lending strategy. The
analysis shows that 82% of the projects (about 68% of commitments) are in
the relatively labor intensive food, clothing, leather, wood and furniture
industries. The remaining 18% are distributed among the more capital
intensive metal works, chemicals and engineering industries. Some 25% of
the enterprises are located in the major urban centers of Nairobi and
Mombasa, another 25% in four medium-size cities, while the remaining 50%
are dispersed in rural areas and minor urban centers.
2.07      Projects involving a KIE loan of more than K Shs 3 million (about
US$180,000) amount to only 6% of total projects but account for 40% of
commitments, while projects of less than K Shs .5 million (under US$30,000)
represent more than 70% of all projects but account for less than 20% of
commitments. As a group, the enterprises in the sample imported only 9% of
their raw material requirements, confirming the hypothesis that small
enterprises primarily use locally produced inputs. Larger projects,
however, particularly those costing more than $200,000, tend to import a
higher proportion of their raw material needs. The average cost per job
created by small enterprises is US$5,600, although it is almost US$8,000
for the projects in the relatively capital intensive sectors. Some 60% of
all jobs were created by projects costing less than US$30,000, at an
average cost per job of about US$1,700. Similarly, the cost per job
created in the major urban areas averages US$9,200 compared to an average
cost of US$2,800 for jobs created in rural areas.



- 13 -
2.08      The relative success of projects by size, sector and location can
be ascertained on the basis of KIE evaluations of performance (para. 2.22).
The most successful projects have been those costing less than US$30,000
and those located off estates, in medium-sized cities and in rural areas.
Among subsectors, the pattern is less clear, although service and food
industries appear to be more successful than other indus -ies. Least
successful were projects in the wood, printing, clothing, leather and the
construction industries.
2.09      A post evaluation of 109 subprojects (Annex 4) funded under the
first IDA credit shows that the IDA subprojects fared better than KIE's
non-IDA portfolio: 73% of the projects are rated successful and 16%
unsuccessful, compared to 55% and 33% respectively for the non-IDA
portfolio. Some 800 jobs were created by 65 IDA subprojects for which
information is available at a cost of about US$3,600 per job compared to
US$5,600 for the entire KIE portfoliu. About 75% of the subprojects were
for loans below $30,000. Some 64% of the subprojects are owner-managed,
81% are headed by individuals with previous experience in management and/or
with technical skills relevant to the present type of operation, and 93%
are located outside the estates. These subprojects have had a
significantly better success record than those that do not meet these
criteria. Over 80% of the IDA subprojects were in relatively labor
intensive subsectors, with food products representing the largest single
subsector, and 50% were located in small towns or rural areas. Experience
with these subprojects suggests that (i) IDA's involvement in subproject
review has improved the prospects for project success; (ii) projects which
were owner-roperated, located off estates, small, labor intensive and
located outside major cities, in addition to furthering Government
objectives better than other types of projects, have also been more
successful; and (iii) KIE has used the first IDA credit predominantly for
projects with the same characteristics which KIE, with IDA encouragement,
is now targeting for all of its lending (para. 2.17).
2.10      Organization and Management.  KIE's organization chart is shown
in Annex 5. In March, 1986, a new Managing Director was appointed. KIE's
previous Managing Director had served since 1977 and was key to a
significant reorganization and reorientation of KIE. The new Managing
Director is committed to implementing the reforms initiated by her
predecessor. KIE's Operations Manager, who has been with KIE since its
inception, is also committed to the new program of reforms.
2.11      At headquarters, KIE has nine departments including three lending
operations departments (newly reorganized in consultation with lDA) for
Appraisals, Implementation, and Supervision and Entrepreneur Training; two
small departments for industrial estate and technical service center (TSC)
activities; and four administrative and financial support departments: the
personnel, finance, legal and internal audit departments. In addition,
eight regional managers report to senior management and, in turn, supervise
20 Rural Industrial Development Centers (RIDC) and Investment Promotion
Area (IPA) managers within their respective regions (para. 2.26). KIE's



- 14 -
organization is appropriately decentralized, with regional managers
wielding considerable influence regarding project selection, promotion and
appraisal, as well as industrial estate management. Almost 70% of KIE's
support staff are employed outside headquarters in the regions.
2.12      Personnel and Staff Training.  KIE has a personnel department
consisting of five staff to handle personnel, administrative and staff
training functions. KIE's manpower plan for the next four years does not
show much overall growth, except for supervision and training officers
(para. 2.20) and the establishment of a new Entrepreneur Credit Evaluation
Unit (para. 2.18).
2.13      While staff turnover is satisfactory, morale is high, and the
staff is enthusiastic and hard working, KIE finds recruiting and retaining
high quality professional staff difficult because it was assigned (at a
time when it was largely a promotional rather than a financial institution)
a significantly lower salary grade structure than other parastatal
development banks and commercial banks with whom KIE competes for staff.
As KIE's salary structure is not congruent with its functions and places it
at a significant competitive disadvantage in building a high quality staff,
IDA is actively supporting KIE's request to obtain an upward revision in
its salary structure classification. Government has approved a scheme to
review public service salaries, including KIE, and intends to harmonize the
salaries and terms of service for its DFIs-an action which would result in
improving KIE's salary structure. During negotiations, Government agreed
to keep IDA informed of progress on its review of KIE's salary structure.
In the interim, KIE does have some latitude to -pgrade salaries to more
realistic levels through generous job ratings, c:.g., rating project
officers as Deputy Division Managers- and providing better fringe
benefits, e.g., home mortgages to key staff.
2.14      KIE has given high priority for several years to upgrading its
staff through an effective training program and utilized US$300,000 from
the first IDA credit, among other sources, for its training programs
in-country and abroad. KIE has prepared a new three-year staff training
program which utilizes both local, in-house capacity as well as overseas
institutions for training in project processing, accounting and financial
analysis. The finance and project appraisal staffs (both at headquarters
and in the regional offices) would be the chief beneficiaries of the
training program. NORAD has indicated an interest in supporting this
program. In addition, the proposed Deputy Managers for Project Supervision
and Entrepreneur Training (para. 2.20 and 2.21) would be important sources
of in-house training for KIE's staff.
2.15      Project Appraisal and Lending Guidelines.  KIE's headquarters
appraisal department consists of five professional engineers and economists
who carry out Nairobi area appraisals and review the bulk of the appraisals
prepared regionally. Each region has an economist, an engineer and
RIDC/IPA managers who prepare the appraisals. All project loans of over K
Sh 500,000 (about US$30,000) are reviewed by a headquarters Project Review



- 15 -
Committee which is chaired by the Operations Manager and includes the
managers of project preparation, supervision, project implementation,
finance and the legal department before being presented to KIE's Board.
KIE has requested German technical assistance to finance a Financial
Analyst for two years to provide technical assistance in the financial
evaluation of project proposals to help strengthen the department. During
negotiations, it was agreed that a Financial Analyst, with qualifications,
experience and terms of referen e suitable to IDA, would be appointed no
later than December 31, 1986. To capitalize on the experience of its
supervision officers, KIE also plans to utilize its supervision personnel
to prepare a number of expansion and rehabilitation projects which are
expected to result from the improved supervision program.
2.16      KIE's appraisal reports have, in the past, been of mixed quality
because of, inter alia, overly optimistic assumptions and inadequate
attention to marketing, managerial and working capital requirements. To
strengthen its appraisals, KIE has implemented an expanded appraisal report
format, giving better coverage to assumptions used, marketing analysis,
project risks, sensitivity of financial rate of return and debt service
coverage to lower than projected levels of production, the entrepreneur's
managerial capability, and a simplified economic rate of return analysis
for projects over K Sh 500,000. KIE has also begun to prepare subsector
industry profiles based on actual KIE experience in various subsectors
which outline project costs, unit sales prices and costs, production and
sales levels, and problems. The initial profiles have been very useful in
improving the quality of assumptions and projections for new appraisals and
in anticipating potential problems.
2.17      In its future project appraisals, KIE plans to shift its emphasis
to more successful subgroups which are more fully congruent with Government
objectives. KIE has changed its loan targeting (Annex 6) and will not
ordinarily make a first loan to an entrepreneur of more than K Sh 3 million
(US$180,000) or lend to projects with total fixed assets in excess of
US$300,000. In no case will disbursements to any one project total more
than K Sh 5 million (US$300,000). KIE will place more emphasis on
experienced entrepreneurs, owner-operated projects, expansions of
successful smaller projects, and projects which do not, themselves,
directly import raw materials or depend on tariff protection. Although
making KIE's appraisal criteria more stringent may slow the growth of its
portfolio, projects with these characteristics have been more successful,
entailing less risk for KIE (and less provisions expense) as well as
producing relatively higher economic benefits. KIE is also considering
lending for tourism and local transport projects in addition to its
industrial, construction and service industry lending. KIE has amended its
operational guidelines to incorporate agreed changes in lending policy and
targeting and has agreed not to amend its operating guidelines without
prior consultation with IDA.
2.18      Many KIE projects have experienced serious problems due to
inadequate capitalization, cost overruns, implementation delays and larger



- 16 <
than anticipated working capital requirements. To reduce these risks, in
June 1984 KIE increased its minimum equity requirements from 15% of total
project cost to 30% for owner-operated enterprises and 40% for projects
that are not owner-operated. KIE now requires senior officers to interview
prospective entrepreneurs before a project is approved and is setting up a
new entrepreneur credit evaluation section within the Finance Department.
The unit will prepare a separate written credit evaluation which will
examine the entrepreneurs' financial position, credit reputation and
ability to raise equity and any required revolving working capital
requirements. KIE, per its objectives, will continue to lend to many
entrepreneurs who could not get loans from commercial banks and NBFIs
because of the conservative collateral requirements of these institutions,
but its collateral requirements are sufficient (including all items
financed under its loans) to reduce KIE's risk and commit the entrepreneur
fully to the project. During negotiations, KIE agreed to recruit a
qualified Kenyan to head its credit evaluation section as a condition of
effectiveness.
2.19      Project Implementation, Supervision and Entrepreneur Training.
KIE established two new departments in October 1984 to provide effective
support to its clients so as to reduce the number of failing projects and
assist entrepreneurs to grow. The first, a Project Implementation and
Technical Support Department, has four engineers, under the Chief Engineer,
with responsibilities for reviewing appraisal documents, assisting
entrepreneurs in dealing with suppliers, providing routine support for
installation of plant and machinery, liaising with accounting on
disbursements, briefing entrepreneurs on correct maintenance and machine
usage procedures, and providing a consulting service to troubleshoot on
technical problems for ongoing operations.
2.20      KIE's recent decision to establish the second department for
supervision and entrepreneur training represents a fundamental change in
KIE's strategy to prepare projects and entrepreneurs more carefully and
provide them with substantial technical assistance. It reflects a
recognition on KIE's part that project follow-up is necessary to maximize
the prospects that its loans will prove successful and is a much needed
break with the past emphasis on aggressive promotion. The new department,
initially staffed with six project officers and managed by its most
experienced project officer, will consist of a supervision division and an
entrepreneur training division. The supervision division will have 12
professional staff, including at least one in each region. It plans
regular visits to all projects during the first two years of operation and
intensive visitation to problem projects to assist entrepreneurs to
evaluate their financial position, solve problems, identify any need for
a KIE engineer to provide consulting assistance, as well as to file reports
with headquarters. This division will also be responsible for implementing
KIE's efforts to rehabilitate selected problem projects and will appraise
expansion projects which may be identified in the context of its
supervision visits. Once KIE's project implementation and supervision
functlins are soundly established in the regions, it hopes to expand these



- 17 -
services to assist non-KIE financed entrepreneurs (for a fee). IDA has
agreed to finance a Deputy Manager for supervision for two years under the
new credit to establish effective procedures and reporting systems and to
train a counterpart take over this new function.
2.21      In another positive development, KIE is also recruiting
professional staff for a new entrepreneur training division which will
expand KIE's ongoing training programs for existing entrepreneurs (handled
previously by the personnel department) and establish a "front-end"
training program, obligatory for all prospective entrepreneurs before
project implementation, with the exception of those with unusually strong
business experience. KIE's past entrepreneur training efforts have had
mixed results, as differing approaches were implemented by individual
expatriate advisors with little KIE staff participation. As a result, KIE
was unable to develop a consistent or clearly defined overall KIE program.
Consultants, funded under Credit 750-KE, have assisted KIE in assessing its
training needs and preparing preliminary guidelines for setting up a
comprehensive training program for its clients. KIE is now in the process
of selecting a training expert for the Deputy Manager position for
Entrepreneur Development. As in the case of its supervision support, KIE
plans to make its training programs available to non-KIE financed
entrepreneurs as well as its own clients. IDA has agreed to fund the
position of Deputy Manager for entrepreneur training for two years under
the new credit to establish the program on a sound footing and to train a
counterpart. It was agreed during negotiations that recruitment of the
Deputy Managers for supervision and entrepreneur training would be a
condition of effectiveness.
2.22      Debt Collection.  KIE has recently promoted one of its most
senior regional managers to the position of Chief Debt Collector and
shifted the credit control division (five professional staff) from Finance
to his unit. This was done to strengthen debt collection further and to
oversee implementation of a more effective debt collection system which,
since August 1984, has already improved collections substantially
(para. 2.37). The new system places primary responsibility for debt
collection on the regional managers, rather than on the accounting
department as previously, and involves active participation by senior
management to demonstrate that, after years of neglect, KIE is now serious
about being repaid. The new system comprises a management reporting system
which provides monthly comparative information on each regional manager's
debt collection performance. Rewards and penalties are imposed on regional
managers for unusually good and poor performances. On a quarterly basis,
an arrears committee classifies all projects into four categories: "A",
having no problems; 'B", needing technical assistance to solve problems;
C", having major problems requiring legal counsel involvement; and -D',
hopeless projects to be wound up. With the support of Government, KIE has
begun to turn a number of accounts over to external legal counsel for
collection.



<- 18 -.
2.23      In action consistent with IDA advice to -clean up- KIE's
portfolio, the Legal Department, staffed with three lawyers, has acted
decisively on the nearly 200 projects turned over to them over the past two
years. It has initiated an active program of threatened and actual legal
action to obtain payment and/or to collect what money KIE can from hopeless
situations. As a result, KIE has sold some projects to other
entrepreneurs, successfully rehabilitated some others, and liquidated and
written-off a third group. As this intensive 'sweep' of the portfolio
covered a backlog of cases that have accumulated over a number of years,
the need for legal action on new projects is expected to lessen in the
future.
2.24      Finance and Accounts.  KIE's Finance Department has been ably
managed since September of 1982 by an expatriate, funded under IDA Credit
750-KE. The proposed credit will fund an extension of the Finance
Manager's contract for three years. During negotiations, it was agreed
that recruitment of a suitable counterpart for this position would be a
condition of effectiveness. The headquarters professional staff in finance
inc]lude a chicr accountant, seven other accountants, a statistical officer
and a data processing officer. The headquarters staff have responsibility
for budgeting and planning, monitoring branch accounts, general accounting
functions and preparing financial statements. Regional offices are staffed
with accounts clerks and bookkeepers to handle branch accounts.
2.25      KIE, with IDA agreement, appointed new external auditors in 1984
who have provided constructive advice to KIE regarding its accounts and
record keeping procedures and helped KIE arrive at a satisfactory
provisions policy. Although additional improvements are needed, KIE's
accounts are generally satisfactory. KIE has implemented numerous changes
in the last two years to improve TSC records, reconcile its fixed assets
register, establish a register of securities, and ascertain that project
assets are adequately insured and tenancy agreements are valid. Although
provisions have fluctuated widely in the past because of changes in
provisions policies, KIE now has a satisfactory provisions policy calling
for specific provisions based on the valuation of realizeable collateral.
The major weakness is an inadequate mechanized accounting system. KIE is
retaining consultants, funded under Credit 750-KE, to recommend
microcomputer hardware and appropriate software to computerize KIE's
accounts, improve its management information systems and train its staff
in microcomputer applications.
2.26      Industrial Estate Operations.  KIE's industrial estate
operations, which began with the initial construction of sheds in 1967, has
expanded to the point where KIE has constructed and manages about 907,000
sq,uare feet of buildings in 28 locations (Annex 7) involving a total
investment in gross fixed assets of about K Sh 174 million (about US$10.5
million). Based on the size of the estate, the number of staff and its
responsibilities for regional management, the 28 locations are classified
as Industrial Estates (the eight largest, with regional management
responsibilities), 11 Regional Industrial Development Centers (RIDCs) which



e 19 -
are mid-sized, and nine small Investment Promotion Areas (IPAs). Eighteen
locatious have TSCB to provide metal and wood working services to
entrepreneurs. KIE now has 397 sheds (765,000 sq. ft.) for rent of which
337 (82%) were rented in June, 1986. This is a significant improvement
over occupancy rates in 1985, which stood at 61%. Vacancy rates in the
past have been high primarily because KIE has had difficulty in finding
entrepreneurs to rent space in a number of locations. The industrial
estate program employs 296 people, (many work on lending as well as estate
functions) of whom 56 are higher level employees.
2.27      While KIE has implemented physical construction of industrial
estate facilities reasonably efficiently, the program as a whole has not
been successful and has been a heavy drain on KIE financially as well as
administratively. The industrial estate operations lost an estimated K Sh
7.6 million (about US$500,000) representing 66% of KIE's total loss in
1983/84 and a further K Sh 3.8 million in 1984/85 before interest expense.
KIE's projections (assuming no new construction and increasing rents) show
that KIE will continue to experience losses on the industrial estates until
1989 when occupancy rates are projected to reach 90%. Principal reasons
for poor financial performance are the low occupancy rates and below market
rental rates. Poor rental collections, high administrative costs (budgeted
at 6.4% of average net fixed assets in 1985/86), inefficient management
procedures and TSC losses (para. 2.31) also contributed to the losses.
2.28      KIE's industrial estate facilities have been a substantial
element in the Government program for supporting SSI in Kenya and for
encouraging investment in smaller towns where the lack of adequate rental
facilities and infrastructure may create an obstacle to local SSI
development. Industrial estates are a highly visible form of Government's
commitment to SSI development and political considerations have played an
important role in decisions as to where and whether to build such
facilities. In addition to poor financial performance, it is also
questionable as to how successfully the estate program has fulfilled some
of its socio.-economic objectives for the following reasons:
(a) facilities have been built without feasibility studies, hence
the number of sheds and their size do not always relate
well to market demand and construction costs sometimes bear
no relationship to realistic market rental rates for that
locale;
(b) estates are often located several kilometers away from the
market center and from public transport. Such locations are
not appropriate for many SSIs, particularly those that
provide services and sell retail to the public; and
(c) once built, KIE is under pressure to fill the sheds and
appears to have financed more marginal projects (those rated
wC  and "D") on estates than off estates as well as some
projects for which shed size and location are not optimal.



20
Analysis in 1985 shows that for 190 KIE loans on estates, 50%
of these projects are rated as unsuccessful (compared to 23%
rated as unsuccessful among 502 loans off estateg), arrears
affect 88% of portfolio value (compared to 49% for off estate
loans) despite presumably easier access for debt collection
visits, and arrears add to 30% (compared to 11%) of portfolio
values.
2.29      In response to the problems associated with industrial estate
activities, KIU is preparing a real estate management study (carried out by
consultants and funded under the first line of credit) designed to improve
the efficiency of estate management, including inter alia formulating
policies and procedures for reviewing and negotiating rental rates and
terms. KIE has been reluctant to raise rents (they were last raised in
1982) although its policy statement calls for rents to be raised to full
market rates over the long term because previous efforts, where all rents
on an estate were simultaneously raised substantially, were met with loud
protest. The consultants will also recommend procedures for physical
maintenance functions, other changes which might improve efficiency or
reduce costs, and will design a management information system for the
industrial estate activities. In addition, KIE has chenged its rental
lease agreements (most of which are up for renewal annually) to charge 14%
interest on overdue rent together with 2% penalty interest on rental
arrears of more than six months.
2.30      KIE has sharply reduced its new industrial estate construction
program in recent years having initiated construction of only three new
estates since 1983. Two additional estates involving sheds costing
US$380,000 equivalent are presently under consideration for future
construction. In accord with its Statement of Policy [para. 2.33 (c)], KIE
has already agreed not to construct these sheds unless they are finaacially
viable or unless Government agrees that they be constructed for
Government's account under a managed funds agreement. At negotiations,
Government and KIE agreed that KIE would not construct any new industrial
estate facilities unless they are supported by a feasibility study,
satisfactory to IDA, which demonstrates their financial viability. KIE
has amended its policy statement accordingly.
2.31      KIE has been administering 18 TSC's, which are workshops equipped
with woodworking and metal working equipment and are manned by 50 KIE
technical personnel. These workshops, designed to provide access to
lathes, saws and other costly equipment to small-scale entrepreneurs on the
estates for a fee, represent a heavy financial and administrative drain on
KIE. For 1984/85 the TSCs lost K Sh 1.2 million. Subsequently, KIE has
made substantial improvements in these operations by leasing facilities and
sharply cutting back on credit sales and estimated a K Sh 0.1 million loss
in 1985/86 from these activities. The facilities operate at relatively low
levels of capacity and lose money because: (a) accounting control over
inventories and cash sales is poor; (b) bad debt expense is high due to
poor credit policies and poor collections; and (c) KIE employees have



< 21 -
little incentive to inc-ease sales to clients off estates, provide good
service to clients, or make profits.
2.32      KIE has recogaized that sale or lease of existing TSC's would
improve KIE profitability, reduce administrative burden, provide
opportunities for new entrepreneurs and would probably improve the quality
of the technical services provided 4/. Therefore, KIE has agreed to lease
or sell all of its TSCs with the exception of those in Nairobi, Mombasa,
Nakuru and Nyeri (which will be kept longer to allow redeployment of TSC
workers who are displaced and cannot be absorbed elsewhere in KIE).  During
negotiations, KIE agreed to sell or lease 12 TSCs by December 31, 1986. As
of June 30, 1986, KIE has been able to lease nine of these TSCs. Efforts
are already underway to implement this aspect of the project and interested
lessees have been identified for several of the remaining facilities.
2.33      Policy Statement.  KIE's Board adopted a new policy statement
(Annex 8) and operating guidelines which were implemented in July 1984.
Among the significant changes are:
(a)   requiring a 30% minimum equity contribution from owner-operated
projects and 40% from sponsors of projects managed by non-owners;
(b)   increasing its interest rates to 14% for projects with loans
exceeding K Sh 1 million, and 13% for smaller loans (up from 11%
and 10% respectively); and
(c)   confining construction of new industrial estates to financially
viable schemes supported by a feasibility study.
2.34      The policy statement requires KIE to protect itself against
foreign exchange risk, maintain a debt to equity ratio not exceeding 3:1,
and prohibits investing in enterprises with total fixed assets exceeding K
Sh 5 million (US$300,000).  In adlition, it states that KIE will give
preference in its lending to e2terprises utilizing local materials and
technologies and oriented toward exports. KIE also has Operational
Guidelines (para. 2.17) which contain a detailed discussion inter alia of
KIE's role in promotion, loan targeting and lending guidelines.  With
incorporation of a changed policy relating to industrial estate
construction (para. 2.30) and changes in loan targeting, KIE's policy
statement and operational guidelines are satisfactory. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that KIE would not make changes to its policy
statement which would significantly affect its operations and financial
condition without the prior agreement of IDA.
4/ As an example, about one year after KIE leased a TSC in Kisumu to a
private entrepreneur, employment increased from one to 24 people and
sales and profits have improved considerably.



22 t
2.35      Operations.  KIE's net approvals, after growing rapidly to K Sh
58 million in 1981, have remained relatively constant from 1981 to 1984
(Annex 9) and sharply dropped during its fiscal year ending June 30, 1985.
This drop was due to a KIE decision to consolidate its position by (i)
improving its internal procedures and policies; (ii) strengthening its
appraisal capabilities; and (iii) concentrating on collections.
Disbursements averaged about K Sh 45 million per year over the FY82-85
period. KIE did not keep separate data on commitments until 1984.
Undisbursed commitments at June 30, 1986 amount to K Sh 31 million or about
six months of commitments, which is not excessive.
2.36      KIE expects FY86 approvals to reach K Sh 79 million and then
increase 10% in real terms from 1987 onward. KIE estimates these approvals
would comprise about 200 projects (most of them located off estates) in
FY86 growing to about 280 by FY90. KIE's net portfolio wi'l grow from K Sh
218 million in 1985 to K Sh 400 million in 1990, a 13% p.a. increase. As a
result of KIE's imposition of the 30% minimum equity requirement during
1985, average loan size dropped by about 32%. Experience during the year
supported KIE's view that its increased equity requirements would not
significantly impair its ability to meet projected lending targets. KIE's
project pipeline as of June 30, 1985 consisted of over 500 projects
totalling K Sh 216 million (US$13.1 million) in total project costs and
requiring K Sh 149.8 million (US$9.1 million) in loans from KIE. KIE's
pipeline and promotional activities are considered sufficient to ensure
timely commitment of the proposed project. Labor intensive sectors, such
as food, clothing, and woodworking were most heavily represented. In
addition, over 15Z of the pipeline consisted of expansion projects, which
are anticipated to increase more rapidly as KIE begins its more intensified
supervision program (para. 2.20). Decisions in principle by NORAD, KFW and
IDA (all following a period in which they were not providing any new
support) to again provide funding for KIE in response to the significant
improvements KIE has recently implemented will enable KIE to fund this
program of moderate growth.
2.37      Portfolio.  As of June 30, 1986, KIE had K Sh 358 million
(US$21.7 million), in loans outstanding encompassing 678 loans. With the
recent improvements in KIE's collections performance, KIE's arrears
situation has begun to improve. Nonetheless, KIE's portfolio continues to
have a high level of arrears relative to amounts outstanding, as
demonstrated below.



- 23-
(as of Jum 3D, 1986)
Pwtfolio Afectd by              Armars of
PkqsectB                             Total                  kAreas of auer 3  mt 3hm3Itl
Value d                             Value   Value Part.   Total    % of
No. of   Ptfolio    of        D. of   Z of   (K Sh  Affecte as %   (K Sh    Ttal
Pr ts (K Sh fixi) Wam1 1oelPjcshi                    ) Vta Port.  min) Bortfolio,
A. OpeGtk vdLut
pro                439        181.4     521      168      38%      84.8      24%         14.3       4S
B.   peratirg with
probls              80        90.1       2        78      97%      8.2        25%        37.6      IC%
C. & D.
-xal  wlth
mJor prohlm        159        86.4       24Z    124        78S     70.4       20%        35.5      lOZ
otal as of 6/30/86    678        357.9      100%    370       55%    244.4       6Z          87.4      24
Total as of 12/31/85   630       33.9       100%    354       56%    232.6       6BZ         76.4      22%
Total as of 12/31/84   655       309.1      100%    369       56%    186.9       6m          58.3     19%
Tor3l as of 12/31/83   614       231.4      100%    423       69%    138.4       60%         53.0      23
llactior Perf vonme (Ksh Wd1f)
'MMW adIg bal NNiw Atms Gfrg   e amral Amts CUwted ai llfectxi Patio (%)
S-bPtser 30, 1983                          8.3                            5.3                     64%
Dieber 31, 1983                            9.0                           4.9                      54%
1- d1 31, 1984                             9.7                            6.7                     70%
Juz  3D, 1984                             10.3                            7.4                     72%
Setmber 30, 1984                          13.3                            7.5                     56%
;icamber 31, 1984                         11.8                           10.4                     88%
1- cb31, 1985                             11.7                           10.4                     89Z
Jur 3D, 1985                              12.3                           11.9                     97%
September 30, 1985                        13.0                           8.8                      68%
Diter  31, 1985                           13.8                            7.9                      57z
arch  31) 1986                            13.3                           12.4                      93
Cllecti   ratio for year edJure 30, 1984                  65%
CODlectiixs ratio for yar eded Jume 30, 1985              82Z
odleCtIos mrtio for 6 nmdts &add Deribe 31, 1985          62%
Cllectiors ratio for 6 mmtit  wAd  Juete 3D, 1986         81Z



- 24 -
2.38      Between December 31, 1983 and December 31, 1984 arrears of more
than three months declined as a percentage of portfolio from 23% to 19%,
and the percentage of projects experiencing arrears had dropped from 69% to
56%. The value of the portfolio affected by arrears of three months
remained unchanged, however, at 60%, due to the new accrued interest on
accounts with large arrears. Provisions constituted a high 18% of
outstanding balances, primarily due to large provisions expenses in the
period 1982-1984. Collections ratios since January 1, 1985 have averaged
over 80% of new amounts coming due compared with 65% during 1984. In
recent months, however, KIE's arrears situation has deteriorated some, as
it had initially tackled the most 'collectable- arrears. KIE's senior
management also originally spearheaded the collections drive, but has since
had to again turn attention to other matters as well. KIE now has a Chief
Debt Collector in place and improved debt collection procedures and
enhanced project implementation support and supervision should help KIE to
gradually improve its arrears situation. In the quarter ended March 31,
1986 KIE was able to boost its collections performance, collecting about
93% of new amounts coming due in the quarter. While arrears remain
serious, as in the case of many development finance institutions (DFIs)
world-wide, KIE's portfolio is improving and is, in fact, better than that
of several other Eastern African DFIs. Annex 10 shows that in 1984 nearly
60% of KIE's loans, representing about 40X of loan balances outstanding
were rated as relatively problem free, while 30% of loans (32% of loan
balances outstanding) represented major problem projects. By 1986, 65% of
loans and 51% of loan balances outstanding were rated as problem-free.
2.39      KIE inherited a number of loans from its parent ICDC in 1978
including 41 loans which, as of December 1984, had a balance of K Sh 44.4
million outstanding. By June 30, 1986, KIE had reduced these loans to 32,
with a balance of K Sh 38.4 million. One hundred percent of the value of
these loans is affected by arrears which amount to more than 11% of the
amounts outstanding and constitute 23% of KIE's total loan arrears.
Eighteen of these projects are categorized as -C- or -D- projects,
collections are low, and KIE has already taken about K Sh 25 million in
writeoffs and provisions against the ICDC portfolio. To the extent
possible, KIE has been taking legal steps to liquidate the worst performing
projects in this group.
2.40      Some 20 "sensitive" loans (five inherited from ICDC) to
politically influential persons in Kenya, constitute some 3% of KIE's
projects but account for 15% of portfolio balances. KIE, with support from
Government, has begun an aggressive effort to collect arrears on sensitive
loans in conjunction with its other collections. KIE has collected in full
or disposed of three additional -sensitive- loans, and is steadily
collecting from many other accounts. KIE is dealing satisfactorily with
the sensitive loan problem by continuing to make active efforts to collect
these loans, taking legal action where possible, 'publicizing these
arrears to the Board and Government and, more importantly, avoiding new
loans of this type by raising equity requirements to 40% and applying the
same rigorous criteria applied to all KIE loans.



- 25 -
2.41      Financial Restructuring Plan.  The Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry have, with active KIE support, prepared a
cabinet paper 5/ proposing a major financial restructuring of KIE designed
to place it on a sounder financial base, achieve financial self-sufficiency
and meet its debt service obligations to Government as scheduled. The
proposed restructuring is a clear signal from Government that it supports
KIE's objective to become a financially autonomous institution. Without
this restructuring, KIE's debt to equity ratio would soon exceed KIE's 3 to
1 debt to equity ratio limitation. KIE would also experience losses over
the next several years and would not service its debt due to Government.
Its major elements include:  (1) conversion of   K Sh 139.2 million in
Government loans, equivalent to the book value of the industrial estates,
to equity (this would reduce the debt to equity ratio from 2.8 to 0.6); (2)
conversion of K Sh 108 million in loans (including funds onlent from IDA),
into a 'Term Loan Fund' repayable over 15 years and carrying interest of 6Z
p.a. 6/; (3) conversion of the remaining K Sh 114 million in Government
loans7into a non-repayable "Revolving Loan Fund" bearing interest of 3%
p.a.; (4) requiring KIE to repay a K Sh 17.4 million loan to ICDC and to
pay its debt service obligations to Government on schedule; and (5)
directing KIE to pay 15% of future profits as dividends. The cabinet
paper, in a form satisfactory to IDA, has just been approved by Cabinet.
During negotiations, it was agreed that satisfactory implementation of the
plan by KIE would be a condition of effectiveness.
2.42      Financial Condition and Performance.  KIE's actual and projected
financial statements for 1981-1990 are shown in Annexes 11, 12 and 13 and
selected financial ratios are contained in Annex 14. KIE made losses in
three of the past five years, due primarily to large provisions for bad
debt. Although net losses have fluctuated widely because of inconsistent
accounting policies for provisions expense, KIE's operating profits before
provisions (averaging 1Z of average total assets between 1982 and 1984)
have steadily improved as they rose to K Sh 7.1 million in 1984 (1.6% of
average total assets) and reached K Sh 14.7 million (3% of average total
assets) in 1985. KIE's past poor financial performance can be attributed
to Mi) losses incurred on its industrial estate and TSC activities; (ii)
necessarily high administrative costs; and (iii) high provisions due to the
poor quality both of its loan portfolio and of the loans inherited from
ICDC.
5/ In 1984, the Government announced its intention to restructure the
debt burden of some parastatals as a step towards subjecting them to
more financial discipline and facilitating repayment of debt to
Government. KIE is the first such parastatal to be considered in light
of this new policy orientation.
6/ The onlending agreement for IDA fund, under Credit 750-KE specifies a 6%
interest rate.



- 26 -
2.43      KIE anticipates steady improvements in profitability in future
years as its change in strategy in cunjunction with the proposed IDA credit
should lead to better projects, lower provisions, smaller losses on
industrial estate activity and higher spreads due to increased interest
rates. Given the wide geographic dispersion of KIE's activities and the
labor intensive nature of lending to SSIs, KIE's administrative expenses as
a percentage of total assets are at a reasonable level. Administrative
costs as a percentage of average assets for KIE's lending activities (the
appropriate basis for comparison with other DFIs) will remain near or about
their present level of 4.3%. KIE's total administrative costs will
necessarily be slightly higher as a percentage of total assets,
however-averaging 5.3% during the same period-because of KIE's extensive
estate activAties (for which administrative costs will rise to about 7% of
average assets by 1990 as assets are depreciated and costs rise with
inflation). To reduce administrative costs, KIE is taking a number of
steps to improve its efficiency including: (i) computerization of its
accounts; (ii) implementation of appropriate management information systems
for lending and estate operations; (iii) selling or leasing TSCs; and (iv)
undertaking a real estate management study. Profits before tax budgeted at
K Sh 10.1 million in 1986 are projected to rise steadily to K Sh 30.6
million (4.6% of average total assets) by 1990. Assuming that KIE will be
subject to income tax under the terms of the financial restructuring, KIE's
net profits will improve during the forecast period, averaging 2.6% of net
worth between 1985-1990, compared with its negative return on equity during
the period 1981-1984. With better collections, provisions are projected to
decline from 17% of gross portfolio in 1985 to 12% in 1990, and arrears of
three months or more will also decline from 19% in 1985 to 15% in 1990.
During negotiations, KIE agreed to submit its Operating Plan to IDA by
April 1 of each year for review. The Or rating Plan includes operations
and financial projections for 5 years on a rolling basis, with targets for
improving profitability, increasing collections and lowering arrears.
Through its annual review of KIE's Operating Plan, IDA will be able to
monitor KIE's efforts to continuously improve its performance during the
life of the project.
2.44      KIE's recent growth has been modest, with average total assets
growing about 15% per annum in nominal terms during the last three years.
Its financial condition is sound with its June 30, 1985 audited balance
sheet showing a very strong 0.6 following restructuring (para. 2.41). KIE
has consistently maintained a strong liquidity position with ample cash
balances. About 28% of KIE's total assets were invested in net fixed
assets on industrial estates in 1985, which earn a negative return on
assets employed (para. 2.27). This relative burden will decrease as net
fixed assets drop steadily to 20% of total assets by 1990, and as KIE takes
steps to improve the profitability of these activities. Debt service
coverage will be a low 1.0 in 1987 when KIE expects to repay a K Sh 17
million ICDC loan in full, but will rise to a satisfactory 2.4 by 1990.



- 27 -
2.45      Cash Impact on Government Budget.  KIE's improved financial
position will enable it to cease being a net burden on the Government
budget. Indeed, KIE plans to pay in to Government a net of about K Sh
159 million in positive cash inflow during 1986-1990 compared with a net
K Sh 106 million outflow during 1982-1985 as shown below.
KIE Net Cash Impact on Government
(K Sh million)
1982-85         1986-90
Government Cash Outflows to KIE
Equity Contributions                                38.0              0.0
Loans (excluding those onlent from foreign          68.5             33.5
donor sources)
Total                                          106.5             33.5
Government Cash Inflows from KIE
Loan Interest                                        -               71.4
Loan Repayments                                      -               65.1
Dividends                                            -                7.7
Taxes                                                -               48.6
Total                                           -               19Z 8
Net Cash Flow (Outflow) to Government             (106.5)           159.3
2.46      Resources.  KIE depends largely on Government and donor agencies
for funding. As 100% shareholders of KIE, Government had provided K Sh 153
million in equity and K Sh 290.6 million in loans and income notes as of
June 30, 1986. In addition, KIE has received K Sh 67 millioa in loans from
KFW, K Sh 49 million from IDA and K Sh 39 million in grants from NORAD.
The Basic Data shows KIE's resource position as of June 30, 1986. At that
time, KIE had K Sh 102 million (about US$6.2 million) available for future
commitments.
2.47      KIE's projected total resource requirements for the three and
one-half year period ending December 31, 1989 are estimated at K Sh 422
million (US$25.6 million) with a gap (Annex 15) before external funding of
K Sh 202 million (US$12 million). In addition to the proposed US$5 million
line of credit which would fund 42% of KIE's total resource gap, KIE
expects to receive additional external funding including a new K Sh 45.4
million line of credit (US$2.7 million equivalent) from KFW, K Sh 17.3
million (excluding K Sh 6 million in technical assistance funds) in new



- 28 -
grants from NORAD (US$1.0 million) and K Sh 14.6 million in new Government
loans (US$0.9 million). In addition, KIE is discussing a possible new line
of credit with the African Development Bank.
III. THE CREDIT
A. Features of the Proposed Credit
3.01       The proposed IDA credit of SDR5.8 million (US$6 million
equivalent) would be made to the Government of Kenya on normal IDA terms.
The Government would onlend US$5 million from the proposed credit to KIE,
under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA, with a fixed
amortization schedule for 15 years, including three years grace. The
Government would pass on US$1 million to KIE as a grant for technical
assistance (para. 3.06).
3.02      The Government would onlend US$5 million equivalent by way of a
credit line to KIE at 6% interest p.a. This rate is consistent with the
onlending agreement for the first credit, with the terms set forth by
Government under the proposed financial restructuring of KIE and with their
general policy for interest rates to be charged for other parastatals. In
addition to the interest expense, KIE has agreed to place funds equivalent
to 3% annual interest on the IDA funds onlent from Government ($150,000
when fully disbursed) under the credit into a supervision expense account
to cover the significant new costs associated with intensive technical
assistance and training support for entrepreneurs. Given the lack of
sophistication of small-scale borrowers who would benefit from this line of
credit, Government would bear the exchange rate risk on the proceeds onlent
to KIE. Clients would, however, be charged a new 1% p.a. supervision fee
(to be charged on all new KIE loans in lieu of a foreign exchange risk fee
which would apply only to some lending) in addition to interest charges.
3.03      KIE would relend funds from the line of credit to its borrowers
at its usual interest rates of 13% and 14% p.a., plus the 1% p.a.
supervision fee with fixed amortization schedules depending on the nature
and debt servicing capacity of the subproject. In addition, KIE charges
commitment fees of 1% p.a. on undisbursed commitments, up to 1% for
appraisal and feasibility studies, and 2% penalty interest on arrears.
KIE's interest rates are essentially the same as present commercial bank
interest rates and are positive in real terms (inflation was 10.7% as
measured by a CPI index in 1984-85 and is expected to decline further).
Nonetheless, during negotiations KIE agreed to consult with IDA on its
interest rate structure on an annual basis in light of prevailing economic
conditions and commercial bank overdraft lending rates.
3.04      The subloans would finance plant and equipment, machinery and
permanent working capital requirements of subprojects. As most SSI
projects would require loans for goods either imported or locally
fabricated with imported inputs, IDA funds would finance 90% of the amount



- 29 -
of the individual KIE subloans, equivalent to the estimated direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs of subprojects.
3.05      KIE would be allowed a free limit of US$75,000.  This limit would
enable IDA to review about 10X of the subloans financed under the credit.
In addition, supervision missions will review a sample of free-limit
subprojects to ascertain that these projects meet acceptable appraisal
standards and are in line with project objectives.
3.06      The technical assistance component would provide $900,000 to
finance Deputy Managers for the new entrepreneur training and supervision
functions and continued financing of the Finance Manager position. This
component will also include $100,000 to fund entrepreneur training costs
and a survey to identify opportunities for SSI to provide more intermediate
term inputs to medium- and large-scale industry.
B. Project Implementation
3.07      Reporting Requirements.  During negotiations, KIE agreed to
submit quarterly reports which would include a summary of operations,
financial statements, cash flow statements, debt collection performance,
and statement of arrears. It would also be required to submit audited
annual accounts, prepared in accordance with IDA guidelines for audits of
DFCs, by qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months after
the close of the fiscal year. Finally, KIE agreed to submit its Annual
Operating Plan (para. 2.43) by April 1 each year to IDA for review, in
order to monitor KIE's progress in improving its financial and portfolio
performance. KIE's past audit report and quarterly submissions have been
satisfactory.
3.08      Procurement and Consultants' Services.  Procurement of goods and
services under the line of credit to KIE would be in accord with KIE's
procurement guidelines and consistent with procedures followed by other
IDA-assisted DFIs, namely requiring the entrepreneur to obtain three
quotations through comparative shopping. KIE's procurement policies are
satisfactory. The qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of
advisers to KIE, financed under the technical assistance component, would
be subject to the approval of IDA and would comply with Bank Group
guidelines.
C. Disbursement
3.09      Proceeds of the credit component to KIE would finance 90% of the
amount of subloans approved by KIE, representing the estimated direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs of subprojects. Proceeds of the technical
assistance component would finance (i) 100% of salary, airfares and
transport expense for expatriate consultants and (ii) 80% of the cost of
local consultants and related office expenses.



- 30 -
3.10      In order to expedite disbursement of funds under the credit,
Government will establish a Special Account in KIE's name with an initial
deposit of US$300,000 equivalent with a commercial bank from which KIE
would finance expenditures (consultants' services and training) against
full documentation and expenditures for subloans against statements of
expenditure certified by KIE. The account would be replenished by IDA in
accordance with agreed procedures. During negotiations, it was agreed that
establishment of the special account would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.11      The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 16) corresponds to
the region-wide disbursement profile for the IDF sector (eight years).
Assuming the loan becomes effective by the second quarter of FY87, the
credit component is expected to be fully disbursed by the second quarter of
FY95. The technical assistance component should be fully disbursed by the
fourth quarter of FY89. The last date for submission of subprojects would
be December 31, 1989 and the closing date would be December 31, 1994.
D. Benefits and Risks
3.12      The project is expected to play a significant role in supporting
the Government's objectives to provide assistance to small-scale
enterprises in the form of an integrated program of credit, training and
technical assistance. Strengthening KIE, Government's primary channel for
SSI support, is an important element in enhancing the effectiveness of this
program. KIE has already significantly improved its efficiency and
performance during project preparation and further improvements are
expected during its implementation. Tangible support to KIE at this point
in its institutional development would help maintain the momentum created
by its recent achievements with resulting benefit to the Kenyan small-scale
industry sector. As KIE continues to mature as a financially responsible
institution (while retaining its developmental orientation), its new
projects are expected to be better prepared and supervised than were its
previous ones (paras. 2.15-2.21). It is estimated that about 200
entrepreneurs would be assisted by the project and some 1,500 jobs would be
created at an estimated average cost per job of US$5,000.
3.13      Most KIE projects would be located in rural areas where economic
expansion, resulting from the Government's increased emphasis on
agriculture, provides a stimulus. Consequently, the credit would provide
for parallel and mutually reinforcing growth in both agriculture and
industry: small-scale industry would supply simple manufactured goods to
satisfy demands originating from growing agricultural incomes and would
also process agriculture products. In addition to furthering Government's
regional development objectives, the project would reduce pressure on the
balance of payments through the production of goods for the domestic market
using primarily local inputs.  The broadening of the entrepreneurial class
through the creation of a namber of new, geographically widely-dispersed
African entrepreneurs ir, pernaps, the most important benefit. This is
particularly timely as the success of the macro-economic adjustment
policies of the Government depend on visible improvement in the fortunes of



- 31 <
segments of the population which will be most positively affected by this
project.
3.14      The major project risk is that, despite the substantial progress
to date, KIE may depart from its present drive toward becoming a more
efficient, more financially independent channel for providing financial and
technical assistance services to small enterprises. This risk is
mitigated, however, by several safeguards already built into KIE's
operational guidelines to include: (i) constructing industrial estates
only if they can be shown to be financially and economically viable; (ii)
placing more emphasis on expansion of existing successful small
enterprises; and (iii) giving preference to smaller new projects which can
later expand if successful. Government commitment to the KIE program and
its objectives to become a sound institution provides further assurance
that pressures for non-economic decisions will be reduced. KIE's improved
performance, which has now been sustained for over a year, has been
followed closely by other donors and has convinced them to revive their
support for the institution. KIE will also receive continued technical
assistance in the area of financial management and new technical assistance
in the areas of entrepreneur training and supervision. KIE's recent
improvements have been achieved in close cooperation with IDA staff. As
previously, supervision missions will closely monitor KIE's progress and
assist in the implementation of the agreed program.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, agreements and understandings were reached
with the Government and KIE on the following:
(a) With the Government that it will:
(i)   keep IDA informed of progress on its review of KIE's salary
structure within the framework of its ongoing review of
salaries of its public service staff (para. 2.13); and
(ii)  establish a Special Account in KIE's name with a commercial
bank for expediting disbursements out of the IDA credit
before credit effectiveness (para. 3.10).
(b) With KIE that it will:
(i) recruit a qualified person to head its entrepreneur credit
evaluation section (para. 2.18) and a qualified counterpart
to the expatriate Finance Manager (para. 2.24) before
effectiveness;
(ii) make no amendments in its operational guidelines without
prior consultation with IDA (para. 2.17);



32 -
(iii) recruit Deputy Managers for its entrepreneur training
and supervision functions as a condition of effectiveness
(para. 2.21);
(iv) recruit a Financial Analyst for KIE's Appraisal Department
by December 31, 1986 (para. 2.15);
(v) build no new industrial estate facilities unless
they are supported by a feasibility study, satisfactory to
IDA, which demonstrates their financial viability (para.
2.30);
(vi) sell or lease 12 TSC facilities by December 31, 1986
(para. 2.32);
(vii) make no change in its policy statement which would
significantly affect its operations and financial condition
without the prior agreement of IDA (para. 2.34);
(viii) implement those aspects of the financial restructuring
paper which are immediately implementable as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 2.41);
(ix) submit its Annual Operating Plan to IDA for review no later
than April 1 of each year (para. 2.43);
(x) consult with IDA on its interest rate structure on an
annual basis, in light of prevailing economic conditions
and commercial bank overdraft lending rates (para. 3.03);
and
(xi) submit its audited accounts to IDA within six month, of the
end of its fiscal year and submit quarterly reports to IDA
(para. 3.07).



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit/
Analysis of KIE Project Impact 1977-85 -
=w -         ..        q-I
_________________________________1__1,11,11111 kim           of           S V9                      11.2lg       mB      ft. 9    Cam  Po
i!                           -      .n'   *             .   to-           M    .       -                          1s V 'b1                       -                 t 3J      I_
'         .                       a                                                              11          a.a          i "   t   "   *s  us D1
tIl   -i.a           -                     U _1 a                           Uto                                     UI                          .1    U     I-       US         U
9111   .I.24M la   m            3P        .L        -.L        R            -a           61         -a            -I             -a            .L          B9       -2UL 
1~   lon                        a         .1        a             II           W            ft           s             aW            a           1 n     *isa * .U
*L_
2         a         Its          Is            *                                                                IL ..II    M        03
Oki15~                                     =          ,                                                5                          15       u     4          15    u  
*_m.RI   CM"   U                          U        .6         U            U            1-           U a          U              12                      in        1         la
bui                                  in  .*              AM            Sp            a           isI           4              a            .A         is         W        JA
muln                     43~,      S         a                      1                         ,S           LI             1             .2         Llk       WI5      LD
_ lD~~~~ U                                LO         1~            is            2          15                          U             .4         iii       15)       EU
_-~ 2                                   u.       ..           A            ...              *                       A            .            *         .s       A.
~aL CmM   ,1                    ,         *,   i              *            ,           .2           ..            .5             A|           ..          ,         B 
am Km as                                  m        L u                      I      .        *          n                                                  15      2.. 
U                  15        SI             5      2     1                         9              5            .          D        5L'        1  nI
g         .      r            .         *            n                15           AAa .3  I                                          As
Iks3  ki                        1         15       1.1        Ia            15           U           u5           U1              1            .1          1        *Y1       I
-La                                      -         _.                     -A- _                                   A              A It  c
IkJgeas k_             a_ _         -              .         I             II           15 l                      ID  _ ,        15 .... .1               64       56F        la
7UT"I                                     _a                  -M                                                   -L& __ _U *  1    _  _ _ _  11. 12           '' __
v""In                               im         .1        l                           a                         la            15            .3          W      L.I          U*
m                                  is        L6       1.0        a5            a            II                        atI           to            .1          a5       .21       IL
us                                          IF.2 LW2      1           is           34             as            .2         1       1.1n        U
ft  M-         .U-.r.                     aca   ....         .   dm.ffiam  b-     C                      m
~mV.L  w.3m3.  -. im   .I - IC-W. I    2             15 I     I. 1164& au  62  ...  I...%    *1   .I p11
j 25gm  Cmi em     anI  mm.*m. * in.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
[GE SeCaixi lmI Scale Indutry Credit
Interest Rate Stucture in Kenya 1980-1985 (Z)
Year R&rimg Deoinber 31              1980           1982            1984              1985
1. Deposit Rates
( 1ercia Blk Tin  Eaposits
9-12 umttlr                  6.35        L3.37-13.79    11.75-12.00      11.75-12.00
Commercial BEmk Savis            6.00          12.90           11.00            11.00
Hbre-Purdcse and
1lrclunt Bats                  8.00-11.00    13.25-16.25    13.00-14.50      130D-14.50
Thriidlz  Scieties             6.00-9.50       15.25        13.00-14.25      13.00-14.25
Ibst Office Savirgs Bark          6.00         10.OD           11.00            11.00
2. LeinAg Rates
Quuerclal Banks (overdrafts)     11.00         16.00           14.00            14.00
Hire PErclase and
-brclunt Balis                10.00-14.00      16.00           19.00             M9.O0
arildig SDcieties (ortgages)  1l.O-13.00       16.00           16.00            16.00
Cntral Bark advances al
Teasury BIlls                     8.00         14.50           12.00            12.00
KIE (loal arrency)            10.0O-11.00    10.00-11.00    13.0-14.00      13.00-14.00
TnlatiiX (CPI)                   11.3)         22.30            9.10            10.70



- 35 -
Annez 3
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
SSI Term Lenders in Kenya: A Comparison of Policy
(K Sh '000)
KIE           SEFCO            ICDC             KCFC
Interest Rates                 13-14%          8-12Z              15%             14Z (+ 12 fx)
Maturity                     up to 8 yrs    3-10 yrs           up to 5 yrs      up to 8 yrs
including      including         including        including
1-2 yrs grace  1-2 yrs grace    i yr grace        2 yrs grace
Minimum Loan Size               n.a.            n.a.              10              30
Maximum Loan Size              3,500           1,500             2.000           8,250
Equity Contribution               30%            10%              20Z             25%



- 36 -
35 TA                                           ANNEX 4
boo%- aem  -ivo  aun
d 
11. d    S d 1h1   _ E    I Sd ~L  LIo f__L_UW                MG
~                 ~                kim   hi        a_ I_  o_  .Mb                  _ _
L   t
OAr 3 odlUaL       4         43   * 4,33                  3       1    0   4  2   2   16   123        4    43    0    IX
Ies    S 3            10 d m             17.          3m      2       9     3   2 0 3   113    1          7    VA    2      9
0(5CDI1U1             13                  9M          Mt      I      la     4   4  3  9   I2       4      9    a     I    U2
0L 0,5-3 LM           a         713      16 432       3       a      a          19 2  74  D        fl    3    53    Ls   la
by w    VA   im    in   w   -w .r v *h                                             w m hi  _         w  m_       m -a
W-   W-akT   lb OL CM
rL~~~~~~~~~~~4 a
U.  e"  a|    o    WtPGN)                  1                         4     4  19 6   71
1 _aLCamd.p_m)                                                       4 *      *    0 O14
m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~bfe    fao                          mtW
m  abw312                                                               13i
2b      329      7,=        IU
Oa_ddr & 1                                   14                8,612       2;1
W=&      k ftIc                               9       13[      3.6M 
KWI   4 113In                                 9       is         I"        23
-il 4                                                  (3      60          is
IeJ. wmf                                      3        43        33         12
amem                                        5        11        W         1
30hurA                        7M      -           -
~~~~~~~~~~~~70                         1=       40,705      in
LV. _m
22L -  Z  31   23.3J3       51
6        3       2.z 9       7
mc                                            6               2,766       7
1       II        747        2
SAM"                                       TY       ThM    -T;.         -r
S31 TONSAML                                  35       5s      W.813       211
ThmEL                                   J70      10       40.B        10
tomc     1yc flm im -*-om   'F y       to~ wlmm    Wm uff wingbdm   n -EL owt1  m. cmd    andalw ammnr t-1-4 pramtlu.
The hkiv    WW                 } w mzina  %ft W   gi     y      d Ia I   y _  _  _m tmI Oil 1aivto c  prm  te
0     d  



KENYA
KIE Second SmalI Scale Industry Credit
KIE Organization Chart
Sall $1ALL ICALI lImpalaS nt
WI: *lf.'m II4 pvefuuulflaa email ae                    ' goal.
dd&plyad by deuatinat so .m
g alJu 
O, .3 6.s",.
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~auusmuw au ilauia 10@O *UU6fS
1%~~~~j
Z,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5/



-3  -                        Annex 6
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
KIE Program for Improving the Selection of Entrepreneurs and Projects
KIE has agreed in principle to the following changes in
orientaton wit". respect to its future selection of entrepreneurs and
projects which should be incorporated into KIE's operational guidelines:
(a)   KE  will not  sell  new projects to entrepreneurs and should
generally respond only to demand initiated by prospective
entrepreneurs who have developed their ideas independently
although KIE will continue to play an active promotional role in
assisting entrepreneurs to develop their ideas;
(b)   KIE's future lending patterns should generally follow the project
demand and will not focus on remote areas with few KIE projects
and on overall 'disbursement' objectives which relate to district
planning and/or 'equitability- considerations;
(c)   KIE will keep initial project size to levels consistent with an
entrepreneur's initial equity contribution and management
expertise. In ehe case where an entrepreneur proposes KIE
financing for a project which appears to exceed his/her
capabilities , appraisal reports may discuss phasing which can be
undertaken lat-:r with additional KIE loans if the entrepreneur
proves his ability to handle the smaller project and to service
his existing debt;
(d)   KIE should not ordinarily make initial loans of more than K Sh
3.0 million or lend to projects with total fixed assets in excess
of K Sh 5.0 million (USS300,000). Exceptions, which under no
circumstances should add to total KIE disbursements in excess of
K Sh 5.0 million, or to KIE loans to projects with total fixed
assets of over K Sh 8.5 million, should be made only for: (i)
expansions of previous KIE projects where a commercial bank is
willing to provide working capital and the entrepreneur's
previous relevant experience and repayment records have been
excellent (only A category projects); (ii) certain projects
such as quarries which are designed to service a local market and
-which do not lend themselves to phasing in terms of smaller loans
jand where the entrepreneur has relevant experience; and (iii)
projects which include land and buildings among its assets;
(e)   KIE should give priority in the processing of applications to
projects and entrepreneurs most likely to succeed regardLess of
geographical location or sector. Preference should be given to
expansions of existing clients where suitable. KIE should give
priority to sponsors who have prior relevant business experience
and/or formal academic training specifically in business. other
entrepreneurs should be required to take and perform
satisfactorily in an obligatory training program as a
pre-condition to any disbursement; and,
(f)   KIE will not ordinarily lend for projects which, themselves, will
directly import raw materials, alt!-ough previously imported items
may be purchased locally. KIE snould not, as far as possible,
finance projects that are dependent on quantitative restrictions,
high tariffs on imported competition, or on regulatory restraints
on other companies' ability to compete for their viability. It
should deemphasize projects that must market on a nationwide
basis in competition with existing larger firms, unless they have
a competitive advantage.



KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
KIE Industrial Estate Facilities
April 1985 (K Sh 000)
Type oa           Year of          No. of Sheds         tcupancy          TSC          kent Space             Loans in        Total No.       Gross       PFroitl(14es)
Regional Location                               Facility         Completion       Total    Rented         Rate         Facilities       Sq. Ft.                 Are           ksyloe          Aseta        4/83 Modst
Nairobi                                         Ind. Etate           1911            Sb        54           9US           large        1I0,273                    135            23           60,049          (5,216)
Nachakos                                        KilC                 1973            IJ        13          10tU           small           12,320                   30            20            1,016            (159i
Tala                                            IPA                  I942             9         1           7dt          emall            3,917                     6             5            2,440             (bi)
Sultan Heaud                                    IPA                  1983            2U         5           2Ug          small            4,*04                     6             4            1,516             (J7)
,,kist                                          IPA                  19d4            10       new           Ut                            o,458                     3             2            3,5U3             (l3)
Nunguint                                        IPA                  1953             9         U            U4          small             3,J11                    2              4           1,69U              (43)
iLbvwsi                                         IPA                  lIs4            10       new           UX                            SO                          1,90        5            2 91
SUbT0TAL: NAIRUSI                                                                  mTT        7i           ft           5i TsC                                   TI "01                       TU?II
Mo2bAsa                                         2nd. Estate          1917            2U        IU           SSt           large           14,903                   41             23           2,13J              314
MailndI                                         RIUC                 I199             b                     1St          small             6,45b                   27             6            1,903            (204)
Voi                                             RIDC                 1981            l0         7           lot          emil             8,6U8                    IS             9            3,369              (Vt)
Taveta                                          IPA                  1953             b                     UX       I _d3 o                                        3             3            2 5dJ               el5
hUaTUTALI MtOMBASA                                                                   T        "T               t                                        1 TsC e   111t           o2                        s T4Y)
Nakuru                                          Ind. Escace          1914            25        IS           12S          large          IU9,b55                   44             26            1.691             I1I
Kabornet                                        RIUC                 1981            10         4          4UX                            5,574                    a              7            *21 1135)
SUSTOTAL: NAKURU                                                                                                                        II  19    I TSC  rrStin  "ii            "1             4,821           -7r
Eidoret                                          Ind. Estate          1981            25        la           12S          large           89,915                     62             IN          19,853              31S
Kericho                                          IPA                  19SS             9       new            UX                            7 9b2                    24              4            1,121 6135)
SUBTOTAL:  LXORET                                                                     n        "Ti         "IT           T"YF"             7tU                      "             "2174 11      itW
Klsumu                                           Ind.  Etate          I191            22        13           62S           large           51,546                    37             16           2,029              335
KicL                                             RILC                 2911            "I         8 a551                    ma11            9,8d6                     4(             14           J,845             (238)
llaom  Bay                                       RIDC                 1982            it   11       11001                 smll             113040                    16              9           1,318             (126)
Slaye                                           KRIC                  1292            10         6          50S           seall            8,653                      7             9            0,015            (182)
Keroka                                           IPA                  1945             b       new           0X                            6 719                                     1           2 W0
SUSTUTALs KISLUNU                                                                    WJ                                   PTs'I4I                                  ThY    r       9    4  20                 4      lU)
Nycrt (including Hurang)                         In4d. Estate         1941            14         a           lit          small           12,o30                     44             30          46a,w5            (715)
Karatine                                         IPA                  1982            20        2U         lU0X                            9,99b                      9              1           2,245               16
SUSTUTAL: NYEKI                                                                       44        2d          648          2 TSC            42,b26                     53             31          29,04              (699)
eabu (Including  ariesa)                         Ind. Estate          1913             a         d         lOUt           small             1,J12                    49             I1           3,515            (Z5l)
Meru                                             RIL                  19dl            11         1           7Jt          small            I1t5i3                    43              9           3,111             (161)
Kitul                                            KLUC                 1984             6       new           U4                            6 456                      4              5
SU8TOTALt  E/IJU                                                                      3        "T!         -2 TSrC                        I P. oo                    94             31           1,653            (442)
Ktakamga                                         Ind. Escate          19713            9         9         2001           small             1,263                    32             20          12,097            (*86)
Sungom                                           IPA                  1982             5         4          dlX                           3,2*8                      2              2           3,962              (48)
usie                                            RKIDC                 19d5             7       new           OX                            9 060                      3              2
SUISTUTAL: KAKAHEWA                                                                  7     T  -a            6b           I TSRC            t  S51                   317             24          14,060             MO
TuTAL: FOR 28 WCArIuNS             I/                                                3O        233          bit         Id TSC's        715,117                     692           29e          2 ,1U4           (6,551)
iL owns and sanaies about 907,WO0 square leet of whlch 765,177 can be rented.



-40                                     8
40-                            ANNEX 8
KENYA  MNDUSTRIAL STAThS LIMITED           Page 1 of 5
STAThM[ENT OF PULICY
1.   INTRODUCTION
The Kenyas Industrial Estates Limidted is a financial and technical
service institution wholly owned by the Government of Ken-ya for the
purpose of furthering the set-up economic development of Kenya by
assisting in the promotion, establishmene and expansion of small scale
industrial enterprises including minng, agro-'ndustries, engineering,
manufacturing, processing, assembling, consumer ard service industries
in accordance with the provisions and priorities of the successive
National Development Plar.s.
L    UObJECTIVES
The KIE will promote che industrtal development of Kenya through one,
or a combination of the followirng methods:
(a)  Provision of medium and long-term fin-.ance to small Industries
chroughout the country;
(b)  Provision of technical services including, but not limited co.
assistance in the preparation, implemenration, and management o:
enterpreses;
(c) Establishment and management of (1) idustrial estates, (2) rural
industrial development centers, and (3) industrial promotion
areas and workshop clusters in both urban and rural areas;
(d)  Participate in equity from time to etme  -  exceeding 25Z of the
total equity if such partic1pation is necessary for the projects
to come off the ground;
(e)  Provision of loars to quaiified entrepreneurs or, sofc terms to
enable them to meet tceir miI.mum required cor.tribut'on, if they
do rnot tave required financial resources.
3.   FINANCING
3.1  The KIE will fInance or otherwise assist encerprIses creating .,ew
productive assets.  KIU will not normally engage in refi4-ancing
operacIons, unless expenses are incurred less tcha  90 aays prior :o
approval of the project by KIE or in cases where KI" Is engaged _-.
rehabilitation of its existing assisted projects i-  cor.junction with
n.ew izfusijm of equity.
3.2  The KIE financial operatiors shall be guided by sound banking
pri_cIples.  The Company's investment decisiors shall be based on
appropriate appraisal mechods and will particularly take Into account
the total financial requirements of the project ard the adequacy of
the result!ag firancial structure for the enterprises.



ANNEX 8
-41-                          Page 2 of 5
3.3  The Company shall finance only economically sound, fisancially viable,
technically feasible projects and those which are competently managed
either by the entrepreneurs themselves or by full-time qualified
managers.
3.4  The Company shall not invest in any enterprise in which the total cost
of fixed assets, including permanent working capital, estimated after
completion of the project is more than K Sh 5.0 million. With effect
from 1st July, 1984 for any enterprise the Company will not invest by
way of loan more than 70% of the total cost of the project, as well
as, in exceptIonal cases, by way of soft loan as detailed in
sub-paragraph 3-b. This limit will be subject to review from time to
time, according to changing economic situac'ons.
3.5  The KIE will provide assistance to qualified entrepreneurs i.e.
persons who have had substantial previous experience in Marnagir.g their
own business, have had formal education 'r, business or accounting
and/or have completea a &IE approved Introductory traninr.g program of
prospective entrepreneurs.
3.o In exceptional cases where a sponsor is qualifted ar,d has some, but
not all, the required financial resources ard the project cannoc be
reduced to a size commensurace with the sponsors resources, Loans
will be granted co the sponsors on soft terms equal to 15X of the
project cost ir. respect of pro-ects costing up to K Sh 1.U millior,
10% in respect of projects costing up to K Sh Z.U million and 5Z In
respect of projects cosaing above K Sh 2.0 million provided the
entrepreneurs contribute from their own resources 15Z, 20Z and 25Z of
the project cost respectively. The amounts of soft loans will be
invested by the sponsors in equity of che assisted project. This loan
will bear nominal Interest of 1Z per annum during the moratorium
period of 5 years from tre date of dIsbursement and thereafter norMal
rate of incerest charged by KIE on term loan will be lev'ed. The loan
shall be repayable in 36 monchly instalmencs after a moratorium or 5
years from the first dace of disbursement.
3.7  In exrraordI-nary cIrcumstances and usually only 'r. coju-.ccor.o with
the rehabilitation of the existing projects, wherever corsidered
necessary by KIE that an ecoromically worrhwhile project canr.oc cake
off withouc &IE's participation or In case an orh-going project can-noc
continue production for the same reason, the company may cocs'der
participation -. equity subject to a maxisum of 2-Z ocr t;e total
charges. Tne policy for makIrng irnvestment i' equity shares of tne
assisted urits should be cor1servac've and as far as ooss-Ile i: snould
be avoided.



42 -                              ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
3.8  KUE shall not finance projects where the majority ownership Is held by
persons who will continue to earn their livelihood from dependent
employment. Excepcions from this rule can only be made if such
persons contribute at least 40% of the project cost irt the form of
equity ad have nominated a qualified techical manager for the urit.
Such borrower will not be entirled to assistance under soft loan
scheme of KIE.
3.9 The Company's total debts shall not ac ay time exceed three c!mes che
amount of its urimpaired subsc.ibed share capital plus surplus a-d
reserves.
3.10 The Compary shall seek to diversiry its financing boch geograpnically
and by industrial sectors.
3.11 The Company's investment in any one enterprise v_li be in keeping with
rhe natiornal objectives and stracegies. The Company snail g!ve
special consideration to enterprises utilizing local materials and
technologies which emphasize the creation of employment '-. relact tO Co
the capital invested. To the extent possible, the Company -will also
give special corsideration to er.cerpr4ses orienced cowards exports.
3.1' KIE will charge interest rates chac vill be adjusted from time co cime
so chat they remain generally based on prevailing commerc'al bank
interest races and are sufficient to maintain adequace margins to
achieve net proficability, after providing adequately for the bad
debts, for KIE from its lending operatIons.  besides  .IE shall cnarge
fees and commissions at rates to be determined from time to time.
3.13 The Company shall take such security for its loan as it shall
decermine adequate ard reasonable.
3.14 The Company shall at all ctimes seek to procect itselr against excnar.ge
risks of foreign borrowings.
4.   TECUNICAL SERVICES
4.1  The Compar.y shall provide rec4pIents and pocenctial recepiencs or Ki0
loans with a -ange of services as needed to assist i   ne eri-clent
establlsnment and operacion of cheir induscrtes.  These services snall
include, incer alla:
(a)  iderkr'l-cartor of suitable items ror manuracture, de:era:nat-or.
of viable scale of operacions, and assiscance --. plar.-,ing the
fi:ancIng, equipment, and manpower -.eeded;
(o)  technical advIce In selection, inscallation and zaincenance or
equIpment;
(c)  analysis of production problems impending full uctlizacion of
capacity or resulting in inadequate quali7y stanaaras;



ANNME 8
- 43
43 -                            Page 4 of 5
(d)  assistance in the development of -rew products and preparation of
tooling and design and fabrication of new equipment;
(e)  advice and training in management;
(f) assistance in marketing;
(g) in collaboration with other institutions, investigate the most
appropriate processes and technologies and develop equipment
suitable for application in the country; and
(h) assisting the borrowers in establishing commercial bank
relationships and opening initial overdraft / cash c:ed't
facilities.
4.2 The cost incurred ror these services w'll be met out of fees collected
ard grants to be rece_ved fr-om foreign donors.
5.   ESTATE MIAMAGEMENT
5.1  The provision of facilities and factory premises  4ill contirue to be
an essential activicy of che Company.  In keeping wiuh tnis role, the
Company will manage and operate industrial estaces in main population
centers ana will provide workshop racil_ties, where r_nanc4ally teaslble,
In industrial promotion areas.
5.2  Factory and workshop premises have beer. identIfied and approved.  The
factory and workshop premises on the estate or in industrial promotIor
areas will either be rented or sold to the entrepreneurs. If the
premises are rented, chen the entrepreneur snall pay the standard rent
for the premises, as determined from time to ctIme, to reflect che
long-run marginal coscs of facilllres and marxer renc.  uver Longer
term, che KIE's policy should be co charge not less than full markec
rates of rent for its facilities parcticularly after che loan nas beer
repaid and the entrepreneur has been fully established.
i.3  The construction activity will be confrned to fitanci.ally viable
schemes as proven by the feasibility scudy.  Lf and when the company
's required by tne Government to uridertake constructton of -on-viable
industrial escares, KIDC or I12  the cost of such construcc-or. shall De
met out of managed funds of che Government placed at the disposal of
:he Company ana KIE shall construct and manage such factlitres or.
benalf of the Government for a fee.
5.4  The Company snail establish and operate common technical service
.acIlities at che estares and iaaustrlal promotion areas if there 's
adequate demand for sucn services.  Charges shall be made for tnese
services so tnat these services are financially sell supporting.



44 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 5
b.   GENERAL
6.1 The Board shall conduct the business of the Company in accordance with
the Compary's Memorandum ard Articles of Association, and other
relevant laws and regulations in the country.
b.2  The Company shall recruit qualified personnel for its operacton and
establish terms and conditions of service as will enable It to attract
such personnel.
b.3 This policy statement shall be subject to review from time to time In
accordance with Government policies and straceg'es.



-45 -                                  Annex 9
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industrial Credit
KIE Actual and Projected Operations
FY81-90
(K Sb million)
Actual                Budget        Projected
Year Ending June 30    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985  1986   1987   1988  1989    1990
Approvals (NeL)          57.7   Sb.1   50.8   54.8   45.9  79.6   95.5  114.6  137.5   165.1
Commitments V             n.a.   n.a    n.a.  67.6   42.5  36.7   79.6   95.5  114.6   137.5
Disbursements            39.9   48.5   35.9   45.0   49.3  37.8   56.9   79.3   98.7   118.4
J Loans Approved 2/    104       95    140    130    154   200    217    237   258           282
V/ KIE did not keep separate records on commitments until 1984.
i/ Assuming average value per project remains constant in real terms after 1985.



KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
KIE Loan Portfolio Composition as of June 30, 1984
(K Sh LIllion)
Arrears Experience         Z of         2 of
Portfolio Coutouotlon by Category          Total        Arrears   2 Value of   Project          Project
o. of  Value of  X of No.  I of Loan  MAount in   of 3 mos./ Portfolio               Rated          Rated
Loans    Loans    of Loans  Portfolio   A.rrears    Portfolio   Affected   Successful  Unsuccesful
A. Categorization
of Portfolio
Portfolio Cateo
Minor Problems  (               405      111.7       58.5%      39.52        3.9          3.52         27.62        100.02
Moderate Problems (B)            74       80.0       10.7S      28.3X       12,2         15.32        86.92 
Major Problems (C)              151       68.8       21.8X      24.32       26.8         39.02         90.82         --            100.0S
Failed Projects (D)              58       21.6        8.4Z       7.6Z        9.6         44.62        84.32                        100.02
Not Available                     4        0.8        0.61       0.32       0.0           0.0%         0.02          --              _
Total                        2      282.9      100.02      100.02      5.5           18.62        64.02          58.5S         3C,21
B. Sectoral Distribution
Food                            147       43.0       21.22      12.22        7.2         16.62         59.32         79.62          11.62
Textiles/Leather                131       51.6       18.92      21.72        8.5         16.42        83.3X          56.52          33.62
Wood/Paper                      154       54.3       22.32      20.12       13.0         24.02         78.31         49.42          39.62
Chemicals                        22       23.2        3.22      10,42        3.9         16.92         54.1Z         50.02          36.42
Metals/Engineering              118       46.8       17.12      15.0%        8.8         18.92         58.92         50.02          34.72
Services                        104       55.0       15.02      17.52       10.6         19.32        41.72          56.92          35.32
Construction                     12        8.2        1.72       2.82       0.5           6.72         38.52         66.72           0.02
Not Available                     4        0.8        0.62       0.32       0.0           0.02         0.02         100.02           0.0S
Total                               28292  2.9  100.0%    100.02       5.5           18.6Z        64              .9           30.31
C. Other Characteristics
On estate                      190      112.0        27.5%      39.62      33.7          30.12        87.62          33.92          50.32
Off Estate                     502      170.9        72.5Z      60.42      18.8          11.02        48.52          68.32         22.82
Fully Implemented              529      227.7        76.42      80.52      52.1          22.92        79.22          52.9Z         35.12   o
Under Implementation           163       55.1       23.62       19.52       0.4          0.9X          1.42          78.32         14.91
IDA only                       117       59.4       16.92       21.02       5.1          8.6Z         54.92          72.62         16.2x
Noo-IDA                        575      223,5        83.12      79.02      47.4          21.2X        66.32          55.31         33.02



KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
KIE Actual and Projected Income Statements 1981-1990 (K Sh million)
Actual
For year ending June 30                 1981    1982    1983    1984    1985         1986   1987   1988   1989    1990
Loan Income                              4.5 I/ 20.3    20.3    24.0    29.7         33.0   37.9   45.8   56.2    67.4
Rent, TSC Chalges                        5.5      6.9    10.1      8.8      9.6       9.6   11.8   14.0   16.6    19.4
Other Income /                           6.8    10.9    15.7    14.9    14.1         17.3   17.4   17.4   14.7    10.4
Gross Income                            16.8    38.1    46.1    47.7    53.          59.9   67.1   77.2   87.5    97.2
Salaries                                12.7    14.6    14.7    15.0    16.2         17.6   18.7   20.6   22.6    24.9
Other Administrative Expense             6.9      6.8      9.0      7.5     8.8       8.0    8.7    9.6   10.6    11.6
Supervision/Training Expense            n.ea.    n.ea.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.    2.5    2.7    3.0        3.3
Total Administrative Expense            19.6    21.4    23.7    22.5    25.0         25.6   29.9   32.9   36.2    39.8
Depreciation                             2.2      3.0      3.6     3.6      3.8       3.9    3.5    3.5    3.4        3.4
Interest                                 7.5    10.5    12.9    14.5        9.9      10.6   11.4   12.1   13.1    14.2
Total Expenses                        2-D3-              *4i.72 ZT7T bi    7. 7      40.0   44.9   48.5   52.7    57.4
Profit Before Provisions               (12.5)    3.2       5.9     7.1    14.7       19.9   22.2   28.7   34.7    39.8
Provisions 3/                            4.5    24.0       1.3    18.7      9.1       9.8    9.7    9.0    7.6        9.2
Profit Before Tax                      (17.0)  (20.8)    4.6   (11.6)   -7           10.1   12.5   19.7   27.1    30.6
Tax                                                                          -        5.9    6.7    9.5   12.1    14.4
Profit after Tax                       (17.0)  (20.8)    4.6   (11.6)    5.6          4.2    5.8   10.2   15.0    16.3
Dividends                                                        (84.8) 4/            0.6    0.9    1.5    2.3        2.4
Accumulated Profit (Loss)              (51.1)  (72.9)  (b9.0)  (80.5)    3.4 4/   6.9   11.8   20.5   33.2    47.1
1/ Artificially low in 1981 because of change in accounting policy toward suspension of Interest.
H, Mostly interest on fixed deposits.
/ Provision expenses are not strictly comparable from year to year because of significant changes in accounting
policy between 1981 and 1984.
4/ Including writeoff of accumulated losses at June 30, 1984 per the financial restructuring plan
and allocation of KSh 2.2 million to reserves in accord with terms of Norad grant.



- 48 -
ANNEX 12
KIE Second Shaill -1    Industry Credit
IaE Actual and Projected bal    Slets 1981-1990
(K Si nUliir)
Actual                     Bket             Forecast
For year endxng Juie 30        19B1   1982   1983   19H4   1985        1986   1987   I988   1989   1990
Cash ad Banks                  88.5   96.7  107.5  104.7  106.2       110.7  104.1   76.0   35.4    5.0
Other Oarrent Assets            3.7    7.5    8.0   10.5   12.4       22.7   22.4   23.6   24.4   23.7
.rr.et Portion: Pbrtfolio       n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.  44.9       58.2   73.6   91.0  111.0  133.2
lbtal Orent _mts              W.   IWT  1 5.5  115.2  1635           191.6  2D0.1  7190.  L78.
Portfolio (Omss) 1/           135.1  196.8  240.3  283.8  276.3      286.3  311.7  353.1  405.9  470.6
lees ProvisiM               (20.2) (51.5) (51.3) (57.0) (58.0)    (62.0) (65.5) (68.0) (68.8) (71.1
NLt Prtcfolio                 114.9  145.3  189.0   M.   218.3           4 2 Z   285.1   W7.1  39.
lit Fixed Aeets                95.3  113.8  128.3  136.4  146.4      147.0  144.6  142.6  140.9  139.5
Tbtal ssets                   302.4  363.3  432.8  478.4  528.3       512.9  590.9  618.3  648.9  697.9
LIABU.IES AND N r WORHI
Overdraft                       -      -      -       -      -         -       -      -      -      18.4
&Wry ylditors                   8.4    5.5    6.1    5.7    7.7        6.4    7.5    8.2    9.0   10.0
ccruel terest: ThnmalaLns       -     25.0   37.9   52.4    9.9        -       -      -      -       -
iwrent Ebrtion: loqg lTam Debt   -     -      -       -      -         8.0    9.4   10.7   11.9   13.0
Total. OA-mmr labilities        8.4   30.5   44.0   58.1   17.6        14.4   16.9   18.9   20.9   41.4
Iong Tem  Debt                207.1  239.8  280.2  310.9  196.1      212.4  213.8  230.4  246.2  260.9
S-e Capital ad Peserves       123.1  134.0  143.0  153.0  272.1 21  272.1  272.1  272.1  272.1  272.1
NOWD Gtants                    14.9   31.9   34.6   36.9   39.1       57.2   76.4   76.4   76.4   76.4
Retained Earns                (51.1) (72.9) (69.0) (80.5)   3.4 2/    6.9   11.8   20.5   33.2   47.1
Total Net Worth                86.9   93.0  108.6  109.4  314.6      336.2  360.3  369.0  381.8  395.6
Toal Liabilities & Nlt Worth   302.4  363.3  432.8  478.4  528.3      562.9  590.9  6183  648.9  697.9
1/ IncudI  equity inestnts a Uting to less than 0.-% of gros portfolio.
r Reflecting provisions in the draft financial restuctritg paper whereby G Meot will amvert K Sh 139.2
mill  in l      tvestint in industrial estate met fixed msets to equity ad wiul write off accudatedl Ie  at
Jm  30, 1984, against shae capital ad resenes.



- 49 -
ANNEX 13
KEE Sewnd Smil scale Imtz  Cxsit
KE Prolected Swr  md Ur of Ris 190-199
(K &h Minim)
Yaw  FuMm June 30                         1985      1986       1987        1999       1989        199D
Brizmid  Csh                            104.7    106.2      110.7       104.1       76.0       35.4
a           :u.
lbt Ptftt                                 5.6      4.2        5.8        10.2       15.0       16.3
(Dividald)                                        (0.6)      (0.9)       (L5)       (2.3)      (2.4)
Otlur Q4rtizg  Sm                        16.7     10.5       13.6        12.5       11.1       12.5
Subtotal                                 22.3     17.2       18.1        21.2       23.8       2S.4
Otbr S    :
b11ecta-Prlnd4fl                          8.4      8.7        9.9        14.0        19.0      24.7
QNearnt Ektdty                            8.0       -         -           -          -           -
loom-A                                    9.9      2.7        9.9         9.1       13.9       14.0
Im-ICEU                                   9.7      8.9       15.0        15.0       10.5       10.5
rDairvre[nt                               4.6     20.4        3.3         3.3        3.3        3.3
NDAD Qmt                                 2.2      18.0       19.3         -          -           -
Subtoal                                 41.7      58.8       57.3        41.3       46.7       52.6
2btal Sr                                 64.1     76.0       75.4        62.5       70.5       79.0
Appltcetka:
Fiud bs!ts                               13.3      4.4         11         1.5        L8         2.0
Tam aR etu                                0.0      17.6      25.4         9.4       10.7       1L9
MDsbbaMwa                                49.3     37.8       56.9        79.3       987       118.4
-cas (Xw) In WxIi Cpital                 0.0      11.6       (1.4)       0.5        (0.1)      (4.6)
Ttal A bplc.tiu                          62.6      7L4       81.9        90.7      111.1      127.8
bet Oms - Oah                            1.4       4.5       (6.6)      (28.2)     (40.6)     (488)
adim Ahb                                106.2    110.7      104.1        76.0       35.4      (13.4)



- 50 -
ANNEX 14
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
KIE Actual and Projected Financial Ratios 1984-1990
Year Ending June 30                    Actual        Budget
1984      1985    1986    1987       1988      1989      1990
1. Income Statement
Items as Z of Average Total
Assets
Net Income                       5.5       5.9      6.2     7.0       8.1       9.6      11.0
Infrastructure Income            1.9       1.9      1.8     2.1       2.3       2.6       2.9
Other Income                     2.5       2.8      3.0     2.6       2.3       1.6       0.7
Gross Income                    10.0      10.6    11.0    11.6       12.8      13.       1 r3
Administrative Expenses          4.9       5.0      4.7     5.2       5.4       5.7       6.0
Financial Charges                3.2       2.0      1.9     2.0       2.0       2.1       2.1
Depreciation                     0.8       0.8      0.7     0.6       0.6       0.5       0.5
Net Profit before
Provisions + Taxes             1.0       2.9      3.6     3.8       4.7      5.5        6.0
Provisions                       4.1        1.8     1.8      1.7      1.5       1.2       1.4
Taxes                            0.0       0.0      1.1      1.2      1.6       1.9       2.2
Net Profit                     -3.1        1.1      0.8      1.0      1.7       2.4       2.4
2. Profitability Indicators (Z)
Net Profit/Net Worth          -12.7        1.8      1.2     1.6       2.8      3.9        4.1
Loan Income/Avg. Portfolio       9.6      10.1    10.3    11.1       11.9      12.7      13.1
In. Expense/Avg. Long Term
Debt                         4.2        3.5      5.0     5.2       5.2      5.3        5.3
Spread                           5.4       5.9      5.3     5.9       6.7      7.4        7.7
Lending Administrative
Expenses/Average
Financial Assets             5.0        4.3     4.0      4.1       4.2      4.3        4.4
3. Financial Structure
Indicators
Long Term Debt/Equity            2.8       0.6      0.6     0.6       0.6      0.6        0.7
Debt Service Coverage            1.6       3.7      1.0     1.0       1.1      2.2        2.4
Arrears of 3 mos. as %
of Portfolio                19.0%      19.0%   21.0%   19.0%    17.0X    16.0%        15.0%
Provisions as % Ending
Portfolio                   19.0%      17.0%   18.0%   17.0%    15.0%    13.0%        12.0%
Loan Collections Ratio          61.2Z    90%      80Z     80%       85Z      90%        90%



- 51 -
Annex 15
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
Projected Resource Requirements - June 30, 1986 - December 31, 1989
(K Sh million)
New Resources Available for Commitments:
Beginning Cash (June 30, 1985)                      80.1
less undisbursed commitments
Government Equity                                    0.0
Uncommitted Funds from KVW and NORAD                34.1
Internal Cash Generation                            51.3
Principal Collections                               55.2
Total Resources                                 220.7
Non-Lending Uses:
New Fixed Asset Investment                           5.4
Dividends                                            7.1
Loan Repayments to Government                       34.0
ICDC Loan Repayment                                 17.4
Subtotal                                         63.9
Less Commitments                                     358.5
Total Commitment Gap (before new funding
from Government, IDA, KEW and NURAD)           (201.7)
Commitment Gap before IDA Funding                   (124.4)



52 -                            Annex 16
KENYA
KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit
KIE Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
KIE                     Cumulative
IBRD-FY                  Onlending       Technical Assistance        Total
1987
First Quarter
Second Quarter               -                      -                  -
Third Quarter               50                    110                160
Fourth Quarter              50                    110                320
1988
First Quarter              135                    130                585
Second Quarter             135                    130                850
Third Quarter              140                    110              1,100
Fourth Quarter             140                    110              1,350
1989
First Quarter              210                     90              1,650
Second Quarter             210                     90              1,950
Third Quarter              ,'Q                     30              2,190
Fourth Quarter             210                     30              2,430
1990
First Quarter              210                     30              2,670
Second Quarter             210                     30              2,910
Third Quarter              215                      -              3,125
Fourth Quarter             215                                     3,340
1991
First Quarter              215                                     3,555
Second Quarter             215                                     3,770
Third Quarter              215                                     3,985
Fourth Quarter             215                                     4,200
1992
First Quarter              160                                     4,360
Second Quarter             160                                     4,520
Third Quarter              160                                     4,680
Fourth Quarter             160                                     4,840
1993
First Quarter              125                                     4,965
Second Quarter             125                                     5,090
Third Quarter              125                                     5,215
Fourth Quarter             125                                     5,340
1994
First Quarter               90                                     5,430
Second Quarter              90                                     5,520
Third Quarter               90                                     5,610
Fourth Quarter              90                                     5,700
1995
First Quarter              150                                     5,850
Second Quarter             150                                     6,000



Annex 17
-53-
KENYA
Second Small Scale Enterprise Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Kenya Industrial Estates
1.   Projected Operations Plan 1985-89
2.   Projected Operations Plan 1986-90
3.   Project Pipeline as of June 30, 1985
4.   Summary Financial Statements - Lending and Estates Operations (19ts5)
5.   Procurement Guidelines
b.   Sample Tenancy and Loan Agreements (Revised)
7.   Background Notes on Working Capital Financing Problems for SSI
Entrepreneurs in Kenya
8.   Comments on a possible commercial bank SSI working capital lending
program (working paper)
9.   Summary of Staff as of April 1985
10. 1985 Entrepreneur Training Plan and Budget
11. Manpower Plan 1984-88
12. Guidelines fcr Industrial Estates Management Program
13. KIE memo "State of Affairs for Lease/Sale of TSCs"
14. Revised Sample Loan Application
15. Preaudit 1985 Financial Statements
16. Audited Financial Statements, 1982-84
17.  Loan Approvals: Financial and Economic Data 1980-84
18. Documentation regarding status of Category C Projects (December 1984)
19. Schedule of current rents payable (December 1984)
20. Portfolio as of June 1984 and June 1982 (computer)
21. Computer analyses of KIE portfolio
22.  Collections Data and Arrears Position 1983f84
23. Mid-year Financial Statements (1984)
24. Auditors' Management Letter (1984)
25. Loan Agreement between ICDC, KTE and Government of Kenya






