OFFICIA!
CREDIT NUMBER 1738 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(KIE Second Small Scale Industry Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KEYYA
and
INtERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSC 'IATION
Dated         7"'          4      7, 1986
lu


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1738 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            Y7#79> 4A        , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Kenya Industrial
Estates Limited (KIE), with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to KIE
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and KIE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "KIE" means Kenya Industrial Estates Limited, a company
limited by shares, established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Associatioqn and KIE, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KIE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)  "Charter" means the Memorandum and Articles of Asso-
ciation of KIE, dated November 7, 1967, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
(e)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by KIE to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to KIE under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-
limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which quali-
fies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
KIE proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(g)  "Investment  Project" means    a  specific  development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(h)  "Shillings" and "K Sh" mean the currency of the Bor-
rower;
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(j)  "Statement of Policy" means the Policy Statement of
KIE as adopted and approved by its Board of Directors in April
1984 and made effective on July 1, 1984, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(k)  "Operational  Guidelines"   means  the  Guidelines   for
Operations adopted by KIE on July 1, 1984, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;


﻿- 3 -
(1) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(m)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by KIE or by any one or
more Subsidiaries of KIE or by KIE and one or more of its
Subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amoint in various currencies
equivalent to five million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by KIE: (i) on account of withdrawals
made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; and
(ii) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for
KIE and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit which, when added to any other amount or
amounts previously financed for the same Investment Project out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $75,000, the foregoing amount being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause KIE to open and maintain in Shillings a special account in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower and KIE of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respec-
tive dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1997, and ending
August 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on August 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one per-
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.09. KIE is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause KIE to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreei-ent, all the obligations of KIE
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KIE to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the
Credit for Part A of the Project to KIE under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and KIE under
terms and conditions, which shall have been approved by the
Association, which shall include, inter alia, that the proceeds
of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of at least 6%
per annum, for a term of 15 years including a grace period not
exceeding three years; and (ii) make the proceeds cf the Credit
for Part B available to KIE as a grant.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit and, except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, thn Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) Without any limitation or restriction upon the provi-
sions of Section 3.01 (a), the Borrower shall take all action
necessary on its part to enable KIE to fulfill its obligations
under Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) shall be carried out by KIE pursuant to Section 2.06 of
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower has a review of the salaries of
its public service underway; one of the objectives of this review
is to harmonize the salary structures of its parastatals; accord-
ingly, the Borrower shall inform the Association of progress on
its review of KIE's salary structure within the framework of the
overall review.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) KIE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that KIE
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment;
(c) the Charter shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
KIE;


﻿- 7 -
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of KIE or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created, or acquired, or taken over by KIE, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
KIE's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and KIE; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by
the Borrower and KIE, respectively;
(b) a person with qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Association has been appointed to head KIE's entre-
preneur credit evaluation section;
(c) a qualified counterpart staff member to KIE's Finance
Manager has been appointed;
(d) deputy managers for KIE's Entrepreneur Training and
Supervision Departments have been appointed;
(e) KIE has implemented the proposals of its Financial
Restructuring Paper except those relating to repayment of loans


﻿-8-
owed   to  the  Borrower   and  the   Industrial  and  Commercial
Development Corporation; and
(f) the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement has been opened.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by KIE, and is legally binding upon KIE in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and KIE in accord"nce with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the minister for the time being responsible for
finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya


﻿-9-
Cable address:                    Telex:
FINANCE                            22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
Uniced States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans                4,800,000          90%
(2) Consultants'             1,000,000          80% of local
services and                               expenditures
training                                   for services of
consultants
domiciled with-
in the territory
of the Borrower
and 100% of for-
eign expenditures
for services
of other con-
sultants
TOTAL              5,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan has
been approved by the Association; or (ii) the Sub-loan is a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account;
(b) in respect of ptyments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(c) except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, on account of expenditures by an Investment
Enterprise, in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Association's
approval, if such expenditures shall have been made more than
ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Association shall
have received, in respect of such Sub-loan, the application
and information required by Section 2.02 (b) of the Project
Agreementor, in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than
ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Association shall
have received, in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan, the
request and information required by Section 2.02 (c) of the
Project Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide resources
to small-scale enterprises; (ii) help to develop the capabilities
of small-scale entrepreneurs; and (iii) make KIE a more efficient
channel for small-scale industry lending.
Part A:   Credit
Financing specific development projects, through loans by
KIE, to about 200 private small-scale industrial enterprises.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Training:
1.   Strengthening of KIE's En-repreneur Training and Super-
vision, and Finance Departments by the provision of technical
assistance.
2.   Development of KIE's entrepreneur training program.
3.   Survey to identify areas where small-scale industries can
competitively provide intermediate inputs to medium- and large-
scale industry.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"15. The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(2) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(3) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If:
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty (30)
days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (d) of the
Project Agreement, no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (b) or (c) of such Section shall have been
received by the Association in respect of any portion of the
Credit, or having been so received, shall have been denied;
or (c) at any time, the Association determines that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of
such item, which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit; or (d) after
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such
approvals or requests or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2) in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 whic. is to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 15 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Categories
(1) and (2), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request,
such documents and other evidence as the AVsociation shall
reasonably request, showing that such paymenc was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) and (2) for the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) and (2) for the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 16 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
f hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


