      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)



                                                                                                                      Report Number : ICRR0020276


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                        Project Name
 P102299                                           BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)

 Country                                           Practice Area(Lead)                                  Additional Financing
 Botswana                                          Health, Nutrition & Population                       P150693



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                        Closing Date (Original)                                          Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-75680                                              30-Sep-2013                                                                  50,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                      Closing Date (Actual)
  10-Jul-2008                                             31-Mar-2015

                                                                 IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                      Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                               50,000,000.00                                                               0.00

  Revised Commitment                                                50,000,000.00                                                               0.00

  Actual                                                            50,000,000.00                                                               0.00




 Sector(s)
 Health(58%):Public administration- Health(35%):Other social services(7%)

 Theme(s)
 HIV/AIDS(85%):Participation and civic engagement(15%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                           ICR Review Coordinator                Group
 Salim J. Habayeb                     Soniya Carvalho                       Joy Behrens                           IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    Original Project Development Objectives: The objective of the Project was "to assist the Borrower in increasing the coverage, efficiency
    and sustainability of targeted and evidence-based HIV/AIDS interventions by: (a) strengthening the National AIDS Coordinating Agency's
    (NACA’s) institutional management and coordination capacity; and (b) financing strategic and innovative HIV/AIDS-related prevention and
    mitigation activities" (Loan Agreement 1/29/2009). Although prevention of HIV is not explicitly stated in the objectives, the title of the project
    in the Loan Agreement is "National HIV/AIDS Prevention Support Project."
    Revised Project Development Objectives: A level-1 restructuring approved by the Board on 12/29/2011 revised the objectives as
    follows: "to assist the Government of Botswana to increase access to prioritized prevention services that reduce the risk of HIV
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)



      transmission." Efficiency and sustainability were no longer included, as stated in the Restructuring Paper (p. 5): "Based on a more
      comprehensive understanding of the context of Botswana's HIV/AIDS epidemic and implementation experience to date, it appears that
      efficiency and sustainability will not be easily measurable or attainable in such a short time span. Consequently, the proposed revised PDO
      has been simplified."




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     29-Dec-2011


c.   Components
      Component 1: Support to the National AIDS Coordinating Agency (NACA) (Appraisal US$7.2 million; Actual US$6.4 million)
      Strengthening institutional capacity and national monitoring.
      Component 2: Beneficiary Ministries (Appraisal US$19.2 million; Actual US$16.8 million).
      Supporting the development and implementation of Beneficiary Ministries’ annual work plans related to HIV/AIDS.
      Component 3: Civil Society Organizations/Private Sector (Appraisal US$21.6 million; Actual US$25 million)
      Carrying out subprojects that prioritize HIV/AIDS prevention results.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Costs. The project cost amounted to US$50 million and was fully disbursed. The total cost included taxes of US$1.7 million.
      Financing. The project was financed by an IBRD loan. The operation also introduced an IBRD buy-down mechanism which aimed at
      reducing the cost of the loan to the government through buy-down donor funds from the European Commission as a grant of US$20
      million which was provided to the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning. The funds were released during implementation based
      on project performance. The increased flexibility and concessionality of funding was applicable to the project based on global public
      good justifications and cross-border externalities. The project constituted the first IBRD buy-down in Africa. Performance-based
      financing was also introduced linking disbursements with the performance of line ministries, civil society and private sector organizations
      receiving project support.
      Dates. The project was appraised on 4/21/2008, approved in July 2008, and became effective on 6/30/2009, one year after approval
      because of a lengthy parliamentary review and delays in meeting effectiveness conditions by the Borrower. A midterm review was
      undertaken on 6/13/2011, followed by a level-1 restructuring on 12/19/2011 to revise the PDO and to simplify it. At the time of the
      revision, US$12.77 million (26%) have been disbursed. A level-2 restructuring on 7/15/2003 extended the closing date by one year; and
      another level-2 restructuring on 8/20/2014 further extended the closing date by 6 months, along with fund reallocation. The original
      project closing date was planned for 9/30/2013, and with the above two extensions aggregating at a total of 18 months, the project closed
      on 3/31/2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     Relevance of the original objectives is rated High. At appraisal, the objectives were relevant as AIDS was the top cause of mortality in the
     country, and the fiscal space implication of the epidemic became a major concern. In 2008, the prevalence of HIV in adults was 23.8%, and
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)



       about 27% of all reported deaths were attributed to AIDS. At appraisal, HIV/AIDS-related expenditures were 2.6% of GDP, and, in addition to
       expanding coverage, there was increasing government attention to efficiency and sustainability. The objectives were aligned with the priorities
       of the National Strategic Framework I (2003-2009), which defined the national response, and focused on strategic prevention, innovative
       mitigation approaches, and strengthened coordination among stakeholders. The objectives were also aligned with the framework’s
       operational plan, the National Operational Plan for Scaling-up HIV Prevention (2008), which focused on prioritizing interventions with the
       greatest potential impact for preventing new infections. The objectives were aligned with Botswana’s overarching development agenda (NDP-
       9 and the Poverty Strategy). The Project was consistent with relevant sectoral and regional World Bank strategies and policies: Africa
       Regional Health Policy (2006); Global HNP Strategy (2007); and Africa HIV/AIDS Strategy (2008), and with the Interim Strategy Note for
       Botswana (2008), the first Bank strategy for Botswana which included HIV/AIDS among its strategic priorities. At the regional and global
       levels, the objectives were relevant to the Millennium Development Goals, the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa, and UNAIDS Three
       Ones Principle, which calls for one national authority for HIV/AIDS, one strategic framework, and one M&E system. Relevance of Objectives
       remains high as the HIV/AIDS prevention and control agenda remains among the top priorities for the country, for the Africa region, and for the
       Bank.
       Relevance of the revised objectives is rated Substantial. The revised objectives were simplified to include only one objective on increased
       access to prioritized prevention services to reduce the risk of HIV transmission, with the objectives of efficiency and sustainability dropped to
       simplify the PDO as indicated by the restructuring document. Although the objective of increasing access remains highly relevant for the
       country and the Bank, country policy priorities also continue to emphasize sustainability in terms of the financing context (as exemplified by the
       Botswana 2013 Global AIDS Response Report and NACA's 2015 Investment Case) as well as efficiency of service delivery (ICR, p. 18).




       Rating                                                                               Revised Rating
       High                                                                                 Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

       Relevance of design under the original objectives is rated Modest. The design was partially consistent with the stated objectives.
       Expanding HIV/interventions through the ministry of health, seven line ministries, and civil society organizations was reasonably expected to
       increase coverage. But it was not clear how project activities would have led to increased efficiency and sustainability, as related activities and
       expected results were not articulated.
       Relevance of design under the revised objectives is rated Substantial, as increased access to prioritized prevention services was
       consistent with the stated objective, and the results chain was clearly laid out as shown above under the original objectives.




       Rating                                                                               Revised Rating
       Modest                                                                               Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Increase the coverage of targeted and evidence-based HIV/AIDS interventions.

    Rationale
    Outputs
    The project provided support to the institutional strengthening of NACA as the primary implementing agency, including staff training for NACA
    and civil society organizations, technical assistance and studies focusing on social aspects of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and M&E capacities.
    Support was provided to seven line ministries, the Tertiary Education Council, 54 civil society organizations and private sector entities. The
    inputs focused on HIV education and communication, behavior change communication, preventive treatment, safe male circumcision,
    biomedical interventions, training on pediatric HIV/AIDS, counselling, cervical cancer screening and HPV vaccine, integrated treatment of TB-
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)



HIV/AIDS, and directly observed therapy for TB, healthcare system and infrastructure strengthening, and male condom distribution. The
detailed outputs are too extensive to discuss, and the following are some examples: All teachers in the country acquired pediatric HIV
training; 2,600 youth a month nationwide received counselling on life issues; 43 institutions had campus-based counselors and counseling
reaching about 1,300 males and 1,200 females a month; 500,000 sector specific branded condoms were provided for the Ministry of Youth,
Sport and Cultures, with an average distribution of 3,700 male condoms every month.
The project provided support to public sector ministries in developing and implementing their annual work plans related to HIV/AIDS, notably
the plans of (a) the Ministry of Education focusing on teachers and in-school youths; (b) the Ministry of Labor and Home Affairs focusing on
prison staff and prisoners; (c) the Ministry of Local Government focusing on community level stakeholders, including orphans, vulnerable
children, and out of school youths; (d) the Ministry of Works and Transport focusing on mobile and highly vulnerable populations; (e) the
Ministry of Youth, Sport and Culture focusing on youth; and (f) support to civil society organizations and private sector to carry out subprojects
for HIV/AIDS prevention.
Outcomes
Geographically, the coverage of project activities under the original objectives benefited five districts or 58% of the target population.
Coverage continued under the revised access objective, adding six more districts. Over the whole life of the project, 11 districts were
covered, enabling access to improved preventive and treatment services for about 80% of the population, including the highest prevalence
areas.
Areas of notable progress included the increase in the number of Highly Active Anti-retroviral Therapy (ART) compliant health facilities, from
a baseline of 33 facilities in 2008, to 566 facilities in 2015, exceeding the target of 560. This demonstrated an extensive expansion in service
delivery capacity with a substantial enhancement in the target population coverage with HIV prevention and treatment services. The ICR
indicates that the percentage of population (10-64 years) who have ever received an HIV test increased from a baseline of 56% to 70.2% in
2015, reaching the target of 70%, and that the percentage of adults (15-49 years) who received an HIV test in the past 12 months increased
from a baseline of 41.2% in 2008 to 63.7% in 2015, exceeding the target of 60%, enhanced by increased coverage in voluntary counseling
and testing in the country. The number of male circumcision procedures, performed in selected health facilities, rose from a baseline close to
0 in 2008, according to the ICR, to 150,136 in 2015, but short of the target of 385,000. The percentage of funded civil society organizations
that have made progress in reaching targets specified in their proposal increased from a baseline of 0 in 2008 to 100% in 2015, surpassing
the target of 70%.
Tuberculosis (TB) indicators were also used because of the high rate of co-infection and co-morbidity in both diseases (in Botswana, 63% of
TB patients had HIV/AIDS coinfection), and because of increasing integration in service delivery for both, mainly for counseling, testing, and
treatment. Uptake of ART among TB patients increased from 53% in 2010 to 75% in 2013. Improved infrastructure and training in diagnosis
and clinical management contributed to this progress. TB case detection rose from a baseline of 69% in 2008 to 75% in 2015, reaching
regional and global benchmarks of 74%. TB treatment success rose from a baseline of 74% in 2008 to 82% in 2005, exceeding regional and
global benchmarks of 80%.
While coverage of targeted and evidence-based interventions met targets, substantially achieving the objective as stated, results that reflect
the effectiveness of such coverage varied among interventions. Information, education, and communication coverage have substantially
increased in terms of activities and scope, but their effectiveness was variable, and relatively low. The percentage of youth who had
adequate understanding of HIV/AIDS risks, as reflected by “the percentage of youths aged 15 to 19, and 20 to 24, who correctly identified
three ways of preventing the sexual transmission of HIV and who rejected three major misconceptions about HIV transmission” increased
from a baseline of 40% in 2008 to 46.7% and 47.7% respectively in 2015, short of the target of 60%, indicating that about half of youth did not
have adequate understanding of HIV/AIDS risk. As for “the proportion of youth aged 15 to 19, and 20 to 24, reporting either no sexual activity
or condom use during the last sexual encounter with a non-regular partner in the past 12 months”, the targets were not achieved for the 15-
19 years age cohort, but were achieved for the 20-24 year age cohort. The targets for sexually active males/females who report having had
sex with more than one partner in the past 12 months were not met, and actually increased from a baseline of 17.1% in 2008 to 22.7% in
2015 for the age cohort 15-19, and from a baseline of 17.7% in 2008 to 20.1% in 2015 for the age cohort 20-24 years, raising concerns about
the practice of multiple concurrent sexual partnerships and about the effectiveness of information and education efforts in the context of
entrenched cultural and social norms with respect to sexual partnership, gender and economic empowerment.




Rating
Substantial




Revised Objective
Increase access to prioritized prevention services that reduce the risk of HIV transmission.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)




    Revised Rationale
    The revision of objectives retained the same thrust for this objective, and dropped the two other objectives concerning efficiency and
    sustainability to simplify the PDO.
    Outputs
    As described above under Objective 1, with an increased focus on prioritized prevention services involving better-performing ministries
    (Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education and Skills Development) as well as biomedical interventions with proven results (safe male
    circumcision and the integration of HIV/AIDS treatment with treatment for tuberculosis and cervical cancer).
    Outcomes
    The project considered the terms access and coverage to be similar, and the terms were used interchangeably. The same outcomes and
    indicators described above under Objective 1 were used to assess progress and outcomes. Within a broader epidemiological context, the
    ICR noted that HIV incidence has marginally declined from 1.45% in 2008 to 1.35% in 2013, which may indicate that the epidemic is
    stabilizing, while keeping in mind that UNAIDS-data showed that the largest drop in incidence occurred prior to 2007. Also, progress towards
    the attainment of this objective was linked with broad institutional strengthening involving line ministries, centrally and at decentralized levels.




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Increase the efficiency of targeted and evidence-based HIV/AIDS interventions (applies only to the project under the original objectives)




    Rationale
    The ICR did not provide enough information to assess this objective. There were no indicators that would allow assessing efficiency gains of
    interventions. The ICR stated that the project did not analyze trends using epidemiological monitoring and project data to enable related
    assessments over time, across intervention types, or across implementers, and that this was an omission that has limited decision-making
    during the project and beyond it (ICR, p. 23).




    Rating
    Negligible




    Revised Objective
    Not applicable as the objective was dropped at restructuring.

    Revised Rationale
    Not applicable as the objective was dropped at restructuring.




    Revised Rating
    Not Rated/Not Applicable

PHEFFICACYTBL
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)




 Objective 3

 Objective
 Increase the sustainability of targeted and evidence-based HIV/AIDS interventions (applies only to the project under the original objectives)

 Rationale
 As stated above under Objective 2, the ICR did not provide information to assess this objective, and there were no indicators that would help
 in assessing increased sustainability of HIV/AIDS interventions.




 Rating
 Negligible




 Revised Objective
 Not applicable as the objective was dropped at restructuring.

 Revised Rationale
 Not applicable as the objective was dropped at restructuring.




 Revised Rating
 Not Rated/Not Applicable




5. Efficiency

The PAD included an analysis (Financing and Delivery of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Treatment, & Social Support Services in Botswana: An
Economic Analysis) that provided contextual information and economic arguments, relying on a review of the literature. It did not include
project-specific calculations or estimates of net present value, economic rate of return, or cost-effectiveness. Hence, it was not possible,
according to the ICR, to compare estimates and expectations between the baseline and the end line at project closure (ICR, p. 26). According
to the ICR, it was not possible to make a conclusive judgment on the impact and cost-effectiveness of behavioral change approaches applied
under the project due to the lack of data on interventions or program costs, and on the observed efficacy in terms of cases averted (ICR, p.58).
However, the ICR assumes that behavioral interventions were inefficient, while integrated approaches with TB and cervical cancer were efficient
(ICR, p. 27).
There were issues in the efficiency of implementation during the first three years of implementation. Effectiveness was delayed by one year
because related conditions were not met. Implementation was slow in the early stages, procurement performance fluctuated, and the project
suffered from periodic short-staffing in financial management, procurement, and M&E. Disbursement attained only 26% at the end of 2011.
However, performance substantially improved starting in 2012. Activities were completed after two extensions totaling 18 months. The loan
was fully disbursed at project closing on 3/31/2015.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)



                                                Rate Available?             Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                  0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                               0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Under the original objectives, which were to increase coverage, efficiency and sustainability of targeted and evidence-based HIV/AIDS
interventions, relevance of objectives is rated high because AIDS was the top cause of mortality in the country in 2008, and the objectives were
responsive to the strategies of the Borrower and the Bank. Relevance of design is rated Modest as the design was only partially consistent with
the stated objectives. Expanding HIV/interventions through the ministry of health, seven line ministries, and civil society organizations was
expected to increase coverage, and the results chain for attaining such an enhanced coverage was plausible. But it is not clear how project
activities would have led to increased efficiency and sustainability, as related activities and expected results were not defined. The objective to
increase coverage of targeted and evidence-based HIV/AIDS interventions was substantially achieved, with expansion of safe male circumcision,
HIV testing, ART, and HIV-TB services, although questions remains about the impact of knowledge and behavior change interventions. The two
other objectives on increased efficiency and sustainability of targeted interventions are rated Negligible as there was no information about
progress towards their attainment, nor evidence about their achievement. Efficiency is rated Modest because of the lack of project-specific data
on cost-effectiveness and because of inefficiency in implementation. The review findings are indicative of significant shortcomings under the
original objectives, and therefore an outcome rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Under the revised Objectives, which were simplified to include only increased access to prioritized prevention services, relevance of objectives
is rated Substantial as access remained highly relevant, but the objectives no longer captured increasing national concerns about sustainability
and efficiency aspects in confronting AIDS. Relevance of design is rated Substantial as the results chain clearly laid out how the expansion of
HIV/AIDS interventions, involving seven ministries and civil society organizations, would lead to increased access. Efficacy is rated Substantial
as the objective of increasing access to prioritized interventions was substantially achieved. Efficiency is rated Modest as discussed above under
the original objectives. The review findings are indicative of moderate shortcomings under the revised objectives, therefore an outcome rating of
Moderately Satisfactory.
According to IEG/OPCS guidelines, when a project’s objectives are revised, the final outcome is determined by the weight of Bank
disbursements under each set of objectives:

     • Under the original objectives, the outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory with a weight value of 0.78 (3 x 26% in disbursement).
     • Under the revised objectives, the outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory with a weight value of 2.96 (4 x 74% in disbursement).
     • All aggregate at 3.74 (rounded to 4) which is indicative of a moderately satisfactory rating. Taken together, these ratings indicate moderate
     shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an overall Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.



a.      Outcome Rating
        Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Financial commitments to maintain the HIV/AIDS response at a high level are expected to be under increasing pressure due to slowing
economic growth and diminishing fiscal contribution from diamond mining. Expectations of reduced donor funding and diminishing domestic
fiscal resources would lead to more intense competition between the various claims on government spending. At the institutional level, the past
response was considered by the government to be an emergency response mode justifying the presence of NACA as a standalone entity. In the
context of a stabilized epidemic, a more integrated approach will be pursued in the future with an added focus on efficiency, and the government
would be integrating NACA into the Ministry of Health (ICR, p. 31). The absence of a dedicated coordinator of the multi-sectoral platform may be
challenging in the short term until the institutional links are well developed and clarified across sectors. The Bank continues its engagement
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)



with the government, and is supporting analytical work on sector efficiency and sustainability challenges with respect to health and HIV/AIDS
financing. Also, a health systems strengthening operation, supported by the Bank, is currently under preparation with an expected delivery in
2017.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Preparation support was intensive during a 20-month period because of the novelty of financing instruments for the IBRD-buy down
     arrangement, the unfamiliarity of the Borrower with Bank operations, and because the project was considered a flagship operation (ICR, p.
     6). The PAD reflected the breadth of the technical soundness of interventions. Preparation of project components was based on analysis
     of identified challenges in the national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. A Quality Enhancement Review was undertaken by the Bank in
     April 2008 and concluded that the PDO was relevant and appropriate, and confirmed the importance of the operation moving forward on a
     priority basis. The Review indicated the need to avoid excessive expectations, and provided recommendations on technical issues, social
     assessment, and the development of operational plans. Effective coordination was undertaken with the European Commission as co-
     financier, Government counterparts, and other country-level development partners. The Bank team provided emphasis on client support
     and capacity building in Bank policies and procedures.
     However, there were some shortcomings in elucidating the operational details for project activities and performance-based financing
     processes. An evaluation component, as an integral part of the project, would have further informed implementation. Higher level systemic
     and structural impediments were underestimated (ICR, p.31) with a delay in meeting project effectiveness conditions. The magnitude of the
     risks was underestimated, including implementation capacity limitations. In addition, the original project design did not include activities to
     support the sustainability and efficiency objectives.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Given that the Bank did not have an active portfolio in the country and had not been active in Botswana for 20 years, the team dedicated
     substantial time to explore the country context to build the foundations for an effective relationship with the Borrower. Following
     effectiveness, the team focused on the most critical reasons for delays, notably meeting the legal and technical conditions, and issues
     related to the hiring of the requisite technical assistance. Throughout supervision, the Bank team was proactive in identifying bottlenecks
     and feasible solutions. The restructuring was timely and proactive, occurring when only 26% of financing had disbursed. Supervision
     missions were focused and regular. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were coherent, appropriately reflected the nature of the
     implementation challenges, and suggested solutions. The ICR states that the mission Aide Memoires were clear and actionable, and that
     the mid-tern review issues paper was robust (ICR, p. 33). The Borrower’s feedback on the Bank’s implementation support was positive,
     except for concerns about delays in providing no objections to procurement. The Bank Team support led to notable quality enhancements
     in the civil society organization component, data management, and in performance-based financing mechanisms and validation.




     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)




a. Government Performance
   The Government was closely and consistently engaged in shaping the content and design of the operation. While the government has
   shown high commitment and support to the HIV/AIDS agenda throughout the project period, and in engaging the private sector, it was less
   effective in dealing with the initial bottlenecks during early implementation. These included issues related to the hiring freeze for civil
   servants, and slow facilitation of the broader political processes that have delayed parliamentary approval



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   In view of the mult-sectorality of the operation, NACA’s performance was intertwined with the broader public sector performance. In spite
   of capacity limitations, NACA performed sufficiently well in orchestrating project activities, while coordinating a complex implementation
   platform, which included seven line ministries, the Tertiary Education Council, and 54 civil society organizations. Short-staffing in
   financial management, procurement, and M&E was common in the first three years of implementation. The technical capacity of focal
   points was mixed. The agency’s management changed twice causing a temporary discontinuity. The agency had an uneven
   relationship with line ministries. However, starting in late 2012, NACA demonstrated adequate performance overall, including in its
   effective engagement with civil society.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The country already had a reasonably well established monitoring system and the project aimed at strengthening it, notably at the
   decentralized levels, and in standardizing the metrics and reporting across the ministries and civil society organizations. The project’s
   results framework was shaped by the Bank’s Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program’s (MAP) Global Results Scorecard (GRS, 2006). Although
   the MAP was recognized for its flexibility and learning by doing approach, the GRS had limitations. Specifically, some targets were
   ambitious, generic and broad. The IBRD-buy down was focused on an output-based budget support. The European Commission was
   closely involved in determining the indicators during appraisal as they would be used to trigger disbursements. More importantly, the
   design did not plan for the assessment of cost-effectiveness and efficiency aspects.




b. M&E Implementation
   Initial difficulties and fluctuations were faced mainly due to human resources constraints and understaffing at the district level. The midterm
   review contributed to addressing identified challenges through specific and time-bound human resource recommendations, including hiring a
   Senior Community M&E specialist in 2011. Subsequently, performance improved. The community M&E technical assistance helped in
   streamlining performance-based community grants, and addressed earlier data gaps. The External Results Verification Report (Euro Health
   Group, 2013), which involved 9 health districts, noted the issues in the definition of indicators and their multiplicity, but concluded that the
   M&E framework was comprehensive and useful. In general, reporting was adequate during the second part of the project period, from 2012
   and beyond, keeping in mind the persisting need to further harmonize among different levels of the M&E platform, and the need for a fully
   centralized HIV/AIDS database. NACA’s report, the Investment Case (2015) identifies M&E as a strategic priority to improve the effectiveness
   and efficiency of the national response to HIV/AIDS, and notes the continued need to further strengthen data collection and M&E systems.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)




c. M&E Utilization
   The findings were regularly shared with the Bank and stakeholders, including because results were used to trigger disbursements of the Buy-
   down instrument. The ICR noted that the project M&E provided momentum to increase capacity, transparency, and accountability at the
   level of the government, development partners, ministries, administrative levels, and civil society organizations. The project also served as a
   catalyst for harmonization between the inpatient and outpatient health management information systems managed by the Ministry of Health.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The Project was classified under environmental category “C”. No safeguard policies were triggered by the project.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. Given Botswana’s good performance in governance aspects in the past, the financial management risk was
   considered low at the start. The implementation unit’s computerized accounting system performed well. Internal controls were applied per
   the Operations Manual. No issues in the flow of funds and disbursements were noted. Interim financial reports were produced on a
   quarterly basis. By September 2010, the project met all financial management expectations, except when the office of the Auditor General
   had not cleared all audit backlogs, and when challenges to the recruitment of finance staff in the public sector were encountered. In June
   2011, the midterm review noted that the project’s financial management arrangements were acceptable to the Bank. The implementing
   agency ensured continued compliance with financial management requirements. Process difficulties were noted in using the government
   accounting system to support the preparation of interim financial reports. By April 2012, due to reduced capacity in the financial
   management unit, performance declined, interim financial reports were delayed, and quality deteriorated. The audit report for the fiscal year
   ending in March 31, 2011 was submitted five months late. The Bank expressed its concerns in 2013 on the delays in reporting and
   disbursement, and proposed advanced disbursement of funds up to 6 months to pay for eligible expenditures. According to the project team,
   there were no issues with fiduciary compliance.
   Procurement. Procurement performance fluctuated during the implementation period. After a slow startup, procurement improved and the
   post procurement assessment of October 2010 showed a satisfactory performance. But by April 2012, procurement slowed down due to a
   vacuum in technical assistance in NACA resulting in stalled procurement during an 8-month period from 09/2011 to 05/2012. Procurement
   activities were re-initiated with support and training from the Bank's procurement specialist, and the revised procurement plan was cleared by
   the Bank. Most procurement activities in the revised plan remained on track. Performance further improved with the recruitment of a second
   procurement position.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None noted.




d. Other
   ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)



12. Ratings
                                                                                                                   Reason for
Ratings                                     ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                   Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                     Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Risk to Development Outcome                 Substantial                        Substantial                         ---
Bank Performance                            Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                                 Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Among the lessons identified by the ICR (pages 36-37), the following are noted:

     • Even within a limited resource envelope, integration of HIV with other communicable disease and non-communicable disease services is
     possible, through a focus on functions (prevention, treatment, and care) rather than disease categories. In particular, this project illustrates
     the potential for integration of cervical cancer screening and care into the HIV/AIDS service delivery platform, leveraging HIV-related
     investments to cover other diseases that share underlying social determinants, interacting co-morbidities, and common solutions.
     • Careful design and implementation of a robust evaluation agenda are prerequisites for an efficiency analysis that can inform resource
     allocation decisions and policy formulation. In this case, lack of data on some interventions and program costs precluded full assessment of
     the impact and cost-effectiveness of various behavior change interventions.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is thorough and systematic in its analysis of both the project experience and the broader contextual environment. It is notable in its
candor and its elucidation of the shortcomings in project implementation. It is also notable in elucidating the stakeholders’ influences in
shaping the results framework. At times, the ICR’s narrative is not fully clear as it digresses and provided lengthy details that unnecessarily
extend its length to 37 pages. Lessons are well drawn from the project's experience. The overall quality of the report is rated substantial.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)        Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
BW-HIV/AIDS Project SIL (FY09)(P102299)
