OFFICIAL         I    &'L-P
. DOCUM'MTS
The World Bank                                181p H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON TRUCTION ANLVIELPEQwF , .Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOPIATION           U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
October 23, 2012
The Hon. 0. K. 4atambo
Minister of Finan e and Development Planning
Ministry of Finai*e and Development Planning
Government Enclave
Khama Crescent Block 25
Stale Drive, Gaborone
Botswana
Excellency,
Re: IBRD Loan No. 7568-BW
(National HIV AIDS Prevention Support Project
AA ditional Instructions: First Restated Letter (Amendment)
I refer to he Loan Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Bank for
Reconstruction d Development (the "Bank"), and the Republic of Botswana (the
"Recipient") for he above-referenced project dated January 29, 2009. The Agreement
provides that the Bank may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the
proceeds of Lo  No. 7568-BW ("Loan"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as
revised from tim to time, constitutes the additional instructions.
The Disbusement Letter dated January 29, 2009 is hereby amended as follows:
Section II. (iii) inimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5) is deleted in its entirety.
All other provisions of the original Disbursement Letter dated January 29, 2009,
including its atta hments, shall remain in full force and effect.
The attac ed World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1,
2006, ("Disburs ment Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the
Disbursement L tter. The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement
Guidelines appl to the Financing is specified below. Sections and subsections in
parentheses belo refer to the relevant sections and subsections in the Disbursement
Guidelines and,  less otherwise defined in this letter, the capitalized terms used have the
meanings ascrib d to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.


﻿I. Aisbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be
used under the Gr nt:
* Reimburse ent
*  Special Co  itment
* Direct Paynent
(ii) Disbursemen Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is
180 days after th( Closing Date specified in the Loan Agreement. Any changes to this
date will be notified by the Bank.
(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement
Conditions in the Loan Agreement.
II. 'Withdrawal Qf Grant Proceeds
(i) Authorized Si natures (subsection 3.1).
A letter in the Fo  attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the Bank at the
address indicate below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the
official(s) autho zed to sign Applications:
The World Bank
P.O. Box 12629
Hatfield 0028
Pretoria, Republic of South Africa
Attention: Country Director
(ii) Application  (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a)
applications for vithdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for
special commitments, together with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit, to the
ad dress indicatec below:
The World Bank
4 Fricker Road
IFC Building
Illovo 2196
Johannesburg, Republic of South Africa
Attention: Loan Department
Ill. Reporting  n Use of Financing Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be
provided with etch application for withdrawal as set out below:


﻿* For reques for Reimbursement:
0  Interim  inancial Report in the form attached (Attachment 3).
*  For reques for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g.,
copies of re eipts, supplier invoices.
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Ha idbook available on the Bank's public website at
https://www.worl bank.org and its secure website "Client Connection" at
https://clientconn:ction.worldbank.ora. Print copies are available upon request.
From the Client Connection website, you will be able to download Applications,
monitor the near eal-time status of the Financing, and retrieve related policy, financial,
and procurement information.
If you hale not already done so, the Bank recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Co ection website (http://clientconnection@worldbank.org). From this
website you will e able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of
the Loan, and re teve related policy, financial, and procurement information. For more
information about the website and registration arrangements, please contact the Bank by
email at (clientconnection(a worldbank.org>.
If you hae any queries in relation to the above, please contact Jose C Janeiro,
Senior Finance qficer at ianeiroCworldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Jo e C. aneiro
Senior Finance Officer
Loan Department
Attachments: P ease note that attachments 1 to 3 as per the original disbursement letter
dated January 29, 2009 remain valid.


﻿Pre]ared by Mari4 Khoury - CTRLA
Cleared with and c: Diala Makdissi Afram, JPO - LEGAM
Sheila Dutta - Task Team Leader (AFTHE)


