Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14821
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1832-ZR)
JUNE 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(period average)
Currency Unit: Zaire (Z)
Currency unit = Zaire (Z) until September 1993
New Currency unit = New Zaire (NZ) from October 1993
NZ I = Z 3,000,000
US$ 1.00   =Z         133 (February 1, 1988)
US$ 1.00   =Z        274 (December 31, 1988)
US$1.00    =Z        455 (December31, 1989)
US$1.00    = Z      2,000 (December 31, 1990)
US$1.00    =Z      91,080 (December31, 1991)
US$1.00    = Z  2,736,250 (December 31, 1992)
US$1.00    =NZ         12 (December31, 1993)
US$1.00    =NZ        108 (February 28, 1994)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                     African Development Bank
BZ                       Banque de Zaire (Central Bank)
DCA                      Development Credit Agreement
SDR                      Special Drawing Rights
EC                        European Economic Community
EMD                       Economic Management and Institutional
Development Project
IDA                       International Development Association
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
INS                      National Statistics Institute
ISAC                     Industrial Adjustment Credit
OED                      Operations Evaluation Department
OFIDA                    Office of Customs and Excise Tax
OGEDEP                   Office of Public Debt Management
PCR                       Project Completion Report
PIP                       Public Investment Program
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
PPAR                      Project Performance Audit Report
SAL                      Structural Adjustment Lending
TORs                     Term of Reference
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washgton, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of the Dirwlor-Genwal
Opeations Evaluation
June 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zaire: Economic Management and
Institutional Development Project (Credit 1832-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Zaire Economic Management and
Institutional Development project (EMID, Credit 1832-ZR, approved FY87), prepared by the Africa
Region, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
The EMID project was designed to strengthen the implementation of reforms initiated under the
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL, Credit 1831-ZR) and to build institutional capacity for economic and
financial management. Both the SAL and the EMID project, in the amount of SDR 9.2 million, were
approved in FY87. The SAL was fully disbursed, but the adjustment program went off track and, in 1990,
the Bank suspended the processing of additional adjustment operations. Although the EMID project was
continued for nearly two years thereafter, the abandonment of the structural adjustment program
undermined the institution building program. Following riots in September 1991, which led to the looting
and destruction of project assets, the disbursements for the EMID project were suspended and, in
December 1993, the credit was cancelled.
The EMID project had a complex design, involving many components which included: studies for
tax and fiscal reform; improvements in administrative structures to improve investment programming;
restructuring of the system of public finance management and programming; training; and improvements
in statistical capacity. Some studies on future economic reforms were finished. Specialized training for
public officials took place. The project was able to utilize local capacity, in contrast to earlier technical
assistance projects in the country. However, the Government ignored the project reconmeundations on the
improvement of budgetary and financial management, which represented the core objectives of the project.
The main lesson learned is, once again, that without government conmmitment to the reforms,
technical assistance is not likely to have a substantial impact. Moreover, the project design could have
been made simpler and the actions to be undertaken should have been more clearly defined and prioritized.
The outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. The sustainability of the project is rated as
unlikely. The institutional development impact is rated as modest. The PCR quality is satisfactory.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their officil dutis
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1832-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ......................................................  iu
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity .......................................................I
B. Project Setting ......................................................                                         1I
C. Project Objectives and Description .......................................................3
D. Project Preparation, Design and Organization ..................................................4
E. Project Implemnentation and Results .................................7.....................7
F. Sustainability and Lessons learned ......................................................                    10
G. Bank Performance ......................................................  11
H. Borrower Performance                             ..11.............................................  1
I. Project Documentation and Data .........................                     .............................  12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 13
PART  III. STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  ......................................................                                 17
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................                    .....................   17
Table 2: Credit Data ......................................................                                     18
Table 3: Credit Timetable:  Original and Actual Dates ........................                   ................  18
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursements ......................................................    19
Table 5: Estimated Project Costs .....................                     .................................  19
Table 6: Disbursements by Category and Agency ................................................ 20
Table 7: Acual Disbursements of Total Project Costs ......................................... 20
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources ....................                       ..................................  21
Annexes:
1: List of Individual Studies and Surveys Completed Under the Project ..............                           ..............  22
2: Status of Covenants ......................................................   23
3: Status of Government Counterpart Funds ......................................................                           24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.                             _






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1832-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Economic Management and
Institutional Development Project (EMID) in Zaire, for which Credit 1832-ZR, in the
amount of SDR 9.2 million, was approved on June 27, 1987, together with the Bank-
financed Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1831 -ZR). The Credit became effective on
January 6, 1988. After two years of implementation, adjustment-related project activities
were stopped following the discontinuation of the adjustment program by the Government;
the Project scope and activities were thereafter downscaled and limited to high priority on-
going technical assistance activities. Subsequently, the Project was informally suspended in
September 1991 as a result of civil unrest and riots but remained in skeleton form to
preserve essential analytical capacity in the event of a country breakthrough. The last
disbursement on the Credit was on September 30, 1993, and the undisbursed balance of the
credit, SDR 3.1 million, was canceled on December 9, 1993, following the decision to close
the Zaire portfolio after it was placed on non-accrual status on November 15, 1993. The
Credit was closed on June 30, 1994, ahead of the scheduled closing date of December 31,
1995.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the South Central
and Indian Ocean Department. There was no completion mission. The Borrower prepared
Part II.
The PCR is based on the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports and correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, the PCR and PPAR for the Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 183 1-
ZR), dated May 14, 1991 and April 12, 1993, internal Bank memoranda and interviews with
the Bank's staff associated with the Project.






Wii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJE:CT
(CREDIT 1832-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The EMID project was conceived in 1986 to help build national capacities for
economic management, and as a complement to the Bank's effort to revitalize Zaire's stalled
stabilization and adjustment programn, initiated in 1983 with IMF and bilateral support. IDA
extended an Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC, June 1986) and a Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAL, June 1987) in support of price and trade liberalization,
introduction of investment and export incentives, and public sector reform.  These
operations, supported by other donors, were also an attempt to reverse the trend of
negative net capital transfers to Zaire, which took place while the country was implementing
a far-reaching financial stabilization and economic reform program in 1983-86. The Bank
was aware of wavering political conmmitment to reform and carefully balanced the risks of
inaction against those associated with these quick-disbursing operations. To reduce the
latter, the EMID project sought to bolster Zaire's technical capacity to prepare and execute
economic reforms, strengthen public sector management, and help build national capacity
for economic management.
2.    The attempt to revive reform failed, essentially because of lax fiscal management,
compounded by political transition starting in early 1990. In hindsight, both the political
support to reform and the ability of technical assistance to ensure better public finance
management were overestimated. The ambitious and complex program supported by the
SAL translated into an equally complex design of the project, which was difficult to execute
and supervise. EMID performance was further affected by the halt in adjustment lending in
March 1990, the rapid economic and financial deterioration since then, the increased
political instability, and the looting and destruction of project assets in September 1991.
3.    Despite the difficult environment, the EMID project made important contributions.
Through 1989, it helped deliver significant reforms and fiscal stabilization results. It was
instrumental in exposing the methods used by Zaire's leadership to extract rents and pursue
non-developmental objectives at the expense of the country's welfare. It produced an
impressive range of analyses and policy recommendations with a relatively long shelf life,
which could be reactivated when Zaire is ready to renew adjustment efforts. And it fostered
national capacities, by providing civil servants, academics and private consultants with an
opportunity to carry out policy analysis. Compared with past projects, it relied more on
national consultants and training to improve the management of public investment,
statistics, the government budget, the public enterprise sector, and the civil service.



iv
4.    These positive aspects notwithstanding, implementation was slow and painfi4. Most
disappointing was the inability to translate project-financed policy recommendations into
actual reforms, either because they were insufficiently internalized or because they were
politically inconvenient. Although the project was never expected to deliver the reform by
itself, this failure to attain operational objectives negated its main rationale.  When
adjustment was discontinued in early 1990, project activities were reduced and re-focused
on capacity building. Disbursements were informally suspended after the September 1991
riots, and the credit was canceled in December 1993. The decision to keep the project alive
but mostly inactive was consistent with the country assistance strategy, which called for the
preservation of essential institutions and capacities, and of a quick-response capability,
should Zaire demonstrate readiness to stabilize its economy.
5.    The experience with the EMID project highlights some lessons for future capacity
building operations: (i) design must be simple, with clear objectives, monitorable outputs,
and ranking of priorities; (ii) legal documents should be closely linked to project objectives;
(iii) institutional development and capacity building, with long gestation periods, must be
de-linked from adjustment programs, to avoid the temptation of short-term solutions at the
expense of durable reform and the tendency to substitute studies to actual reform measures;
(iv) the Borrower's readiness and capacity for implementation should be firmly established
during appraisal; (v) supervision must be close, continuous, and consigned to institutional
memory through written reporting; (vi) maximum use must be made of local expertise. The
use of foreign consultants must be selective and emphasize transfer of skills; (vii) aid
coordination must be strengthened.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (EMLD)
(CREDIT- 1832-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:         Economic and Financial Management & Institutions Development
Credit No.:    1832-ZR
RVP unit:     Zaire
Sector:       Public Sector Management
B.    PROJECT SETTING
1.    The Adjustment Process. The EMID project was conceived in early 1986, at a
time when the Government of Zaire and external donors were attempting to revitalize a
stalled stabilization and adjustment effort initiated in 1983, after about a decade of gross
mismanagement and deteriorating economic and social situation. A lot was at stake. The
national constituency for reform was still fragile and needed support; the IMF had
extended three Stand-by arrangements; the Bank had financed an Industrial sector Credit
(ISAC, June 1986); and other donors had provided considerable debt relief and adjustment
financing.
2.    Zaire's initial stabilization and adjustment efforts had been encouraging. Through
1986, it had made significant progress in liberalizing prices, trade, interest and exchange
rate regimes, and introducing market incentives to encourage private investment and
exports. However, supply response was lagging, and weak fiscal management was
emerging as the key constraint to successful adjustment. Political commitment to reform
was weakening, in part due to negative net capital transfers.
3.    To shore up Government commitment to reform and address the under financing
of the adjustment program, the donor community mounted in 1986 a new and extensive
financial program in support of adjustment. Starting in early 1987, Zaire broadened and
deepened significantly its adjustment effort, with the support of IMF, IDA (Structural
Adjustment Credit, SAL, June 1987), and other donors. The renewed adjustment effort
sought to accelerate the introduction of private sector incentives in order to speed up
supply response, and strengthen public sector management. A detailed description of the
setting, content and results of this phase of the adjustment process was provided by the
PCR (May 1991) and the OED Audit (Report no. A-30 ZR, April 1993) for the SAL.



2
4.    This attempt to revive reform failed, essentially due to lax fiscal management,
compounded by political transition starting in early 1990. The PCR and Audit Report for
the SAL concluded that the program of reform was too complex and the operation too
risky, and that the Government's commitment to reform had been overestimated. The
Bank and the Fund discontinued support to adjustment at that time, followed shortly after
by all other donors. Zaire embarked on a downward spiral of fiscal and monetary
irresponsibility, economic decline, high inflation, and deteriorating living and social
standards. Its financial relations with all creditors were de facto severed, and its physical
productive and social infrastructure suffered immense damage.
5.    The Institutional Framework. Despite extensive external assistance, Zaire's
economnic management capacity was weak. Root causes included : (i) extensive political
interference, i.e., the subordination of economic management to the single-party rule of
the President, (ii) cumbersome and non-transparent administrative and organizational
structures and procedures, and (iii) unmotivated and under-skilled civil service. Real
economic decisions were taken by the President and, by proxy, the Central Bank. The
normal public administrative structures - Finance, Budget and Planning - de facto only
executed these decisions. Their organization and procedures were deficient. Finance and
Budget (split in the mid-1980s) had overlapping responsibilities for the mobilization and
use of public resources, and lacked both a clear modem budgeting framework, and
transparent accounting, control and reporting mechanisms. Planning, nominally in charge
of managing the public investment portfolio, lacked the legal authority and the technical
tools and competence to do it adequately.
6.    Public investment programming was especially weak. The Ministry of Planning
lacked: (i) a policy framework spelling out public investment priorities and their changing
nature during transition to a market economy; (ii) a public investment program (PIP) with
an adequate macroeconomic framework, and project identification, preparation,
evaluation, selection, control, monitoring and reporting procedures; (iii) rational and
transparent procurement and accounting procedures; and (iv) effective knowledge and
control of the financing of public investment. External financing (which provided the bulk
of resources for investment) was managed directly by donors, sometimes with direct
Presidential oversight; parastatals (notably the copper mining company, GECAMINES),
took their own investment decisions, again with Presidential blessing; and the investment
budget faced overlapping jurisdictions between Budget, Finance, Planning, and the line
ministries.
7.    These shortcomings of the key economic management institutions were
particularly frustrating given the extensive past technical assistance efforts. The IMF had
provided technical assistance to strengthen the Central Bank's monetary and balance of
payments management. Finance had benefited from European Community (EC) assistance
to Customs, French assistance for improved taxation and budget accounting, and UNDP
support. Planning had received TA from several sources, including LTNDP, the African
Development Bank (AfDB), the US, Germany, Canada and others. The Bank had



3
financed sector-specific TA components through investment operations, and five free-
standing TA projects to improve economic management.
8.    All these technical assistance activities shared some common features: they usually
used expatriate advisors to substitute for scarce national skills; chose to ignore political
interference, particularly from the Presidency, on the assumption that technical progress
might suffice; in the same spirit, they usually ignored institutional or organizational
bottlenecks, or failed to address them efficiently; and could not find workable solutions to
the lack of staff motivation. The outcome was that by and large the TA projects had little
if any impact on Zaire's economic management, both as regards current decisions, and
especially as regards capacity-building and sustainability. It is against this background that
the EMID was conceived and implemented.
C.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
9.    Objectives. The EMID project had a dual objective helping (i) accelerate the
design, implementation and monitoring of reform measures during this second phase of
adjustment, in particular those supported directly by the SAL; and (ii) build sustainable
capacities for economic management, in particular budgetary programming, control and
monitoring, and public investment management. The former was prompted by concern
with the Government's ability to manage the reform agenda of the SAL. The latter was
intended to mark a change from previous technical assistance efforts financed by the Bank
and other donors, towards the development of national institutions and capacities, and was
reinforced after the collapse of the adjustment program.
10.   Components. The project financed the services of national and international
consultants, training activities, studies and impact analysis, as well as incremental
operating costs, office equipment and vehicles. Training included courses in the country
and abroad, study tours, on the job-training, and seminars and workshops.
a). Investment Programming. Weak programrning, monitoring and control of
public investment was a major constraint to rational programming and budgeting.
Selection of projects often took place without proper regard for development priorities
and financing constraints. The project was to help: (i) establish an Investment Directorate
at the Ministry of Planning, responsible for programming and managing public investments
(ii) develop relevant public investment analysis and selection methodologies and
procedures, including for ministries and agencies in charge of sectoral and regional
physical and financial implementation; (iii) strengthen the Directorate's capacity to provide
a macro-economic framework; and (iv) improve the organization, management and
staffing of Planning. Expected results included a timelier funding of on-going projects
retained in the 1987-89 PIP, and the development of sound expertise for the production
and monitoring of a three-year "rolling" PIP updated annually.
b) Budget and Financial Management. The project aimed at assisting the
Budget and Finance ministries to rationalize budgetary management through: (i) adoption



4
of a modem and transparent budget nomenclature, improved budgetary programming, and
better control and monitoring of public accounts; (ii) improved fiscal legislation, broader
tax base, and more efficient fiscal administration and control; (iii) central reporting of
expenditures and improved procurement practices; and (iv) streamlined organization and
strengthening of staff management. Expected results included better preparation and
execution of the budget, improved fiscal assessment and recovery, and increased
efficiency, accountability and transparency of government expenditures.
c) Public Enterprise Management. The project aimed to help the Ministry of
State Portfolio: (i) monitor economic, financial and programming performance of state-
owned enterprises (SOEs), by training national staff in auditing; (ii) upgrade its database
on SOEs for closer supervision, and (iii) analyze SOEs and develop a privatization
strategy, for implementation under the SAL.
d) Civil Service Reform and Other SAL-related Support. The project was to
elaborate an interim civil service incentive scheme to be applied in the short term, pending
the application of more fundamental reforms programmed under the SAL, together with a
pilot program for core economic ministries. The pilot program aimed to rationalize
government staff; improve salary structures, and strengthen personnel management. The
project also comprised technical assistance to other ministries and agencies involved in
SAL implementation: (i) National Institute of Statistics (INS), to fund household, modem
and informal sector surveys, and update national accounts; (ii) OGEDEP (debt agency)
and the Central Bank, to strengthen data processing systems; and (iii) State General
Auditor, to reinforce its auditing capacities of the public sector.
D.   PROJECT PREPARATION, DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
11.   The preparation of a long-term  institutional development program  on core
economic ministries started in early 1986 at the Government's request, with the analysis of
budgeting, financial management, investment programming (including methodologies,
procedures, data collection), and public enterprise sector management. The preparation of
the project associated senior officials of all institutions concerned, and national
consultants. As the preparation of the SAL started soon after that, the initial long-term
institutional capacity building objectives were amended to support urgent SAL-related
reform implementation.
12.   Project coordination arrangements mirrored those for the management of the
SAL. Implementation was overseen by a Coordination Committee chaired by the
Minister of Planning, and composed of the permanent secretaries of the four economic
ministries concerned. The committee was responsible for approving and coordinating the
work programs of individual agencies. The ministries, through the supervision of their
permanent secretaries, were responsible for implementing agreed project actions, on the
basis of annual work-programs, including action plans for recruitment of consultants,
training and major studies. The programs of the ministries of Planning and Budget also



5
integrated related technical assistance activities financed by other donors. The Minister of
Planning approved the recruitment and selection of all external consultants.
13.   Project administration was ensured by a light unit headed by an administrator
who also served as secretary to the Coordination Committee. He was responsible for: (i)
recruiting and employing national consultants; (ii) approving the procurement of goods up
to $30,000 (higher procurement was overseen by the ministry concemed); (iii) processing
and submitting withdrawal applications, and (iv) maintaining project accounts.
Government financing of the project was handled through a counterpart fund account
established at the Central Bank and disbursed quarterly.  The project accounts and
statements of expenses were audited annually.
14.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The rationale for the EMID project must be
placed within the Bank's assistance strategy in Zaire in 1986-87. As highlighted in the
PCR for the SAL ,in those years the Bank participated in an intemational attempt to help
revitalize the adjustment process on the strength of Zaire's 1983-85 performance and
reverse declining net resource flows since 1984. This was done in the context of genuine
government efforts to reverse long-standing policies and practices, especially liberalizing
exchange and trade, honoring debt service obligations, and increasing incentives for
investment and exports.
15.   The SAL sought to exploit a window of opportunity and balance the consequences
of inaction against the risks of the operation, which were neither underestimated nor
misrepresented. A donors meeting in early 1987 and several meetings with the Bank and
IMF Executive Directors evaluated the risks and reached consensus that on balance it was
better to proceed with the SAL in order to preserve the gains of the preceding stabilization
and adjustment programs.  With the benefit of hindsight, these decisions can be
questioned; it is clear, however, that Bank inaction would have precipitate to the collapse
of adjustment, and could have been exploited to transfer the blame for it to Zaire's external
partners. When Zaire demonstrated lack of commitment to reform in early 1990, the Bank
acted rapidly and decisively by cutting back the lending program by about 85% with full
moral authority to do so.
16.   The EMID project was an integral part of this strategy. The Bank had repeatedly
raised openly the issue of governance in Zaire and the project sought to improve
governance by helping strengthen and making more transparent the country's economic
management. The comprehensive adjustment program launched in 1987 demanded broad-
based and simultaneous actions to reinforce Zaire's macroeconomic and financial
management. Once the decision to proceed with the SAL was taken, the project became
an essential element in pursuing economic reform, while at the same time strengthening
key economic institutions, and developing longer term capacities. When adjustment was
discontinued in 1990, and until informal suspension in late 1991, project activities were
reduced and re-focused on capacity building.



6
17.   Project Risks.  The appraisal identified several risks: (i) poor civil service
motivation and working conditions in the target institutions; (ii) complex project structure,
with many components and agencies involved; (iii) partial readiness for implementation
and incomplete agenda for action; (iv) need for coordination and monitoring mechanisms,
including linkage to the SAL program; and (v) the need to secure political support. To
address these risks, the following actions were taken: (i) pending comprehensive civil
service reform, the project was to seek Government measures to improve compensation
benefits for staff with crucial skills or involved in critical project activities, and enforce
institutional reform through dated covenants requiring completion and subsequent
adoption of manpower development and rationalization programs by the Planning, Budget
and Finance ministries; (ii) the credit agreement (section 3.03) provided for up front
actions to establish coordination and monitoring mechanisms, including coordination with
the SAL, to designate a project administrator, and to agree on first year work programs
for each target institution; (iii) the establishment of the Planning Programming and
Budgeting Directorate became a condition of Board presentation; and (iv) ownership was
strengthened through extensive participation of senior officials (both political appointees
and technical staff) and national consultants to project preparation.
18.   Project Cost and Financing. The total cost of the project was estimated at SDR
10.7 million, to be financed by IDA (SDR 9.2 million) and the Government (SDR 1.5
million). The project was expected to be completed in three years, but disbursements
were projected for eight years, in line with the Regional profile for such projects. As of
December 9, 1993 (when the undisbursed balance of the credit was canceled) IDA had
disbursed SDR 6.06 million and the Government SDR 1.47 million. The special account
has been fully recovered and the project was closed on January 31, 1994. The delay in
project execution and resulting failure to disburse the original amount are due to the
reduced scope and pace of implementation when adjustment was discontinued in early
1990. During the first two years of project implementation (1988-89) execution was on
track, and over half of the total cost SDR 4.13 million) was disbursed, to finance
preparatory activities and work in support of adjustment measures implemented under
SAL. As originally scheduled, 52% of the amount disbursed was used for technical
assistance. The remainder was used primarily for office equipment and material.
E.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
19.   Overview. The credit became effective in January 1988, at a time when adjustment
performance deteriorated markedly. Until the credit was canceled in December 1993, the
project enjoyed only one year (1989) of relatively solid adjustment performance. As of
1990, Zaire economy and finances declined rapidly; institutional capacities were eroded by
political instability and falling real incomes; virtually all donors discontinued their
programs; and the ability to use foreign consultants was sharply curtailed by security
concerns.



7
20.   In line with the country assistance strategy adopted in 1990 after the adjustment
process was derailed and policy-based lending discontinued, the project was streamlined,
stopping activities in support of the SAL and reorienting it to help preserve essential
institutions and capacities, and maintain a quick-response capacity in the event of renewed
policy reform dialogue. Disbursements under the credit were informally suspended
following the riots of September 199 1, which considerably damaged government units still
supported by the project and prompted the departure of remaining foreign consultants;
activities were further limited to a monthly economic update produced by local
consultants.
21.   Overall implementation remained slow throughout. It was affected by inconsistent
government commitment to reform, high turnover of cabinet officials, and communication
problems between the political and administrative authorities in the ministries concerned.
In addition, delays in completing some studies and implementing follow-up actions caused
frequent slippage in the agreed work programs. The main actions, which supported SAL
implementation, were held hostage by uneven pursuit of reforms. When completed, many
studies and institutional development proposals were seldom implemented, either because
inadequately internalized, or because they were considered to be too sensitive politically
(e.g., budgetary programming, control and monitoring to improve the transparency and
accountability of public finances, public enterprise restructuring, civil service reform,
public investment selection).
22.   Failure to implement reforms was particularly frustrating given the good record of
the project in delivering studies and surveys agreed under work programs, in developing
or rationalizing procedures, methodologies and database systems, and in strengthening
national capacities. Individual studies and surveys are listed in Annex 1. Activities related
to fiscal reform, the improvement of public investment management, and strengthening of
national accounting were also successfully carried out. The following summarizes main
activities.
23.   Fiscal Reform. Twelve comprehensive studies on tax structure and administration
(mostly done by national consultants) were completed and yielded substantive reform
proposals for the rationalization of fiscal management and decentralization at central and
regional level. Their recommendations were only partially implemented: (i) custom and
fiscal exonerations were temporarily eliminated, and subsequently reintroduced due to
political pressure; (ii) tariff reform proposals were not implemented because the
Government failed to enforce the related ordinances promulgated earlier to that effect; and
(iii) the proposed consolidation, harmonization and simplification of the tax regime under
a single tax code, and measures to improve tax administration, including the upgrading of
regional tax units, were never put into effect.
24.   Public Investment Programming. The project was successful in developing
public investment programming procedures, methodological tools, and capacities;
however, the Government failed to carry out proposed institutional and organizational
reforms, including legal reform to ensure compliance with PIP selection and execution



8
procedures.  Except for minor institutional changes (notably creation of a Public
Investment Programming Directorate) the authorities did not act on proposals to
restructure the Planning ministry, to introduce project preparation and selection guidelines
and procedures, and to define specific responsibilities for the various agencies involved in
public investment management.   Recommendations issued on improved financial
implementation of the PIP, including a new nomenclature of the investment budget, and
procedures and techniques for revenue and expenditure projections, were only briefly
implemented during 1990-91. Finally, a key recommendation to enact an annual public
investment law as a means to ensure compliance with the agreed PIP was not accepted by
the Government. As a result, the Government continued pursuing projects outside the
PIP, and which did not meet economic criteria agreed under the adjustment program.
25.   Budgeting and Financial Management.  Improved public finance management
was central to the adjustment process. The project supported the preparation of a new
nomenclature and methodology for budgetary programming, control and monitoring, and
of proposals for a new organizational structure and definition of tasks for the Budget
Ministry. The former was partially implemented in the fiscal years 1990 and 1991,
although the Treasury and the Central Bank did not respect the revised expenditure
procedures, and government spending (Presidential expenditure in particular) could not be
brought under control. The latter were never implemented. In 1992, even this limited
application of the new instruments to control government expenditures was discontinued.
Complementary technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance was delayed by the
decision of the French Cooperation to postpone its assistance for accounting and
computerization. The project also completed the preparation of a new nomenclature of
the investment budget and recurrent operation and maintenance expenditures, but the
Government did not implement it.
26.   Other SAL-Related Assistance. The project helped reinforce the capacity and
authority of some key economic institutions, including the Tax Department, the General
Auditor, the Central Bank, the Debt Management Agency (OGEDEP), and the Statistical
Office (INS). At INS, the project supported the production of new national accounts and
price statistics up to 1988 (and provisional accounts for 1989), which were officially
published in November 1990; household surveys, which were completed for the major
urban areas; an industrial census; and research on the informal sector. The INS was
ransacked during the riots in 1991, and lost most of its files and equipment. Project
support to the General Auditor helped complete several audits and reports on public
administration and enterprise management. At OGEDEP and the Central Bank, the
project funded computer equipment and software to improve database management for
extemal debt and economic indicators.
27.   Training.  This project component was fully implemented. As many as 355
nationals benefited from training in tax organization and verification, project evaluation,
economic management and macroeconomic forecasting.  Training helped achieve
substantial technical and institutional impact in the areas of fiscal reform, strengthening of
the PIP preparation process and national accounts up dating. As from 1990, the project



9
activities emphasized particularly capacity building which, in spite of the prevailing
institutional and policy vacuum, permitted to proceed with some priority technical work,
mainly in public investment programming.
28.   Consulting Services. The performance of international consultants was uneven.
Their tendency to work independently and with little coordination with local staff resulted
in poorer than expected counterpart training and transfer of expertise. National staff were
not sufficiently involved in systems development; at times, new systems were implemented
without adequate internalization. This aspect was largely corrected for the on-going
project activities remaining during 1990-91, in part due to increased reliance on national
consultants. In particular, the fiscal reform component action was most successful in
using extensively national competencies. On the downside, this may have led to excessive
use of academic consultants and the proliferation of studies.  The quality of work
produced by local consultants was generally good.
29.   Aid Coordination was inadequate.  The donors were unable, and at times
unwilling, to coordinate their actions, and this became obvious from the early stage of
project implementation. They were unable to agree among themselves and with the
Government on specific responsibilities and actions.  The duplication of technical
assistance to the Ministry of Planning for public investment management was particularly
obvious. EMID support to public investment programming and project-supported
recommendations on institutional and organizational reform conflicted with agreements
reached between the Government and the African Development Bank (AfDB) on support
for PIP financial and physical control and monitoring. Similarly, as mentioned before, the
decision of the French Cooperation to postpone its assistance to the Ministry of Finance
delayed project activities to improve budget management. Cooperation with UNDP was
good.
30.   Disbursements, Procurement and Audit. During early implementation of the
project, the Borrower's lack of familiarity with the Bank procedures and project
implementation guidelines lead to occasional non-compliance with Bank's rules for some
procurement actions. In general, however, -procurement of international consultants was
satisfactory, with the exception of one tender for the second phase of a program to
modernize budgeting programming and monitoring (60 man/months), awarded by the
Borrower to a French consulting firm (CEGOS) without the task manager's non-objection
and an agreed work program, and declared void by the Bank. Procurement for vehicles
and office equipment under ICB for the core ministries started in 1989, but was not
completed since the equipment was procured under funding by other donors.
31.   Supervision performance was mixed. The main issue was excessive political
interference in economic management.   Other problems included (i) insufficient
preparation of detailed plans for implementation, (ii) complexity of project design, and
numerous official interlocutors and donors, (iii) insufficient resources allocated for
supervision (5.5 SW in 1989, of which only 3.5 SW in the field, 9 SW in 1990, and 7 SW
in 1991), (iv) frequent turnover of the task managers, and (v) insufficient linkages with



10
SAL supervision and economic work on public expenditure programming. The Resident
Mission played an active role in supervising the preparation of the civil service component.
F.    SUSTAINABILITY AND LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The project did not meet its objectives in supporting adjustment reforms, but it
was instrumental in building institutional and technical capacities for public sector
management. These capacities will be critically needed when Zaire decides to embark on
financial stabilization and economic recovery.  The knowledge and experience in
organization and re-structuring of core ministries, systems, procedures, instruments and
skills, and the studies produced for specific reforms, could be activated and extended to
the whole Zairian administration. The project helped identify the main bottlenecks to
accountable and transparent public sector management, prepared some important tools for
alleviating these bottlenecks, and strengthened a group of skilled technocrats and civil
servants able to carry out economic analyses and translate them into policy measures.
This group includes key government officials, managers of parastatals, academics, and
private sector consultants.
33.   The experience with this project leads to important lessons on project design,
readiness for implementation, government commitment and ownership, institutional
environment, local capacity utilization, and internalization of project outputs:
a)    Like the SAL, the project design was too ambitious, its scope too broad
and complex, and the agenda for action overloaded. Design should have been simpler,
objectives more clearly defined, and actions better prioritized.
b)    Project readiness for implementation was overestimated at appraisal.
Reasonably sound technical arrangements and a motivated team of technocrats are not
sufficient to guarantee successful implementation without tangible up-front political
csommitment and ownership.
c)    There should be continuity and adequate intensity of supervision,
particularly for projects of this complexity. Adequate provision should be made to
minimize turnover of staff responsible for implementation in the Borrower's executing
agencies as well as of Bank supervision staff.
d)    Increased reliance on local expertise is valuabte (e.g., fiscal reform) and
needs to be encouraged and expanded as a way to building national capacities. When
foreign expertise is needed it should be short-term, for specific tasks, with adequate
provisions to ensure transfer of expertise, and closely supervised.
e)    Legal documents should be more explicit on the technical requirements
and provide a more comprehensive treatment of the interactions involved.



11
G.  BANK PERFORMANCE
34.   The project was designed to support the implementation of a SAL operation
which, in turn, sought to consolidate Zaire's gains in fiscal stabilization and economic
liberalization during 1983-85. Another major consideration was the need to reverse the
underfunding of the adjustment program, which resulted in negative capital transfers and
undermined the Government's commitment to reform The SAL itself was beset by design
and implementation problems, and was driven to some extent by concern that the Bank's
failure to support adjustment and exploit the window of opportunity would have
precipitated the collapse of reforms (see also paragraph 15).
35.   There were two basic flaws which reflected on the outcome of the project: firstly,
like the SAL, it was too complex and ambitious, seeking to correct too many problems at
once, and without sufficient prioritization of reforms. The Government's persistent
tendency to misallocate public resources received insufficient attention; and secondly, in
hindsight, the Bank underestimated the lack of political commitment to reform, and
overestimated the impact of technical assistance on the introduction of good practices in
public finance management. While the need for some technical assistance was clear, this
assistance by itself could not compensate for lack of political will to change spending
habits.
36.   Although it fell short of its objectives, the project helped a group of technocrats
better assert themselves. Supervision was not adequate for insufficient allocation of
resources and high staff turnover. Had it been better planned, funded and managed, it is
not clear, however, that the project would have been more successful.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   The Borrower's performance was not satisfactory. It was slower, more irregular
and fragmentary than expected at appraisal.  The main manifestation was lack of
Government commitment for institutional reforms, particularly the implementation of
restructuring and management reform measures at the core Ministries involved. One of the
main obstacles to the success of the adjustment and capacity building program was the
dual authority (Cabinet and Presidency) over economic decision making. This was
particularly visible in the public finance management. Political interference from vested
interests was also especially evident in the area of fiscal reform implementation.
38.   Compliance with covenants was mixed. Through June 30, 1992, the Government
provided full payment of counterpart funds (Section 3.01 of DCA), albeit with delays
which hampered project implementation (see Annex 3 for a detailed breakdown).
Compliance with audit and accounting requirements was also met (Section 4.01 b).
Adherence to obligations under dated covenants (Schedule 4) was inadequate. These
covenants, dealing with improvements in organization and management in the three core
ministries, including adoption of improved staff development systems, proved difficult to
enforce fully (see Annex 2).



12
L   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
39.The Memorandum of the President and the Development Credit Agreement provided a
useful though limited project framework for the Governnent and the Bank. A more
detailed implementation and supervision manual would have facilitated the supervision and
implementation of this project. The preparation of this PCR was hampered by the absence
of regular progress reporting.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1832-ZR)
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Name          Economic Management and Institutional Development Project
Credit No.    1832-ZR
RVP Unit      Africa Region
Country       Zaire
Sector        Government
Subsector     Institutional Development
2.    Backeround
After embarking on stabilization and liberalization programs in 1983, the
Government of Zaire came to the conclusion that its weaknesses in economic planning and
financial management were among the chief obstacles to effective application of economic
reforms and execution of investment projects.
The Government therefore decided to request IDA assistance in removing these
constraints and in implementing institutional measures to improve its investment
programming, budgeting and financial management, tax administration, expenditure
controls, management of the public enterprise sector, and efforts to upgrade civil service
remuneration and employment conditions.
Halting of the structural adjustment program (as a result of the budget deficit, the
increase in which was financed mainly by allowing arrears to accumulate in servicing of
the bilateral external debt), the lack of any coherent macroeconomic framework, and
policy changes associated with the democratization process begun in April 1990 all made
implementation of this project difficult, with the result that many of the activities it was
designed to include were cancelled. However, work did go ahead on the local capacity
building component, which can be considered a major project success.



14
In addition to the fact that the project helped the Government to identify not only
its weaknesses but also the necessary corrective measures in such areas as economic
planning, budgeting, and financial management, it was instrumental as well in the setting
up of technical mechanisms and organizational units which would help offset system
deficiencies once political conditions permitted it.
3.    Proiect Objectives
Financing was to be provided under the project to cover the services of
intemational and national consultants, and incremental operating costs incurred in
strengthening the capabilities of the Ministries of Planning, Budget, Finance, and Portfolio
in the areas of:
-     investment programming,
-     budgeting and financial management,
-     public enterprise sector management,
-     civil service reform.
Strengthening of the economic and financial management capabilities of these
ministries was expected to make the Government fully effective in carrying out agreed
structural adjustment measures, and in launching a long-term program to create in Zaire
the public management abilities required for sustainable economic recovery.
4.    Proiect Desi2n and Organization
Higher-level staff of the Ministries of Planning, Budget, and Finance and of the
National Institute of Statistics took part in designing the project, an approach the
Government supported whole-heaertedly because it allowed those responsible for the
sectors concerned to indicate the particular constraints under which they operated and to
give their own views on what remedial measures were needed and on how the project
should be organized.
As regards project organization, technical responsibility in each ministry fell to a
steering committee chaired by the Secretary General of the ministry, although policy
decisions were the province of the minister.
5.    Proiect ImDlementation
Following interruption of the structural adjustment program in 1990, the World
Bank reviewed its position where Zaire was concerned and decided to halt release of the
funds that would have allowed the reforms initially planned to be carried out. The political
disturbances and looting of September 1991 led to loss of the project statistical base and
the departure of international experts.



15
As a result, the equipment provided for in the project documentation was never
ordered. As for disbursements, at December 31, 1993 the Government of Zaire had
disbursed 98% of its financial contribution (i.e. US$1,957,327 out of US$2,000,000) and
IDA had disbursed 74% of its contribution (i.e. US$8,862,000 out of US$12,000,000).
6.    Project Results
The project actually financed the services of national and international consultants,
personnel training activities, equipment (on a reduced scale, as international bidding
procedures were never initiated), study costs, and operating expenses associated with
strengthening of the ministries targeted. The tables in the accompanying annex show
actual figures in the various cost categories, as follows:
Table No. 5: Estimated Project Costs and estimated IDA Contribution
Table No. 6: Expenditures by Agency and by Cost Category as of Dec. 31, 1993
Table No. 7: Annual and Cumulative Disbursements as of Dec. 31, 1993
Regarding improvements in investment programming and budgeting and in
financial execution of the Public Investment Program, despite political pressures to
incorporate projects already in feasibility-study form [into the PIP], operations practices
and procedures, the project data bank, training for higher-level staff of the Ministries of
Planning and Budget, establishment of the Directorate of Programming and Budgeting,
and a new budget classification framework were all developed or completed.
Regarding managerial and organizational improvements in the Tax Administration,
the Government now disposes of a uniform tax code, a statute modifying the organization
of regional finances, and a large corps of tax inspectors trained through the project. Staff
competencies in the collection and audit fields have been upgraded. The difficulty in this
agency continues to be identification of those with tax liabilities and enlargement of the tax
base -two concerns which the next intervention in the taxation arena might address.
Regarding improvements in general governmental organization, procedures and
support services and computerization of information systems, the Government is gratified
at the results of the study on the organization of the Ministry of Planning, and at
development of the Procedures Manual and of documentation defining incentive systems
for government personnel.
7.    Borrower Performance
Despite delays, the Government's anticipated counterpart contribution was fully
disbursed in the first two years after project start-up, namely 1988 and 1989. In all, the
Government paid out 98% of its contribution, leaving a balance of US$43,000
undisbursed.
8.    Lessons Learned



16
(a)   Political changes and an economic policy crisis in Zaire prevented the country from
benefiting extensively from the project. However, the results of the shortened
project execution period, although modest, were conclusive. They indicate ways
and means to consolidate technical gains, and also new paths to explore in the
effort to achieve smoother implementation of measures adopted by the
Government as part of a new structural adjustment program and to strengthen the
vital functions of the country's economic and financial management institutions.
(b)   In physical and financial execution of the project, the interministerial steering
committee did not exercise its functions appropriately. In particular, it failed to
specify and abide by deadlines for physical and financial events, spacing of
disbursements according to an agreed schedule, and the paying out of counterpart
funds.
(c)   In future, consultants should be subject to closer supervision and control. Many of
them drew up their own terms of reference, themselves deciding what their work,
their leave periods and their deadlines would be. Moreover, they behaved as if
they were World Bank specialists not answerable to the Government. Contracts
with consultants should specify the nature of the technology transfer expected of
then, as well as their responsibilities for training their local counterparts.
(d)   The experience gained through the project in such areas as reorganization of
ministries, recruitment of experts to provide technical assistance, administration of
basic and workshop training programs, and office technology is replicable
throughout the governmental apparatus.
(e)   In the area of technology transfer, it is true of all the consultants on this project
that their training of their Zairian counterparts left much to be desired. In future,
special attention should be paid to this matter.



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INSTITUTIONS
(IDA Credit 1 832-ZAI)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title T Purpose                    Month/Year    Status
of Approval
Structural        To address the major         June 1987      Closed
Adjustment Credit structural constraints in the               December 31,
(Cr. 1831 -ZAI)    economy, lay the basis for                 1989
sustained growth, and improve
the balance of payments
position over the medium
term.



18
Table 2: Credit Data
Amounts (SDR million)
(as of May 31, 1994)
_ _   Oriinal   Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid    Outstanding
IDA 1832-ZAI          9.20       6.06       3.14       0.00         6.06
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total                9.20        6.06       3.14       0.00         6.06
Table 3: Credit Timetable: Original and Actual Dates
Original/Planned Credit Dates  Revised/Actual Dates
Identification (IEPS)       March 1985                   January 1986
Preparation                 December 1985                November 1986
Appraisal                   May 1986                     April 1987
Negotiations                April 1987                   May 1987
Board Approval              March 1987                   June 1987
Signing of Credit Agreement   --                        July 1987
Effectiveness               September 1987               January 1988
Closing                     December 1995                December 31, 1993



19
Table 4: Cumulative Credit Disbursements
Amount (SDR million)
___..__._._FY88  FY89  FY90 FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94
IDA 1832-ZAI (Planned)     2.00   5.84   7.30   9.20
IDA 1832-ZAI (Actual)      1.59   3.09   4.81   5.51   5.77   6.03   6.06
Table 5: Estimated Project Costs
Amount (US$ million)
Category                                   Local   Foreign    Total
1. Technical Assistance                    0.52      2.96      3.48
2. Training and Workshops                   0.43      1.43     1.86
3. Studies and Surveys                      0.78      3.12     3.90
4. Equipment and Materials                  0.10      1.19     1.29
5. Additional operational costs             0.78      0.54     2.32
6. Refinancing of PPF                       0.17      0.33     0.50
Total Base Costs                            3.78      9.57    13.35
Contingencies (inflation)**                 0.15      0.50     0.65
Total Cost                                  3.93     10.07    14.00
Financing Plan:
IDA                                       1.93     10.07    12.00
Govemment                                 2.00        --    2.00
Total                                       3.93     10.07    14.00
** Projected inflation: 1987: 3%; 1989-90: 1% p.a.; 1991-95: 3.5% p.a.



20
Table 6: Cumulative Disbursements by Category and Agency
Amount (US$ thousand)
Category                 Plan      Budget   Finance   Portfolio    OGEDEP   Bank of  Acctg    Project   Total
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ZaireM gn
1. Technical Assist.       1.203     1.330      716          63                                     gm-    3,312
2. TraininglWorkshops       398       232       194          32                              20        40      916
3. Studies & Surveys        993        81       150                      -                    -         -    1,224
4. EquiptlNehicles          226       178        75            -         20        63       114       174      850
5. Operational costs          77       86        38          12                                     2,347     2,560
Total                      2,897     1,907     1,173        107          20        63       134     2,561     8,862
Table 7: Actual Disbursements of Total Project Costs
Amount (US$ thousand)
Category                              1987-89     1990        1991       1992        1993        Total
1. Technical Assistance                 2,139        609        562            -           2       3,312
2. Training/Workshops                     759        118           -          39           -         916
3. Studies/Surveys                        846        251         116           6           5        1,224
4. Equipt./Materials                      532        220          98                 -               850
5. Operational costs                      945        726         468        239          182       2,560
Total                                   5,221       1,924      1,244         2S4         189        S,862



21
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Bank Staff Inputs
FY   FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY   FY   FY    Total
86   87    88    89    90    91    92   93    94
Identif./Preparation   5.0  3.1                                                  8.1
Appraisal                    25.3                                               25.3
Negotiations                 1.1                                                 1.1
Supervision                        16.8  23.7  17.5  14.2  8.2  14.5  3.9    98.8
Project Completion                                                       8.0     9.0
Report
Total                  5.0  29.5  16.8  23.7  17.5  14.2  8.2  14.5  11.9  140.3
B. Mission Data
Project Stage   Month/Year           #wks        # persons   SWs   |eport date
Preparation     November 1986        1           2          3.1
Appraisal       February 1987        2          5           10       March 1987
Supervision     September 1987       2          3           8        November 1987
November 1988       1           1          2        December 1988
January 1989        1           1          2        February 1989
July 1989           3           1          5        September 1989
October 1989        3           1          5        December 1989
September 1990      1           1          1        October 1990
July 1991           3           2          7        September 1991
May 1992            3           1          3        June 1992



22
Annex 1
LIST OF INDIVIDUAL STUDIES AND SURVEYS COMPLETED
UNDER THE PROJECT
1. Ministry of Planning:
-Analysis and recommendations on the reorganization of the Ministry;
decentralization; staff profile for senior positions and description of
responsabilities.
-Manual of procedures.
-Analysis of impact of structural adjustment on the manufacturing sector.
-Report on public expenditure programs in agriculture, education and health.
-Household surveys for Kinshasa, Kisangani, Lubumbashi and Bandundu.
-Civil service rationalization and incentive program.
2. Ministry of Finance:
-Tax reform:
i) Tax-base
ii) Exoneration regimes
iii) Regional and local para-fiscal reform
iv) Personnel management of local Customs administration
v) Property tax reform
vi) Integration of tax legislations into a single tax-code
vii) Regional and local public finance study
3. Ministry of Budget:
- Reorganization plan of the Ministry
- Computerization master plan for the budget
- Revised nomenclature and procedures



23
Annex 2
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Description                     Section         Compliance   Remarks
Maintain counterpart fund account  DCA 3.01     Yes
in BZ with adequate quarterly
replenishment
Maintain functioning Project   DCA 3.02 a)      Yes
Coordination Committee
Establish/maintain Project     DCA 3.03 b)      Yes
Admin.Unit with administrative
and financial functions
Furnish independent audit report   DCA 4.01 b)  Yes
Submit proposed staff incentive  DCA Schedule 4  No          Final report submitted in June '89.
program                         (I)                          No decision taken by Govt.
Dossier to be re-opened.
Restructuring of Planning Ministry  DCA Schedule 4  No       Consultant's report not yet
(2)                          reviewed by Govt.
Adoption of 3-year investment  DCA Schedule 4  Yes           Procedures defined. Methodology
planning procedures             (3)                          consolidated and staff trained.
Completion of study to         DCA Schedule 4  Yes           Consultant's report submitted in
rationalize/develop staff in Min.    (4)                     June '90, not yet reviewed by Govt.
Plan
Completion of similar study in the   DCA Schedule 4  Yes     Job description and organizational
Budget Ministry                (5)                           study done by consultant. Program
elaborated by GOZ, to be
implemented.
Completion of similar study in  DCA Schedtule 4  No          Study postponed.
Ministry of Finance            (6)
Adoption of programs of staff  DCA Schedule 4  No            Pending on 4, 5, and 6.
rationalization and development    (7)



24
Annex 3
STATUS OF GOVERNMENT COUNTERPART FUNDS
(As of December 31, 1993)
Date of Deposit            Amount in Zaire      US$ Equivalent
January 1, 1987            1,245,467            10,000
November 12, 1987          1,277,000             10,000
November 30, 1987          2,600,000            20,000
May 17, 1988               15,000,000           88,235
September 5,. 1988         35,000,000           169,000
December 5, 1988           12,000,000           45,977
April 3, 1989              45,000,000           130,058
June 16, 1989              25,000,000           65,445
August 2, 1989             148,000,000          370,927
February 1, 1990           150,000,000          315,789
June 22, 1990              60,000,000           104,167
July 31, 1990              40,000,000           64,412
October 8, 1990            37,000,000           48,052
January 23, 1991           250,000,000          116,550
May 13, 1991               250,000,000          58,824
June 4, 1991               450,000,000          100,000
December 27, 1991          2,662,427,000        112,088
June 26, 1992              48,000,000           127,803
Total                      52,184,549,467       1,957,327









