Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1832 ZR
          (Economic and Financial Management Institutions
                       Development Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 29, 1987
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1832 ZR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1987, between the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
(the Borrower) and the  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower is  carrying  out  a  program of structural
adjustment in support of which it  is to receive a credit from the
Association;
     (C)  the  Project  is  a  necessary  measure  to  achieve the
objectives of the program of structural adjustment; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth.
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the  two project
preparation advances granted  by  the  Association to the Borrower
pursuant to  exchanges  of  letters,  dated  November  1, 1985 and
January 9, 1986, and April 9,  1987, and June 16, 1987 between the
Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to nine
million   two    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 9,200,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in  accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1  to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so  agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open a special account in  dollars  in  a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
Page  3
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as may, from time to
time, be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.O7. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of  the  Credit  in   semiannual   installments  payable  on  each
February 15 and August 15  commencing  August 15, 1997, and ending
February  15,  2037,  each   installment   to  and  including  the
installment payable on February 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be  one  and  one-half  percent  (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,  economic  and   financial  practices,  and  shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     (c)  In order to ensure the availability of funds pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this  Section,  the  Borrower shall establish and
maintain a Counterpart Funds Account in  the Bank of Zaire with an
initial deposit of the  equivalent  of  at least $10,000 and shall
replenish such account quarterly  with additional funds sufficient
to finance the Project for the following quarter.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03 (a) The  Borrower  shall establish and maintain,
for  the  purposes  of   carrying   out  the  Project,  a  Project
Coordinating Committee under the  chairmanship of the Commissioner
of State responsible  for  planning, and including representatives
of each of the other  Departments responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project; such  Committee  shall meet once each year to
approve the work programs of  such  Departments, and shall meet at
least once every  three  months  to  monitor the implementation of
such  programs,   coordinate   Project   activities  and  initiate
corrective actions, all  under  Operating Procedures acceptable to
the Association. The Department of Planning shall provide, through
the technical secretariat  for  the Structural Adjustment Program,
technical support to  the  Committee  and shall ensure cooperation
between such secretariat and the Committee.
     (b)  For  the  purposes  of  general  administration  of  the
Page  4
Project, the Borrower shall establish  and maintain a Project Unit
headed by a  Project  Administrator  who  will  also  serve as the
Administrative Secretary  to  the  Project Coordinating Committee.
The Project Unit  shall  include  an  administrative assistant, an
accountant, a secretary, a  driver  and  a messenger, and shall be
charged  with   handling   the   administrative   aspects  of  the
recruitment of resident experts  and short-term consultants of the
procurement  of  goods  and  services  of  a  value  over  $30,000
equivalent and of the withdrawal  and  payments out of the Special
Account of the proceeds of the Credit on behalf of the Borrower.
     Section 3.04. Each  Department  charged  with  carrying out a
part of the  Project  shall  follow  their  respective annual work
programs, as approved  by  the  Association,  shall exchange views
with the Association  at  least  once  every  twelve months on the
progress  under  such  programs,   on  their  content,  scope  and
implementation  and  on  the  proposed  program  for the following
period, and shall carry  out  such  programs in close consultation
with all parties financing such programs.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The  Borrower  shall cause the Project Unit
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the Departments of the
Borrower responsible for  carrying  out  the  Project  or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account,  audited  for each fiscal year
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as  the  Association  shall,  from  time to
               time, reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account, or  payments  out of the Special Account,
were made on the basis  of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               or payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
Page  5
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such  records  and accounts be included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contain a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.O1.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section l2.Ol (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Borrower   has   established,   in  its  Department
responsible  for  Planning,  a   Directorate  of  Programming  and
Budgeting with  powers  and  duties,  organizational structure and
staffing satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  the  Project  Coordinating   Committee  referred  to  in
Section 3.03 of  this  Agreement  has adopted Operating Procedures
satisfactory to the Association; and
     (c)  the Counterpart Funds  Account  has  been opened and the
initial deposit referred to in  Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement
has been made.
     Section 5.O2. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  Commissioner  of  State  of  the Borrower
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Departement des Finances
          Boite Postale No. 12997
          Kinshasa 1
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                Telex:
                DEFIN                     21161 KIN/GOMBE         K
inshasa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
Page  6
                INDEVAS                    44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                            64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                          By /s/ NGUZ a KARL-i-BOND
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward U. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'                1,960,000       100%
     services
(2)  Training                    1,280,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 60% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Studies                     2,850,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 60% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Vehicles, equip-              630,000       100% of foreign
     ment, furniture,                            expenditures and
     data processing                             60% of local
     equipment and                               expenditures
     software for
     individual con-
     sultants or
     experts, for staff
     training and for
     OGEDEP and the Bank
     of Zaire
Page  7
(5)  Data processing               310,000       100% of foreign
     equipment and                               expenditures and
     software other                              60% of local
     than that listed                            expenditures
     in Category (4)
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Operating costs               730,000       60%
(7)  Refunding of                1,080,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                   360,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                   9,200,000
2.   If the amount allocated to Category (7) above is in excess of
the amount due, the balance will be reallocated to Category (8).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made  in  respect  of:  (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date  of this Agreement; or (b) payments
under Category (5)  above  until  the  Association  has received a
master plan  for  the  computerization  of  the  operations of the
Departments responsible for Finance  and  for the Budget and their
respective agencies.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to support the carrying out
of the Borrower's Program  of Structural Adjustment which includes
measures to improve:  (i)  the  economic  framework for direct and
indirect taxation and the efficiency of its administration through
a reduction in  distortions  and  an  improvement  in the scope of
applicability of fiscal and  parafiscal charges; (ii) the planning
and financial management of,  and  the preparation of budgets for,
public investments; (iii)  the  management  of public enterprises;
and (iv)  the  conditions  of  civil  service  employment  and the
structure  of  its  payroll.  In  addition,  the  Project contains
measures  designed   to   initiate   a   longer-term   program  of
strengthening the Departments of  the Borrower most concerned with
economic management and development.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borower and the Association may agree
upon, from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Department responsible for Planning
Page  8
     1.   The establishment of  a  Directorate  of Programming and
Budgeting;
     2.   the  development  of   methodologies,  the  training  of
regional, central and sectoral  staff  and  the establishment of a
three-year rolling plan for public investment to be carried out by
the Department with  the  Departments responsible for agriculture,
education and health;
     3.   the improvement of the Department's capacities in macro-
economic projections, the monitoring of economic indicators and of
the carrying out of measures of structural adjustment;
     4.   the improvement of  its  internal procedures, management
systems  and  staffing  patterns   and  the  coordination  of  its
operations with those of other departments and agencies; and
     5.   the development  of  a  program  of  training  and other
incentives for  staff  according  to  the  actions  defined by the
Borrower relative to the restructuring of the civil service in its
Program of Structural Adjustment.
Part B:   Department responsible for the Budget
     1.   The development  of  an  improved  budget classification
framework  for   capital   and   current   expenditures   and  its
installation in key sectoral departments;
     2.   the improvement  of  methods  of  estimating revenue and
expenditures;
     3.   the   rationalization   of    procedures   relating   to
expenditures;
     4.   the improvement of  the  organization of the Department,
defining  administrative  procedures,  including  the Department's
capacity to  coordinate  in  budget  matters  with  the Department
responsible for finance; the development of staff capabilities and
the refining of the staffing pattern;
     5.   the development  of  a  program  of  training  and other
incentives for  staff  according  to  the  actions  defined by the
Borrower relative to the restructuring of the civil service in its
Program of Structural Adjustment; and
     6.   the adoption of efficient  procedure for spending and of
sound procurement and monitoring practices.
Part C:   Department responsible for Finance
     1.   The  establishment  of   a  special  central  accounting
section;
     2.   the establishment  of  a  system  for  monitoring public
accounts;
     3.   the  reorganization  of  regional   tax  units  and  the
improvement of the indexing and presentation of tax laws;
     4.   the improvement of  the  organization of the Department,
including its capacity to  coordinate  in  budget matters with the
Department responsible for the Budget; the defining of appropriate
staffing patterns;
     5.   the strengthening of the  capacity of the Directorate of
Taxation in tax administration,  especially through staff training
and the  improvement  of  procedures  for  the  identification and
verification of tax bases and for the settlement of disputes;
Page  9
     6.   the modification of  the  rules  and  procedures used in
determining the tax basis of companies for indirect taxes in order
to eliminate multiple taxation  of  inputs through deductions and,
for direct taxes, the establishment  of  a body of fixed rules for
the evaluation  of  financial  statements  in  the  calculation of
taxable income;
     7.   the consolidation and  substantial  revision of the laws
and regulations governing taxation;
     8.   the rationalization  of  the  financial  position of the
decentralized agencies through the identification and modification
of currently utilized tax bases  in  order to standardize them and
support regional and local budgets;
     9.   the strengthening of the  data processing and analytical
capacity of the Department; and
     10.  the development  of  a  program  of  training  and other
incentives for  staff  according  to  the  actions  defined by the
Borrower relative to the restructuring of the civil service in its
Program of Structural Adjustment.
Part D:   Management of Public Enterprises
     The  improvement  of  the   capacity  of  the  Department  of
Portfolio to monitor the performance of public enterprises and the
training of staff in performance auditing.
Part E:   Civil Service Reform; Other Activities
     1.   The development of a  pilot  program  within each of the
above Departments in conformity  with  the  actions defined by the
Borrower in its Program  of  Structural Adjustment and relating to
improvement in the civil  service  and its system of compensation,
including the  establishment  of  priorities  among objectives and
tasks  through  training  programs  designed  to  fulfill manpower
requirements; and
     2.   the carrying out of  studies  and  surveys in support of
the Program of Structural  Adjustment, including three statistical
surveys, namely,  of  household  budgets,  modern  enterprises and
traditional  enterprises,  to  be  carried  out  by  the  National
Institute  of  Statistics,  and  selected  sectoral,  regional and
economic policy  impact  studies,  all  under  terms  of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
Part F:   Procurement
          The procurement  of  vehicles,  equipment  and furniture
necessary  to  carry  out  the  above  activities,  including data
processing equipment for the  Borrower's  debt agency (OGEDEP) and
the Bank of Zaire.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
Page  10
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated, from  time  to  time,  to  the  eligible  Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or
at the  time  of  any  request  for  replenishment  of the Special
Account, or at the request  of the Association, such documents and
other  evidence  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  shall  follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
Page  11
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
          Actions                                  Dates
1.   Receipt by the Association for             February 29, 1988
     comment of a proposed staff Incen-
     tive Program (Part E 1 (a) of the
     Project)
2.   Restructuring of the Department of         October 30, 1988
     Planning and adoption by it of
     internal procedures satisfactory
     to the Association
3.   Adoption of a system providing             October 30, 1988
     for three-year Public Investment
     Plans with procedures for
     implementation satisfactory
     to the Association
4.   Completion by the Department               October 30, 1988
     of Planning of a manpower deve-
     lopment and rationalization
     program (Part E 1 (b) and (c)
     of the Project)
5.   Completion of similar                      October 30, 1988
     programs by the Departments
     of the Budget and of Finance
6.   Adoption by Departments of the             Six months later
     programs described in paragraphs
     4 and 5 above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
Page  12
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For the purpose of inviting bids, goods shall be grouped into
lots of a value of at least $100,000 equivalent where practicable.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods which, after grouping, are  estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of  $100,000  may  be  procured through competitive
bidding (adjudication publique) advertised locally as described in
paragraph  3.3  of  the  Guidelines  provided,  however,  that the
procedures followed are, except as provided in such paragraph 3.3,
substantially the  same  as  those  for  international  bidding as
described in Part II of the Guidelines.
2.   Miscellaneous  items  of  a   value   of  less  than  $30,000
equivalent after grouping  may  be  procured  through shopping, as
described in paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With  respect  to  each   contract   estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent  of  $30,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each  contract  not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  3  and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
3.   The provisions of the  preceding  subparagraphs 1 and 2 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of  expenditure.  Such  contract  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
4.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Association.Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
