Docunm
The Worl
FOR OFRCIL4
Repont No. P-5614-AR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THF
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$28.0 MILLION
TO
YPF SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
FOR A
HYDROCARBON SECTOR ENGINEERING LOAN
OCTOBER 28, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Austral
US$1.00            10,000 Australes
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BANADE      Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
GdE         Gas del Estado (National Gas Company)
GOA         Government of Argentina
GUTA    2   Gas Utilization & Technical Assistance Project
PE          Public Enterprise
PERAL       Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PEREL       Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan
SC          Sub-secretaria de Combustible, Ministry of Economy
YPF         Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
(State Owned Corporation)
YPFSA       YPF Sociedad Anonima
(The incorporated entity which has replaced YPF)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Yacimiento Petroliferos Fiscales Sociedad Anonima
Guarantor:          Republic of Argentina
Beneficiaries:      YPFSA, Fuels Subsecretariat, Ministry of Economy
Amount:             US$28.0 million
marmo:              Repayable in 17 years, including a 5-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Financina Plan:     GOVERNMENT      Us$ 1.2 million
YPFSA          US$10.9 million
IBRD           USS28.0 million
Total          US$40.1 million
Economic Batn
of Return                          Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Regort:            None
Man:                                IBRD No. 22713
This report is based on an appraisal mission on June 18-27, 1991.
The core team of the mission consisted of George Khoury-Haddad (Task Manager).
Herman Nissenbaum (Country Officer), John Stoddart (Financial Analyst,
Consultant), Fernando 2uniga-Rivero (Petroleum Engineer, consultant).
Supervising managers included Alain Thys (Chief, LA4IE), Katherine Sierra
(LA4IE) and Ping-Cheung Loh (Director, LA4). Peer reviewers were Alain Barbu
(EX2IE) and Chakib Khelil (LATIE).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrni-jw-
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank , ". .i-J tion.



MEMURANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED HYDROCARBON SECTOR ENGINEERING LOAN
TO ARGENTINA'S YPF SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed hydrocarbon
sector engineering loan to Argentina's Yacimiento Perroliferos Fiscales Sociedad
Anonima (YPFSA) for the equivalent of US$28 million is submitted for approval.
The proposed loan would be on standard IBRD terms repayable over 17 years,
including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.  In
addition, YPFSA would pay a fee of 0.8 percent to the Government of Argentina to
cover the latter's guarantee of the Bank loan. The loar. would assist in YPFSA's
restructuring and prive4ization by providing pre-investment and institutional
strengthening support.
2.        Backaround.   Argentina's petroleum sector has long burdened the
econamy and needed fundamental improvements. Petroleum output declined during
the 1980s, despite ample potential reserves, mainly because of lack of adequate
Government investments.   The reservelproduction ratio has also been falling
steadily and petroleum imports could be required in the immediate future. Much
of the difficulty concerns the role of the former state company (YPF), on which
the Government depended for the implementation of a petroleum self-sufficiency
policy. As late as November 1990, YPF was responsible for about two-thirds of
total crude oil output, and 70 percent of refining capacity, held rights to most
prospecting areas  and regulated private sector activity.   YPF operating
deficiencies mainly resulted from erratic pricing and taxation policies and
inconsistent Government oversight.
3.        To help secure future energy needs, in 1989 the current Government set
out to reduce YPF's monopoly position and introduce major changes in sector
policies. The Government deregulated crude oil and refined product prices and
trade, opening competition at all levels and attracting private investors.
Previously reserved exploration areas, as well as marginal producing areas, have
been openad to private industry for direct acquisition, and the main producing
areas will henceforth be subject to development by joint ventures.   These
transactions have attracted commitments of up to US$1 billion from private
petroleum firms. The Government also is moving to transform, restructure and
privatize YPF while divesting some of its operations and plants. The old YPF has
been transformed from a state enterprise into a shareholding -orporation (YPPSA),
with the view to its becoming commercially viable, financially self-sustaining,
and, over the medium term, privately owned through the sale of its shares.
YPFSA's business plan calls for it to reduce its staff substantially, shed loss-
making activities, and through operational changes and investment enhance the
value of its best assets, with the expectation that it will eventually be able
to raise funds in the f iancial markets. This will require making the company
more market-oriented, and shoring up key parts of YPFSA's aging, inefficient
infrastructure. Simultaneously, the private sector needs further encouragement
in the form of improved export infrastructure facilities, and the development of
concrete investment opportunities in order to implement the Government's decision
to rely more heavily on private enterprise. Finally, tle Central Government's



-2 -
new policy and regulatory role needs to be better established, a difficult task
now when public administration is so weak.
4.        Past Bank Lending and Lessons Learned.   Since 1980, the Bank has
financed three projects for YPF: (i) an engineering loan of US$27.5 million for
seismic work and gas fields delineations (Loan 1880-AR); (ii) a Refinery
Conversion loan of US$316.0 million (Loan 2032-AR); and (iii) a Gas Utilization
and Technical Assistance loan of US$180 million (Loan 2592-AR).   A fourth
project, f or which a loan of US$100 million was granted (Loan 2031-AR), consisted
of a line of credit through the Government's development bank (BANADE) for
financing private sector investmants in the petroleum industry.   While the
physical implementation of these projects was successful, they suffered
difficulties as a result of the country's sustained economic uncertainties and
prolonged recession, exacerbated by inconsistent and inadequate sector policy
direction.  As a result, there was particularly limited progress in meeting the
projects' objectives regarding product pricing and YPF institutional targGts.
The experience gained from these projects demonstrates that, in the absence of
an appropriate sector policy framework, project sustainability cannot be
achieved. In response, the proposed project has been designed to fit into a
strategy, discussed below, of moving from sector work and projects that support
sector reform to more spezific projects that support operational, infrastructure,
and institutional improvements, which are key to the sustainability of the reform
program.
5.        Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed Project is an integral
part of the Bank strategy for supporting public enterprise reform in Argentina,
without which the critical reforms recommended over the last few years would be
less likely to proceed. The Argentina Energy Sector Study (Report No. 7993-AR)
set the stage for Bank involvament in the sector, with its recommendations
providing the approach for many of the aforementioned changes.   The reform
program is in turn being supported by the ongoing Public Enterprise Reform
Adjustment Loan (PERAL, Loan 3291-AR) and the Public Enterprise Reform Execution
Loan (PEREL, Loan 3292-AR), both approved in February 1991, and by the current
Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance Project (GUTA, 2592-AR). The PERAL is
linked  to  the  broad  strategic  elements  of  the  reform  programs   price
liberalization; increased private sector participation in crude oil production;
restructuring/privatization of YPFSA; and establishment of a suitable regulatory
framework. The PEREL and GUTA are more specifically assisting YPPSA in moving
towards becoming a private petroleum company by supporting the development of a
strategic plan for YPPSA, organizing business units, defining new performance
crite.ia, defining the needed changes in its legal regime for greater autonomy,
defining the futare reporting and control relationship with the Government, and
advancing the privatization of redundant components. These loans should help
shape its future role, structure, and ownership. The proposed Project would
complement these efforts by supporting institutional development and pre-
investment activities needed to help YPFSA's adaptation and to assist it in
meeting over half of Argentina's petroleum requirements while awaiting the
envisaged increased output from new private sector operations. The creation of
opportunities for early additional private sector investment and the
establishment of policy and regulatory institutions, which will help clarify the
Government's role, are also important elements of Bank strategy in Argentina that
would be supported by the proposed Project.



-3-
6.        Project Oblectives. The proposed Project aims to: (a) help YPPSA make
an effective transition to its new coamercial role and eventual privatization,
and bring about improvements in the efficiency of its operations and capacity of
export infrastructure; (b) expand opportunities for mobilizing greater private
enterprise investment in the sector; (c) strengthen the Government's hydrocarbon
policy-making and regulatory capabilities; and (d) support energy conservation
and bolster the Government's efforts in developing and enforcing environmental
and safety standards.
7.        Prolect Descriltion.   To achieve these objectives,  the proposed
Project would support two main activitiess (i) engineering studies and related
pre-investment activities; and (ii) institutional strengthening.   Technical
assistaoce would be provided to prepare engineerina designs and specifications
to support YPPSA's and the Government's investment program in the areas of: (a)
enhancement of primary, secondary and tertiary hydrocarbon recovery in YPFSA
fields (base cost US$6.1 million); (b) natural gas processing and storage
facilities (US$10.6 million) expected to be put in place by private investors who
will operate distribution lines under YPPSA divestiture (para 8); and (c)
improvement of YPFSA's petroleum processing and marketing in terms of dispatch
centers  and  export  infrastructure  (US$10.9 million).    The  institutional
strengthening component would provide technical assistance to: (a) design and
;mplement YPFSA's financial information, procurement, taxation and accounting
systems to function as a private corporation, define environmental policies, and
provide related staff training (US$6.5 million); and (b) develop in the
Combustibles Subsecretariat of the Ministry of Economy the capability to oversee
sector policy and regulatory activities and negotiate contracts for exploration
and production (US$2.4 million).
8.        Some of the pre-investment activities would  lead to investment
opportunities for the private sector,  such as participation through joint
ventures with YPFSA to increase production in present producing fields and
enhanced recovery.   In addition, the pre-investment studies related to the
construction of natural gas storage facilities are designed to provide the
technical confirmation of the sub-project's viability in anticipation of its
subsequent development by the private sector.   Private sector interest in
developing the natural gas storage facility is expected to materialize as the gas
distribution systems, currently controlled by Gas del Estado, are divested and
privatized. Such privatization is expected to occur by 1993, and it would be
important that the technical data to be collected under this sub-project be
available to interested investors at that time. The proposed sub-project is
*         based on the recommendations of a feasibility study carried out by international
consultants, who rejected other alternative storage solutions. The eventual
private sector investor would be required to reimburse the Government for the
costs associated with the data collected under the sub-project (para 12).
9,        The Project is estimated to cost US$40.1 million equivalent with a
foreign exchange component of US$28.0 million. IBRD would finance the foreign
exchange component, while the Government arAd YPFSA would finance all local
expenditures.   The detailed cost estimates and methods of procurement and
disbursements are provided in Schedules A and B and discussed in Annex I. A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank group
operations in Argentina are given in Schedules C and D, respect2vely.  The



- 4 -
detalled project description, and project administration and implementation
arrangements are given in Annex I. The TOR for all consultancies were agreed
during appraisal and are avai:able in the Project File.
10.       Proiect ImDleuentation.  YPFSA's Project Administration Unit (PAU),
which effectively directed the Refinery Conversion Project (Loan 2032-AR) and is
in charge of the Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance Project (GUTA) (Loan
2592-AR) would have overall responsibility for the administration of the Project.
This unit would be strengthened by the addition of engineers from a variety of
fields, as well as finance and administration experts, seconded from concerned
departments from YPFSA as the need arises. The PAU would act independently of
the main body of YPFSA and report directy to the Ptesident of YPFSA.  The
Government's newly formed Combustibles Subsecretariat would be strengthened by
the creation of a Hydrocarbons Development Promotion Team and an Environmental
Unit. The Subsecretariat world be assisted by consultants in the creation and
operation of those units including the training of their staff.
11.       Environmental Aspects.   The activities  of the proposed  Project
(largely engineering studies) would have no adverse environmental effects.
Similarly, it is not expected that any significant environmental problems would
be associated with the execution of subseqcuent tInVesoAtoents. However, to-provide
adequate security, the Project would include diagnostic studies to identify in
greater depth any possible adverse ecological consequences of the potential
investments. Also. the Project would strengthen the Combustibles Subsecretariat
in setting sector standards for protecting the environment; three engineering
studies would provide the basis for the planned improvements in energy
conservation. and, p-lLution control at .YPFSA' -thr& r1,rvgeat refinesies.  The
Combustibles Subsecretariat needs to be strengthened by the creation of a team
to oversee environmental protection activities.   The loan would assist the
Government for these purposes, and consultants would be employed to assist the
Subsecretariat in developing environmental protection manuals and in defining
systems for monitoring compliance with standards.
12.       During negotiations, it was agreed that: (a) the PAU would be kept
intact throughout the life of the Project and it would continue to be adequately
staffed and equipped; (b) the Govenrment's Combustibles Subsecretariat would be
strengthened by the creation, not later than July 31, 1992, of a Hydrocarbon
Development Promotion Team and an Environmental Unit.   By July 31, 1993, a
staffing plan and compensation plan for the two Units would be presented to the
Bank to demonstrate the sustainability of the critical functions of the
Subsecretariat; (c) the private company which eventually develops the underground
natural gas storage facility, on the basis of the data generated under the
Project, would reimburse the Government for accumulated expenditures; (d) an
annual review of Project implementation would be held on the basis of the
performance targets outlined in Annex III. As a condition of effectiveness, the
Combustibles Subsecretariat and YPPSA will have entered into a subsidiary
agreement that provides for onlending of US$11.5 million of the loan proceeds and
defines the details for utilization of funds and the implementation of 'he
Hydrocarbon Development Promotion Team and the Environmental Unit.
13.       Benefits.  The Project would provide a firm basis for the evaluation
of future investment projects needed for the efficient implementation of YPFSA



as a private ccmpany and future private sector investments, which would be
required to ensure that the sector reform program is successful and that
hydrocarbon exports dc not lag during the current sector transformation. The
expected expanded hydrocarbon reserves and production output, coupled with the
improvements in processing and export/import infrastructure, would contribute to
increased productivity of the nation's resources, iucreasing the potential
foreign exchange inflow. The Government's "seed capital" inf4sions for promoting
early private sector investments in crude oil production and natural gas storage
oppcrtunities should facilitate greater participation by private foreign and
local firms, would increase the number of hydrocarbon producers, and would thus
ensure the success of price deregulation through increased competition.  The
institutional component would strengthen YPFSA's budget, accounting, finance and
commercial departments to enable the company to raise funds on capital markets.
14.       Risks.  The main risk is associated with possible delays in Project
execution due to uncertain implementation capacity in the Government and the new
YPFSA. The Project would attempt to reduce these risks through training of the
Government staff and strengthening of the PAU with YPF staff experienced with
Bank-supported operations. A second risk relates to the lack of private sector
participation in the natural gas storage investment. The need to proceed with
basic data collection--which would be required by any interested investor so as
to allow for timely development of the facility, once the gas distribution
network is privatized--coupled with the verification in the feasibility study
that no viable alternative solutions exist, would temper this risk.
15.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
vith the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 28, 1991



-7-
Schedule A
Page 1 of 2
AR0ENTIE REPUBLIC
HXDROCARBON ENGINEERING PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
RESTIMATED PRgJECT COSTS
PROJECT CCMPONENTS                        Local     Foreign   Total
--USSMillion Equivalent--
1.   En2ineerina Studies for Hydrocarbon
Production Enhancement:                        1.8         4.33      6.13
(a) Hydrocarbon primary and
secondary production recovery
projects:                                  0.73        2.0       2.73
(b) Enhanced tertiary recovery
projects:                                  1.07        2.33      3.4
20   Enxineerin_ Studies for Natural
Gas Processina and Storaae                     2.55         8.05    10.&
(a)  Natural gas processing facilities         0.45        1.05      1.5
(b)  Underground storage facilities            2.1         7.0       9.1
three dimensional seismic, lab tests,
and pilot injection to confirm
adequacy of structure
3. Entineerint Studies for ImDrovint
Crude Oil Processina. Narketint and
Export Pacilities                                3.          7.        10.9
(a)  Enhancement of the quality of             2.5        5.8         8.3
petroleum products for exports.
(b)  Upgrading of port facilities for
exports.                                  0.4        0.8         1.2
(c) Automation of marketing
distribution.                             0.4        1.0         1.4
SUBTOTAL ENGINEERING                                7.65       19.98       27.63



-8-~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
Prolect Coponents                              Local     FJor2g    Total
--US Million Equivalent--
4. Technical Assistance and Institutional
Strentthgnit                                     ,2.95       5.95       8.9
(a) Hydrocarbon development promotion (SC)       1.2         1.2        2.4
(b) Organization and financial systems (YPFSA) 1.75          3.25       5.0
(c) Environmental studies (YYPSA)                --         0.8         0.8
(d) Training of YPSFA technical personnel        --         0.7         0.7
SUBTOTAL INSTITUTIONAL ST ENGTHRNING             2.95        5.95       8.9
Base Cost                                     10.6        25.93     36.53
Price contingency   (SI)                       0.77        1.03      1.80
Physical contingency (52)                      0.76        1.04      1.80
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           12.13       28.00     40.13
=                 
FINANCING PLAN
YPSFA                                              10.93         --      10.93
TIRD                                                --          28.00    28.00
GOA                                                 1.20         --       1.20
TOTAL                         12.13        28.00    40.13



-9-
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINE REPUBLXC
HY2RQBXR ENG!gERSNG PBCT
0ROCUREMENT METO &L2DS1URSEMENMM
AMOUNTS AND PROCIMNT NATONQp
1.  Enianeeyrna Studie for Hydro-
Cgaron.Production Enhancement
(a) Hydrocarbon Primary &                             2.73        2.73
Secondary Recovery                               (1.63)       (1.63)
(b) Enhanced Tertiary Recovery                        3.4         3.4
(1.87)      (1.87)
2.  Encrineerine Studies for Natural
gas Proces ina & Storaae
(a) Natural Gas Processing Facilities                 1.5         1.5
(0.85)      (0.85)
(b) Underground Storage Facilities                    9.1         9.1
(9.l)3/     (9.1)
3. Sneineerina Stuldies for Xmnrovine
carude oil progessing, Marketia_ &
exzort facilities
(a) Enhancement petroleum products                    8.3         8.3
(4.72)      (4.72)
(b) Upgrading of port facilities                      1.2         1.2
(0.66)      (0.66)
(c) Automation of marketing plants                    1.4         1.4
(0.82)      (0.82)
4.  Technical Assistance & Xnstitutional
(a) Hydrocarbon Dev. Promotion Unit                   2.4         2.4
(2.4)       (2.4)
(b) MIS Systems                                      P5.0)        (5.0)
(2.66)      (2.66)
(c) Environmental Studies                             0.8         0.8
(0.65)      (0.6S)
(d) Training                                          0.7         0.7
(OS7)      (0.57)
TOTALI   36.53        36.53
(25.93)     (25.93)
A    Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IBD.
1V  Consultants' services according to Bank Guidelines.
I   Includes $7.1 million of services to be procured through LIS.
V   fotal excluding contingencies.



- 10 -
fihoue  a
Page 2 of 2
DfISURSMEMNT
XOT^L AMOUNT  PERCENTAGE OF EXPEND ITUR
(US$ Million)       TO BE FINANCED BY xlED J4gaj
1. Engineering studies for
production enhancement (YPFSA)         3.50          82% of foreign expenditure
2.  a. Engineering studies for
natural gas processing
and storage (YPPSA)                0.85           82% of foreign expenditure
b. Engineering studies for
undergrovnd storage
facilities (SC)                    9.10           100% of total expenditure
3.  Engineering studies for
improving crude oil process-
ing, marketing and export
facilities (YPFSA)                     6.20          82% of foreign expenditure
4.  a. Technical assistance and
institutional strengthening
(SC)                               2.40           100% of total expenditure
b. Technical assistance and
institutional strengthening
iYPISA)                            3.88           82% of foreign expenditure
5.  Unallocated                            2.07
28.00
ESTIMATED I=I  DISABDUASNNS
IBRD Fiscal Year
92 23 2A 95
(Us Million)
Annual                                       10  12   5   1
Cumulative                                   10  22  27  28



- 11 -
Schedule C
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
RYDROCARBON SECTOR ENGINEERING LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                   Five months
(b)  Prepared by:                             IBRD & YPFSA with assistance
from consultants
(c)  First IX D mission:                      February 1991
(d) Appraisal mission departure:              June 1991
(e)  Negotiations:                            October 1991
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           February 1992
(g)  List of relevant documents:              PCR Loan 1880-AR (June 1990)



I;!             I                                                                        i1  1                   
U2041                           f      |g||                



SCHEDULE D
- 13 -                                    Page 2 of 2
(As of September 30, 1991)
Artentina
Year                 Oblinor              Tem of Business           Total     Equity       ean
1960       AcMidar Industria Arg. S.A.s   Steel Products               3.7                  3.7
1960       Papolera Rlio Parana, S.A.s     Pulp and Paper              3.0         -        3.0
1961              Fadesa S.A.                 Automotive               1.5          -       1.5
1962       Paa                                                         3.4                  3.4
1965172    Colulosa Argentina, S.A.        Pulp and Paper             12.5         _      12.5
1969/75    Dadline Siderca, S.A.           Steel Products             17.0         -      17.0
1969       Iditorisl Codez, S.A.           Printing                   10.5        2.0       8.5
1971/73    Calera Avellaneda, S.A.         Cement                      5.5         -       5.5
1977184    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.             Textiles & Fibers          50.5        5.0     45.5
86/88
1977/85    Soyex S.A.                      Soybean Processing         21.0         _      21.0
1978185    Eeseuh, S.A.                    Pulp and Paper             31.7        4.2     27.5
87188191
1978/81    Juan Ninettit, S.A.             Cement                    104.0         -     104.0
82186
1979/82    Ipako-Industri as               Chemcals                   32.0        2.0     30.0
87192
1988189    ASTRA                           Petrochmicals              82.4         -      82.4
192
1979/83/84 AlpesCA S.A.                    Fisberies                   6.8        1.6      5.2
1984/86    Petroqidica Cuyo S.A.I.C.       Petrochemicals             46.1        4.0     42.1
1986187    ROPASA/SADICAR                  Capital Markets             2.0        2.0       -
1986       Ataner S.A.W.                   Chemicals                   8.0        1.0      7.0
1987/90    Sidra 0                         Chm       & Petroebam.   109.2        .       109.2
1987       Garavaglio/Zorraquln            Pood & Food Proe.          13.0         -      13.0
1987/90    Teaminal 6                      Port, Storage              12.5         -      12.5
/91
1988       luage y Born                    Food & Food Proe.          40.0         -      40.0
1988       Areor                           Food & Food Proc.          12.0         .      12.0
1988       D                               Dev. finance               30.0         -      30.0
1988192    ChIrete                         Cheomials                   7.4        7.4
1988       tridae                          Chemical.                  20.6         -      20.6
1988/89    Banco General de legoclos       Finance                    20.0         -      20.0
1989       AIC                             Capital Markets             2.0        2.0       -
1989       Chbihuldos                      Cham. & Petrochem.          5.0        5.0       -
1989       C.G.I.                          Money & Cap. Markets         .1         .1       -
1989       Banao Frances                   Dev. Finance               15.0         .      15.0
1986189    UBSA                            Money & Capital            26.0         -      26.0
1990191    Petroken                        chemicals                  3; 0         -      31.0
1990       CIP Servlces                                                 .1         .1
1991       WCA                             Capital Markets            10.0                10.0
1991       Banco Roberts-AG                Venture Capital             2.0        2.0      -
1992      OM  BOLSA                        Pulp & Paper                 .2         .2       -
1992       POLISUR                         Chemicals                   7.0        7.0       -
Total Gross Commitments                                  804.4        45.6    758.8
Less Cancellations, Terlmnations
Repayments a   Sales                                   438.5         3.9    442.4
Total Comitments now held by IFC                         320.3        41.7    362.0
Total Undisbursed (IFC only)                              39.5        11.2      50.7



- 14 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 14
ARGENTITA
HYDROCARBON SECTOR ENGINEERING PROJECT
Overview
1.        Argentina's production of crude oil declined steadily in the 1980s
despite the existence of substantial potential reserves.  Although production
increased in 1988 and again in 1990, the trend of declining production and
diminishing proven reserves will return unless new investments in exploration and
development of hydrocarbon are made. In addition, supply shortages of natural gas
(with which Argentina is richly endowed) could occur unless transport and
distribution bottlenecks are removed and energy consumption is moderated. However,
neither the public nor the private sectors have had the incentives and capacity to
invest as much as needed to expand supply in the most efficient way. If these
trends continue, hydrocarbon import requirements will rapidly accelerate. Also,
Argentina will not realize one of its best export possibilities.
2.        This situation is particularly crucial because of the energy sector's
impact on the economy in several respects--fiscal, investments, external and
internal debt, balance of payments, etc. The sector's share of GDP was close to
7 percent in 1987, relatively large compared to other small oil exporters. It is
projected to increase to 9 percent by the year 2000.  The energy sector has
commanded sizable financial resources over the last 20 years, during which its
annual investments averaged increases of 2.7 percent in real terms. It accounted
for 34 percent of public investment in 1971 and about 171 in the 1980s, or an
average of 3 percent of GDP. Its share of public expenditures rose from 10 percent
in 1970 to about 30 percent in 1985. The costs of developing energy resources have
heavily burdened the country's finances, e.g., comprising 23 percent of total
external debt at the end of 1988.  The lack of efficiency in the sector was
manifested in the steady fall of production since 1981, culminating in Argentina's
becoming a net importer in 1987.
3.        The foregoing problems, particularly affecting petroleum, have resulted
from a combination of factors.   Complex, distorted regulatory and investment
policies in combination with inadequate pricing and taxation have compounded
ineffictencies in the state energy institutions, notably the major sector entity,
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPP). In addition, there have been problems in
the definition of the Government's role via a vis the private sector.  Other
difficulties ensued from Argentina's failure to promote energy conservation
sufficiently in the wake of past crude oil price shocks.   These and related
problems were comprehensively described in the "Argentina Energy Sector Study"
(Report No. 7993-AR, dated February 26, 1990). It is noteworthy though that there
have been encouraging and important reforms and improvements on all these fronts
recently, partly influenced by the Bank's findings and recommendations contained
in the aforementioned report and other analyses, whose implemontation the proposed
Project is intended to advance.



- 15 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 14
A. SECTORAL CONTEXT
4.        Resources. The potential energy resources of Argentina are abundant and
diverse, including crude oil, natural gas, hydropower, biomass and coal.  Recent
technical evaluations indicate, however, that the hydrocarbons proven reserves are
not as large as had been estimated. Proven oil reserve estimates have been revised
downward by 20X to 265 million m' (1.66 billion barrels), and natural gas reserves
by 20% to 554 billion in.  At current production rates of about 71,000 m'/day
(447,000 B/D) for crude oil and 62 million m'/day for natural gas, the
reserve/production ratio for crude oil is 10 years and for natural gas 20 years.
Further exploration needs to be promoted, and the infrastructure to handle
increased production needs to be built, since it will become increasingly difficult
to supply future demand for liquid hydrocarbons from known sources and the
apparently large potential for additional natural gas discoveries needs to be
confirmed.
5.        Demand.  Crude oil and natural gas account for about 44 percent and 39
percent, respectively, of gross energy consumed in Argentina. Energy consumption
growth in Argentina has been unusually high compared to other countries of similar
GDP level and structure. Income elasticity of final demand was 1.5 in the 1960s
and 1.2 in the 19709. During 1980-85, final energy consumption was stationary,
while GDP fell about 1.5% per year. Per capita energy consumption of 10 barrels
of crude oil equivalent per year is now almost double that of neighboring Chile and
Uruguay, which have similar income levels.   From 1970 to 1986, the share of
consumption of energy for residential, agricultural, and non-energy uses increased,
while the share for industrial and transport decreased. As natural gas reserves
grew, the patterns of energy consumption have changed, mainly toward reducing
consumption of certain refined products and increasing that of natural gas. The
share of natural gas in final energy consumption increased from 15 percent in 1970
to 33 percent by 1988 with the help of highly subsidized natural gas prices. As
a result, the share of fuel oil in final energy consumption declined from almost
30 percent in 1970 to 4 percent in 1988, while hydroelectricity's share increased
from 8.5 percent in 1970 to 12 percent in 1982.  The uses of other petroleum
products remained basically unchanged over the same period.   In the process,
Argentina essentially has just been able to remain self-sufficient in hydrocarbons.
6.        Diritistic Policy.  For many years, Argentine sector policy has been
driven by the desire to ensure self-sufficiency in hydrocarbons through reliance
on state entities. The predominant player has been YPF which operated in every
branch of the industry save for the marketing of natural gas and LPG, the
responsibility of Gas del Estado (GdE). YPP possessed broad monopolistic rights
in the exploration, production, purchase, sale and transport of crude oil and
natural gas. Until recently, it held the petroleum rights to the most promising
hydrocarbons prospective areas of Argentina; private companies involvement was
possible only as risk contractors to YPF. These contractors were obligated to sell
all petroleum produced to the state company. Similarly, private refineries have
been reliant on YPF for crude oil supplies.   As late as November 1990, YPP
accounted for: (i) production of 65 percent of total crude oil directly, and



- 16 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 14
controlled the rest being produced by the private sector, (ii) more than 80 percent
of natural gas production directly, and controlled the rest through contracts with
the private sector; (iii) all pipeline, storage, shipping, port and related
infrastructure; (iv) about 70 percent of the country's refining capacity; and (v)
about 60 percent of petroleum product distribution, and sales. Furthermore, GdE
had a virtual total monopoly on transmission, distribution and sales of natural
gas.
7.        YPF and GdE also have been the regulators of their private sector
counterparts rather than their competitors. This apparently inconsistent role,
however, had no adverse effect on private sector profitability; just the reverse,
it resulted in a misallocation of resources. This phenomenon was a consequence of
arbitrary procurement restrictions, Government-guaranteed refinery margins, high
excise taxes on petroleum products and natural gas, and high-cost exploitation
contracts entered by YPF with private petroleum companies. It is estimated that
Compre Argentino ("Buy Argentine") requirements (now suspended) increased the costs
of supplies and services provided by the private sector to YPF by an aggregate
amount of more than US$550 million a year. Refinery margins set by the Government
guaranteed profits for the private sector refiners and losses for YPF.
Importlexport of crude oil and petroleum products had been highly regulated, with
export/import duties and a 10 percent surcharge making imports and exports of crude
oil and petroleum products unattractive. Excise taxes on petroleum products and
natural gas were very high, and resulted in high and very distorted consumer
prices. At the same time though, while the private sector petroleum operations
have been highly profitable under Government regulation, private companies had
limited scope for investment.
8.        Regulatory policies  and the sector's institutional  structure have
resulted in overlapping responsibilities of many Government agencies involved in
state energy operations.   This has prevented the development of clear and
consistent operational guidelines and discouraged both public and private entities
from pursuing the most profitable activities.  Even more importantly, there was no
clear separation of the Government's role as policy maker and regulator from its
role as owner of public energy enterprises. The lack of such clear institutional
arrangements has prevented substantial improvement in the efficiencies of state
enterprises, as well as mobilization of private sector resources for sector
investments.
9.        Numerous restrictions have constrained crude oil and refined products
trade. Such products could not be freely imported or exported, because if complex
restrictions on refinery crude oil supply and products output.
Pricina and Taxation
10.       Prices for hydrocarbon fuels set by the Government were inconsistent with
international prices, and the Government had been unduly responsive to continual
pressures by many special interest groups (private companies, labor unions, the
provinces, public companies, etc.) to charge favorable prices to resolve their
financial problems. Unfortunately, Government attempts to accommodate these groups
led to complex, distorted policies for pricing, regulation, and taxation.



- 17 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 14
11.       Prices received by producers have not reflected real economic co08t  or
been adequate to cover financial costs. Public companies have not been able to
recover their capital investments, pay their operating costs, or receive a
reasonable return on invested capital.  While producer prices were low, the high
level of energy taxation tended to force final consumer prices of petroleum
products above their economic cost. Energy taxation has been characterized by high
levels, a complex system of specific taxes, inflexible earmarked funds, and
multiple taxation at many stages.  This pricing and taxation system has created
severe distortions for both producers and consumers, and financial problems for
public energy companies.
Investments
12.       Investments in crude oil and natural gas exploration and production have
been distorted by misguided fiscal policies, which encouraged investment in other,
less crucial sectors, and caused excessive fear over the possible depletion of
proven hydrocarbon reserves.
13.       YPF began exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas in
1922, and developed over time into Argentina's largest single enterprise and one
of the largest oil companies in Latin America. Its annual &rosa sales (excluding
excise taxes) totalled US$4.0-4.5 billion in 1986-88.  Its employment rose to
51,700 in 1976 and more recently still exceeded 32,000. Considered in its early
years to be a leading, professionally advanced petroleum company, YPF's performance
has lately deteriorated. This has been manifested in its declining productivity,
e.g., crude oil output fell 17 percent from 1983-87 (before rising in 1990, as the
deregulftion of crude oil prices took effect). Worse still, its average production
per well dropped some 27 percent from 1981-87, necessitating increasing investment
levels to maintain the same output. And since 1981, hydrocarbon reserves have
steadily declined for lack of effective exploration.
14.       While internal inefficiency probably contributed to cause the above
situation, YPP suffered substantially from erratic and inappropriate Government
policies and lack of supervision. Because of fiscal constraints, the company's
basically sound investment strategy involved a relatively short term approacn,
of ten internally inaonsistent.  Also, it has been heavily overtaxed and could not
retain adequate funds for hydrocarbons exploration and production. Recently, it
was forced to divert important resources to develop natural gas reservoirs, but it
was inadequately reimbursed.
15.       Over the past few years, different administrations have applied shifting
pricing policies on rofined petroleum products, ranging from sharp increases to
deliberate delays in needed price adjustments (with consequent deterioration in
real prices),, because of anti-inflation tactics.  As noted above, regulatory
policies hurt YPP. Further, although YPF officially changed from a Government
department in 1977 to a semi-independent industrial enterprise, it was still
subject to considerable Government interference (e.g.9 its management, though
strong at the mcment, has mostly had minimal authority) but it also has displayed



- 18 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 14
little accountability and considerable internal instability.   YPF's Board of
Direi.tors changed frequently during the few last years, on average every six
months, and usually the directors were inexperienced in petroleum industry
management.
16.       As a result of these factors, YPF, which had a US$2.4 billion net worth
(inflation adjusted) at the end of 1980, was financially distressed. It was not
profit-oriented, and cash accumulated from operations was largely taken away by the
Government. The company could not predict access to funds since its annual budgets
were not approved by the Government until late in the year, and its cost accounting
was virtually nonexistent. In 1988, YPF registered an operating loss of US$200
million on sales of US$4.5 billion; but this figure does not account for the
financial contribution the company made to the public and private sectors. It is
estimated that YFF transferred a net US$1 billion to the Treasury and other Public
Enterprises on account of taxes, royalties, and controlled transfer prices in 1988.
GdE had operating losses of US$150 million per annum during the last five years.
Financial management decisions affecting YPF and GdE were made outside the
companies--e.g., high royalty payments to the provinces and GdE's obligation to
subsidize petrochemical manufacturers and natural gas consumers.
B. NEW APPROACHES
17.       In the mid-1980s, the Argentine authorities recognized the ominous
implications of declining crude oil output, depletion of YPF's aging reservoirs,
the company's deteriorating efficiency and inadequate investment levels. It set
about, therefore, to obtain more private sector involvement in exploration and
production. This approach recognized that YPF could not efficiently operate all
producing fields directly, while managing an aggressive exploration program,
especially because of its limited trained and motivated technical and managerial
staff. Government fiscal needs would not permit increased YPF investments. Also,
the private sector had more modern technology, more efficient management, and the
capital for better and quicker results.
18.       The first step was the 1985 "Houston Plan," under which the private
sector was offered all the available prospective acreage, i.e., 165 exploration
areas, under YPF contracts. Its most significant features included a guarantee
that service payments for the crude oil produced would be made in exportable crude
oil, if YPF were unable to make the required foreign exchauge payments. This, and
pricing improvements for the crude oil sold to YPF, provided an internationally
competitive framework for future oil exploration and eventual development.
However, despite widespread participation by international companies, the "Houston"
and subsequent "Olivos" Plans were recognized to provide only limited prospects for
resolving Argentina's hydrocarbon sector difficulties.   This was caused mostly
because crude oil and natural gas prices were set at only 80S and 341,
respectively, of international value, and contractors had no right of ownership of
the crude oil or natural gas they produced.
19.       Beginning  in 1989,  in consultation with the Bank,  the Government
recognized the need for more fundamental changes. These included: (i) increasing
the prices to be paid at the wellhead for newly-found crude oil and natural gas,



- 19 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 14
as well as for any incremental production of these hydrocarbons; (ii) eliminating
obstacles for more rapid approval of contracts for exploration and production under
the "Houston Plan"; (iii) making exploration operations for new areas much easier
by offering private firms additional technical information; (iv) awarding the
private sector the right to acquire many of the marginal areas operated by YPF; (v)
allowing free disposition of the crude oil and natural gas being produced by the
private sector; (vi) making royalty payments to be based on market values of crude
oil and natural gas; and (vii) allowing private sector participation in YPF's main
producing fields.
20.       The Menem Government, later in 1989, announced and began to implement a
policy of deregulation and privatization of the hydrocarbon sector. The Government
essentially focussed on (i) letting all hydrocarbons prices adjust automatically
to their international opportunity costs; (ii) deregulation of crude oil purchases
and sales. including imports and exports; (iii) restructuring/privatization of YPF
and GdE; and (iv) establishment of an appropriate framework for effective
regulation of natural monopolies, mainly for common carriers of all hydrocarbons.
These measures have been substantially advanced in collaboration with the Bank
under the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL) (Loan 3291-AR) and the
accompanying Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan (PEREL) (Loan 3292-AR),
approved in February 1991, and under the management improvement compor ant of the
Gas Utilization Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2592-AR), signed in May 1986.
21.       The Government  has  taken other  steps  to motivate  private  sector
investment in crude oil and natural gas production, particularly by permitting
greater direct access to existing producing fields.   Exploration/exploitation
rights to YPF "marginal" producing areas have been awarded on the basis of an up-
front  cash bonus  resulting  in US$250 million in revenues.   Most  existing
exploitation service contracts (other than the Houston Plan), where the contractor
was performing a oervice for YPF for a per barrel fee, have been converted to
either the concession or association systems, where the contractors' agreement is
with the Combustibles Subsecretariat and royalties and taxes are paid by the
private operator, who has free disposal of the crude oil produced, which has
resulted in 9 contract areas converted to concessions and 16 changed to association
agreements.  The private companies will be responsible for producing and freely
disposing of about 8 million m' per annum of crude oil, once they take full
possession of the areas under the new contracts. Previously, Gas del Estado (GdE)
had a monopoly on all sales of natural gas in Argentina and producers were
obligated to sell their natural gas to GdE at uneconomic prices. In the future,
GdE's preferential right will be subject to agreement with natural gas producers
on the basis of a sales contract, which will become effective within 30 days after
notice of the availability of natural gas for sale. Failing this the producer can
sell its natural gas production on the open market.
22.       Progress on all these new policies so far includes: (i) the award as
concessions of marginal production areas (38 areas) with payments up-front
totalling US$250 million; (ii) renegotiation of production service contracts
(representing 30% of the crude oil produced in Argentina) into concession or
association agreements; and (iii) establishment of joint ventures with private
sector companies in YPP's four main producing areas (representing at least 402 of



- 20 -
Annex I
Page 7 of 14
YPF's total production), with up-front payments in cash totalling about US$309
million for three of the fields.
23.       Liberalization of Prices. The Government has already enacted legislation
and issued successive decroes that cover in detail the various aspects of price
reform.  They specify freeing of crude oil prices to their equivalent level of
export parityll; elimination of predetermined refining and marketing margins; and
allowing consumer natural gas prices :o reach 902 of imported fuel oil equivalency
by January 1992, for large industrial and power consumers, with net-back
transportation costs for determining the producer's price for natural gas.- In
addition, hydrocarbons producers now have the right to retain all foreign exchange
sales proceeds. In the event of local currency sales, they have access up to 701
to foreign exchange, plus the right to convert sales proceeds at a rate that most
clearly reflects the real exchange relationship between US dollars and local
currency. Prices of most petroleum products are already at about international
parity prices, but substantial increases are needed for certain consumer natural
gas prices. In this regard, with funding from the Japanese Grant facility, the
Bank is conducting a study designed to assist the Government in the preparation of
a "Natural Gas Code," which covers the establishment of a natural gas regulatory
agency and the definition of rules for determining natural gas transmission and
distribution tariffs based on sound economic and financial criteria.   In the
meantime, during a transition period, natural gas prices to consumers will be
gradually increased during 1991 to reach about 90S of average FOB fuel oil price
for industrial and power plant users, by January 1, 1992, and US$6.00/NMBTU for
residential consumers, by January 1, 1992. The wellhead price to YPFSA will be
US$1.501/MBTU for natural gas, from the Neuquen fields, and US$1.20/MIBTU for
natural gas from other YPFSA fields, also effective January 1, 1992. All these
conditions are contingent on exchange rate variations and fuel oil prices
prevailing at these dates.  After a transition period, whose duration will be
decided by the Combustibles Subsecrstariat, large buyers of natural gas will
compete openly for available production. Also, preferential fuel oil or natural
gas prices to electric power producers are to be eliminated.
24.       Deretulation of Trade. Crude oil producers can now sell their production
to the highest bidder, trade in crude oil, and have the right to import crude oil
and refined products subject to general tariff policies.   It is expected that
within the next 18 months the private sector will eventually control more than 50
percent of the total production of crude oil, once private companies take over the
operations of the marginal, service contract, and central areas. All producers
would have access to treatment, transport, storage, and shipment infrastructure at
a comon-carrier-type tariff, until competition is established in the transport
business. New refineries and service stations may be opened without requiring
special permits and service stations can be freely owned. In the event of export
restrictions (which must be Announced at least 12 months before becoming
A/ As Argentina is a marginal exporter of crude oil and petroleum products,
international parity is tested by comparing YPF prices to export prices in
suitable reference markets (Houston for crude oil and Rotterdam for
petroleum products).



- 21 -
Annex I
Page 8 of 14
effective), the domestic price for crude oil and petroleum products would be set
at parity with imported similar crude oils or refined products. In the event of
restrictions on the free availability of natural gas, the natural gas price to the
*      producers would be set at the calorific equivalent of no less than 35 percent of
the per barrel price of Arabian Light crude oil (FOB).
25.       Regulatory and Policy Framework.  The Argentine Authorities' plan aims
at establishing an environment of open competition and equal opportunity for both
public and private companies in the exploration, production, sales, and
distribution of energy resources. The Government would limit its own function to
setting the general parameters for the development of the sector and to regulating
its operations, when necessary. Revised regulations for natural gas transportation
and distribution, pipeline construction and operations, export infrastructure,
transportation, tariffs, etc. need to be promulgated.  A regulatory structure is
required to ensure orderly implementation of privatization and operation by the
private companies.   The Cantral Government needs to prepare itself for:  (i)
establishment of ad-valorem taxes on petroleum products and natural gas (which
should influence, positively, energy conservation); (ii) promotion of hydrocarbons
exploration/production activities by both state enterprises and private concerns,
and negotiation of contracts with these entities; and (iii) development of a
national energy strategy. The state enterprises would terminate their current
regulatory roles, such as YPF's monitoring of the work done by private oil
companies and GdE's supervision of the design of natural gas pipeline and
distribution  systems.    The policy-making  and  regulatory  agencies  will be
strengthened  in  terms  of organization  and human, financial and  logistical
resources, as well as with appropriate legislation to assume those expanded
responsibilities. The newly created Subsecretariat of Combustibles will be the arm
of the GOA for the hydrocarbon sector. It will be responsible for the bidding on
exploration  areas,  and  for  regulating  the  envir_nmental policies  in  the
exploration, production, and refining fields.
Privatizatf.-2
26.       YPP will ultimately become a private petroleum  company, altering
fundamentally its relationship with the Central Government, private producers,
suppliers, and labor unions.  Since February 1991, the new YPFSA has become a
shareholding company (Sociedad Anonima) with the Government as the main shareholder
and a corporate structure similar to a private corporation. With Bank assistance,
studies have been completed under the Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance loan
to define what business activities of YPPSA will be 4-edistely sold. The PEREL
will finance additional studies to examine strategic plans of the restructured YPP,
to support the privatization of natural gas transmission and distribution systems,
to define the needed changes in the legal regime to provide administrative and
financial autonomy, and the future reporting and control relationship with the
Government, as well as the privatization of redundant components.  Under the
proposed Project, the restructuring process would be assisted by development of
improved commercial and management information and control systems to enable YPFSA
to produce financial reports acceptable to the international stock exchanges and
investment bankers.



- 22 -
Annex I
Page 9 of 14
C. ROLE 0'? THE BANg
27.       Past Experience.  The Bank's four past hydrocarbons sector loans, which
totalled US$623.5 million, were directed to support the integrated development of
these energy resources. At the outset, these were mainly concerned with resource
assessment and sector planning (Oil and Gas Engineering, Loan 1880-AR, whose PCR
was issued in June 1990) and providing appropriate incentives to domestic producers
(Oil and Gas Credit, Loan 2031). Subsequently, the Refinery Conversion Project
(Loan 2032 and its supplement) was directed at converting low-value fuel oil into
higher-value products.  It enabled Argentina to reduce significantly light and
middle distillate imports. The ongoing Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2592) is aimed at increasing the production of natural gas and
associated liquids and expanding natural gas usage in industry.   Its main
components, installation of a new natural gas liquid recovery plant and removing
bottlenecks from the existing Campo Duran treatment and refining facilities, are
vell advanced. The Project is scheduled to be completed in 1992. All of these
projects proceeded satisfactorily in general, but suffered delays and financial
difficulties as a result of the country's sustained economic uncertainties and
prolonged recession, exacerbated by inconsistent and inadequate sector policy
direction. These deficiencies, which are detailed in paras. 6 to 16 of this Annex,
caused particularly limited progress in meeting the Bank projects' covenants
regarding product pricing and YPF institutional targets. As a result of these
difficulties, the Bank undertook an Energy Sector Study (ref. Report 7993-AR),
'here the systems of energy pricing and taxation were dealt with in detail and
recommendations were made for significant reforms and further private sector
participation. The understanding of the sector, resulting from these experiences,
contributed substantially to the recent Government-Bank collaboration in the design
of the aforementioned reforms in pricing, regulation, taxation and the role of the
state enterprises, whose implementation are handled under the PERAL/PEREL loans.
28.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank has played an active role in
promoting public enterprise reform in Argentina over the last years, without which
the critical reforms needed in the hydrocarbons sector would have been less likely
to proceed. The PERAL/PEREL addressed, and should bring about, major changes in
the policy and regulatory framework of the energy dector (a vital part of
Argentina's economy), as well as in the role and institutional structure of YPFSA.
To advance the process, complementary actions are needed to alter YPFSA's
structure, fundamentally in its adaptation to a new role, and more basically, to
help meet Argentina's hydrocarbons requirements more efficiently and effectively
than in the past. Simultaneously, the private sector needs further encouragement
in the form of improved export infrastructure facilities and the development of
concrete investment opportunities to translate into reality the Government's
decision to turn towards greater reliance on private enterprise participation. In
addition, the Central Government's newly defined policies and regulatory role need
to be established and firmly entrenched, a difficult task now when public
administration is so weak.  These requirements provide the foundation for the
proposed loan.



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 10 of 14
D. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
29.       The Project aims to: (a) help YPPSA make an effective transition to its
new commercial role and eventual privatization, ard bring about improvements in the
efficiency of its operations end capacity of export infrastructure; (b) expand
opportunities for mobilizing greater private enterprise investment in the sectort
(c)  strengthen  the  Government's  hydrocarbor  policy-making  and  regulatory
capabilities; and (d) support energy conservation and bolster the Government's
efforts in developing and enforcing environmental and safety standards.
30.       The proposed Engineering Project would provide technical assistance to:
(a) conduct engineering studies to obtain designs, specifications and drawings in
sufficient detail to prepare sets of tender documents for: (i) enhancement of
primary, secondary and tertiary hydrocarbon recovery in fields retained by YPPSA;
(ii) improvement of natural gas processing plants and definition of the adequacy
of storage facilities; and (iii) enhancement of crude oil petroleum processing,
marketing, and export infrastructure; (b) appraise the environmental impact of the
projects mentioned in (a) (i-iii); (c) develop in the Combustibles Subsecretariat,
Miniastry of Economy, the capability to oversee hydrocarbons sector activities,
promote and negotiate contracts for hydrocarbons exploration-production, and
monitor environmental policies; and (d) design and implement management information
and accounting systems for YPFSA's transition from a state enterprise to a private
corporation.
31.       Production Enhancement. The proposed technical assistance would provide
studies for analyzing and identifying opportunities for significantly increasing
YPPSA's natural gas and liquid hydrocarbons production and resource base. These
activities are directly related to the Project's first objective, of readying YPPSA
for eventual privatization through improvement of its assets. One strand of this
would involve studies for expansion of the company's successful experience under
the GUTM Project in initiating more advanced secondary and enhanced oil recovery
operations. These studies would determine the feasibility of injecting water into
four oil fields (Escalante-La Margarita, Desfiladero Bayo, Aguada Toledo and El
Tordillo) in prospective "water flood" projects, to be possibly promoted as a joint
venture with the private sector.   Others would result in the design for
construction of dew point plants to increase recovery of liquid hydrocarbons from
the Loma de Is Lata, natural gas field, and also the preparation of pilot enhanced
recovery projects.
32.       In addition, a seismic survey, followed by a pilot natural gas storage
test, would be made on two geological structures, located at the junction of the
Center West-Mendoza/San Juan-Beazley/Buenos Aires natural gas pipelines, to
evaluate the feasibility of using these structures as natural gas storage for peak
shaving  during  the  winder  months.    These  activities  are  based  on  the
recommendations of a feasibility study, prepared by international consultants,
which assessed alternative storage solutions. The Governmnt would carry out the
proposed activities in order to provide the technical confirmation of the Project's
viability. The Government is taking the lead in this, as private sector interest



- 24 -
Annex I
Page 11 of 14
is not expected to materialize until natural gas  distribution systems are
privatized (expected for 1993), and in this sub-project timing is important. The
results of the study should be ready when the natural gas transportation systems
were privatized, making it possible for private companies transporting natural gas
to invest in the development of this storage, to allow its use by the different
transporters either in associated ownership or on a storage fee basis.   This
activity is related to t:&e Project's second objective, i.e., expanding private
enterprise investment in the sector. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that these investors would reimburse YPFSA for the costs of all preparatory work.
The base cost of the required consultants is estimated at US$16.7 million.
33.       Export and MLarketing Enhancement.  The proposed technical assistance
would include studies for the improvement of crude oil processing and marketing
facilities, as well as the related export insastructure, which will be used as
common storage and terminals by YPFSA, as well as by the private sector, until the
private sector is ready to construct its own installations. These studies would
cover basic and detailed design and engineering.  They would address crude oil
loading and dispatch installations at two marine terminals (Caleta Cordova and
Caleta Olivia).   In addition,  the studies would examine the feasibility of
upgrading the pumping installations at the Puesto Hernandez tank farm terminal to
develop a more efficient crude oil transfer system.  They also would determine the
technical and economic viability of modernizing YPFSA's lube oil plant complex in
relation to export (as well as domestic) market prospects. While these activities
are primarily related to the Project's first objective of improving YPF's
operations, the private sector is also expected to benefit from use of export
facilities.   The base cost of the required consultants is estimated at US$7.3
million.
34.       Energv Conservation and Environmental Protection.   Related to the
objective of improving YPF's operations, the proposed technical assistance would
examine possible environmental problems and improvements in energy usage within
YPFSA's operations.   One component would consist of feasibility studies for
upgrading the treatment and handling of effluents from YPFSA's refineries. This
would concentrate on the La Plata refinery, which presently discharges effluents
with hydrocarbon concentrations of 50 mg/i, substantially above the levels set by
Argentine laws  Another component would provide diagnoses and the resulting action
plans for reducing energy consumption in the company's main (Luyan de Cuyo and La
Plata) refineries. They now consume some 1.7 million tons of fuel oil annually
which, estimates show, could be reduced by almost 60 percent. The base cost of the
required consultants is estimated at US$3.6 million.
35.       Institutional Strengthenin_. The Governmenc's newly formed Combustibles
Subsecretariat would be strengthened by the creation of a Hydrocarbon Development
Promotion Team and an Environmental Unit, whose staff would be trained under the
proposed Engineering Loan.   In addition to its role in promoting hydrocarbons
exploration and production activities, and participating in contract negotiations
and awards, the Subsecretariat, under its general hydrocarbons sector oversight
functions, would replicate the environmental protection work done in the power
sector. This would involve developing environmental management manuals that would
set the standards to be followed by YPPSA and all other operators for the



- 25 -
Annex L.
Page 12 of 14
protection of the environment in all phases of petroleum operations - exploration,
development, pipelines and storage facilities, marine terminals, and refineries.
Consultants would be employed to assist the Subsecretariat in developing these
manuals and in defining the system to be employed in monitoring the industry's
compliance with the standards. The loan would finance consultants who would assist
in the creation of these units and in carrying out their functions, including the
training of counterpart staff. It is intended that consultants would be gradually
phased out over a three year period. To ensure and demonstrate the sustainability
of the critical functions of the Subsecretariat, a staffing plan and salary
compensation plan for these units would be presented to the Bank within 12 months
after the creation of these units, for which a deadline of July 31, 1992 has been
set. In the interim, the Government would finance the "start up" expenses of these
teams, estimated at US$1.2 million over the Project's period.
36.       Technical assistance will also be provided to the new YPPSA to help in
its transformation from a state corporation into a shareholding company.
Particular emphasis will be placed on improving accounting, budgeting, treasury
functions, and financial information systems, and procurement procedures. The base
cost of the required consultants is US$8.9 million, both for the Combustibles
Subsecretariat and YPFSA.
E. PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
37.       The total cost of the components under the proposed Engineering Project
is estimated at US$40.1 million, including US$28.0 million equivalent in foreign
costs. IBRD financing for US$28 million (70X) is proposed. YPFSA would meet the
remaining project costs estimated at US$12.1 million to cover all local costs. The
Central Government would contribute US$1.2 million equivalent for the Hydrocarbon
Development Promotion Team and Environmental Unit; the remaining costs of this
component and the natural gas storage would be provided by YPFSA under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between YPFSA and the Government.
P. ENVIRONMENTAL ASP_ECTS
38.       There is no adverse environmental impact associated with the proposed
Engineering Project.  However, the follow-up Hydrocarbon Sector Rehabilitation
Project (to finance joint YPFSA private sector projects)--which includes increased
crude oil production, through the application of secondary and enhanced recovery
methods,  the  expansion  and  modernization  of  the  exportlimport  harbor
infrastructure, as well as natural gas processing, transportation and storage
facilities--could potentially impact on the environment through pollution of the
River Plate due to: (a) crude oil spillage from the expanded import/export
3.nfrastructure, and (b) pollution of the area due to crude oil leaking into the
refinery liquid's waste. The proposed Engineering Project would include diagnostic
studies of these possibilities to examine any foreseeable adverse effects on the
environment and what preventive steps should be taken. A positive impact of the
Project on the environment would be the improvement in energy conservation and
pollution control, which is planned for three of YPPSA's reflueries, and also by
reducing oulphur and lead pollution by the use of higher quality gasoline.



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 13 of 14
G. PROJECT EXECUTION
39.       YPF's Project Administration Unit (PAU), which effectively directed the
Refinery Conversion Project (Loan 2032-AR), and is currently in charge of the Gas
Utilization and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2592-AR) will have overall
responsibility  for the administration of the Project.   This unit will be
strengthened by the addition of engineers representing a variety of fields, as vell
as finance and administration experts seconded from concerned departments from
YPPSA, as the need arises. The PAU will operate separately from the main body of
YPFSA and report directly to the President of YPFSA. The unit has prepared the
basis for the Terms of Reference for the consultants, who will prepare project
design and engineering specifications, as well as tender documents for the
implementation of the Project.
H. PROCUREMENT
40.       Consultants and technical assistance services to be financed by the loan
would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants.
The consultant to whom the natural gas storage facility will be awarded will
subcontract the services for detailed seismic and corehole drilling under limited
international bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank and with the approval of
the borrower.
I. SPECIAL ACCOUNT
41 .      To expedite loan disbursement and payment of services, YPFSA would
establish a Special Account in the Central Bank of Argentina, which will function
as a Revolving Fund for IBRD's contributions. An initial deposit of US$4 million
would be made from the proceeds of the proposed loan upon effectiveness. This
figure represents four months estimated average disbursements; and details of the
establishment and operation of the special account and other disbursement
procedures have been agreed. Statement of Expenditures will be used for contracts
of less than US$650,000.
J. DISBURSEMENT
42.       Since the bulk of the Project is composed of short term technical
assistance and training, disbursements would be made ever four years, a somewhat
shorter. period than indicated in the average disbursement profile for technical
assistance projects in the Latin America Region. This is justified by the good
performance by YPF under the GUTA Project. The Closing Date of the proposed loan
would be December 31, 1994.
K. MONITORING. REPORTING AND AUDITS
43.       YPPSA would submit to the Bank monthly progress reports on all activities
financed under the loan and quarterly reports on the implementation of the Project
in a format acceptable to the Bank. After completion of the Project, YPFSA would
submit a completion report no later than six months after the loan Closing Date.
YPJSA would select an independent auditor, satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 14 of 14
annual audits of the Project's accounts, including the Special Account. Audit
reports vill be due no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
These would be reviewed on annual review meetings of Project implementation, based
on the targets outlined in Annex III.
L. ACTIONS TAMEN AMD AGREEMENTS REACHED
44.       The following actions have already been taken by YPFSAt
(a) reinforcement of the PAU engaged in the supervision and
coordination of the GUTA Project (Loan 2592-AR) to cover the
proposed Engineering Project; and
(b)  all 31 draft Terms of Reference for the consultants to be hired for
the Project have been reviewed and agreed with the Bank.
45.       During negotiations, the following agreements were confirmed:
(a) that the PAU would be kept intact throughout the life of the
Project;
(b) that a subsidiary agreement will be entered for loan effectiveness
between the Combustibles Subsecretariat and YPFSA to define the
details for the use of funds for the implementation of both the
Hydrocarbons Development Promotion Unit and of the Environmental
Unit as well as for the execution of the natural gas underground
storage study; and
(c) that the Government's newly formed Combustibles Subsecretariat
would be strengthened by the creation, not later than July 31,
1992, of a Hydrocarbons Development Promotion Unit and an
Environmental Unit, whose staff would be trained under the Project.
Within 12 months after the establishment of the Unit or not later
than the date mentioned above, a staffing plan and a salary
compensation plan for these Units will be presented to the Bank to
demonstrate the sustainability of the critical functions of the
Subsecretariat.
Task Manager:    Mr. George Khoury-Haddad
Peer Reviewers: Mr. Alain Barbu
Mr. Chakib Khelil



- 28 -
AMEN-TX ~    ~      ANE  I
HYDROCARBON SECTOR ENGINEERING PROJECT
SVPERVISION PLN
1.    Bank Sunervision Iniut for Rey Activities
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of program reports, procurement
action, audit statements, correspondence, etc.
Bank Sunervision Input for Key Activities
Approximate                                Expected Skill         Staff Input
_   Date             Activitv               Rearuirements         Staff Weeks
09/25/91        Suoervision Mission          Geologist                 4.0
Start-up activities         Enqineer
Financial Analyst
12/02/91        Supervision Mission         Geologist                  6.0
Review progress of          Engineer
engineering studies         Financial Analyst
Environment Specialist
06/01/92        Sug2ryision iasion           Geologist                 4.0
Review progress and         Engineer
cost of the main            Financial Analyst
components of Hydro-
carbon Sector
Rehabilitation loan.



ARGENTINA
NIRCARN  ENGINEERING LOAN
PROJECT TECHNICAL ACTIVITIES
Prodwttln Ed%ent
1. Prepre feaibility study    a. Oesni of Telemetric               .PPM                             a. Proper centrot of field       Start: Nov. 1991
for  aptiztion of natural        Control System for Productfon                                      prodction and allocaton.         Cowlete:  July 1992
gas   e crud aft prodLiction     (TOR 2).
for existing fields.
b. Design of secondary and       YPFSA                            b. Optimization of crude oil    StUrt  Nov. 1991
tertiary recovery projects                                        recovery from proiacing           Complete: July 1993
(TOR 1*3 7).                                                      fields.
c.  Iurtovewent of liquid        TPFSA                            c. Optimi2ation of natural        Start: Nov. 1991
extraction efficiency in                                          gas liquid extraction and         Complete: July 1993
natural gas reservoirs to                                         energy savings.
_ prevent flaring (TOR 465S6).
Stoo
1. Studies for maxlmizing        1. Detailed eneineering f'        YPFSA                            1. Increased production of       Start: Nov. 1991
liqufd prodction frem            dew pofnt separators (TgO                                          condensate.                      Complete: end 1992
cendensate fields.               89 t10).
2. Petalled feasibility          2. Detailed geological.           YPFSA and Subsecretariat de      2. Determining adequacy of       Star.: Nov. 1991
studies for underground          geqghysicat, and taboratory       Ccibustibles                     underarod reservoir storage.   Complete:  nd Is3
storeae (access to SWn           work for underurouid storage
weranhio and MaNdtei) for        (TOE 11).
preparation of bidding package
to the private sector.
1. I qovent of crude oil         1. Engineering studie  In         TPFSA                            1. Nore efficient terminal       Start: Nov. 1991
proadwction of regonat           crude loading and dispatch                                         traffic for both public and      Complete: mid-1993
terminals.                      terminals (TOR 12,13.14,15).                                       private sector association.
2. Modernization studies for     2. Engineering studies for        YPFSA                            2. Assurance of accuracy of      Start: Now. 1991
dispatch plants for petroleum    automation storage mnd                                             pro duct stocks and sales for    Complete: mid-1993
prodocts.                        dispatch plants (TOR                                               private and pubtf sectorsa
21.22,23).                                                        using storage and dispatch
facilities.
0,-
3. iqare unt of energY           3. Engineering studies for        TPFSA                            3. Energy savings product        Start. Nov. 1991
efficieney in retineries and     irovement of enery                                                 efficiency, marketabitity and    Complete: end 1993
pollution control.               etffienc  and pollution                                            pollution control.
control (air and effluents)
(TOR 16 17.18.19.20).



.___________ 1 ''._____""                                                      ______. __. .....  .  ,..-,U, '..,' '                      *    min'.
D). Institutional Strenhthenina
1. Strenstbening techaical      1. Setting up hydrocarbon        YPFSA and Subsocretartat de     a. Setting up body to promte    Starts  ov. t991
espetilty of Secretareat do    cprotion and exploration date   combustibles.                     furtber exploration by           Cacptete: mid-1994
Cmixastiblas.                   bank (Yea 24X25).                                                packaging tecdnicat
Information on areas to be
bldced out to the private
sector.
b. Monitoring the bidding
proce*s avard of exploration
reas sligning of nu
contracts and overseeing  n
exPloration activities by the
private sector.
2. Troanrdming YPF into a       2. lqovement of econosfi         YPFSA                           2. Enabting YPFSA to             Starts  Nov. 1991
camrcially-oriented coqaw.   dts system for m_ugement of                                         facilitate privatization         Complote: mid-I993
ftlow of ts  tax pasents                                        activities.
en stock meret (TOM                                             a. Transformation of YPFSA
26,27,28129,30).                                                Into a private corporation.
b. Alloting the tale of VPFSA
shares to private omners.
c. Opening of internationat
markets to IPFSA.
3. Develtmpnt of                3. Assesment of potential        Subsecretariat de Combustibies   3. identifying effects of       Start: Nov. 1991
awirmentat ass_ment and        envirmmental liapct of the                                       hydrocarbon sector project      Coptete: end 1992                o
reouations.                    ftu   hydrocarbon project ad                                      coponents on envirreent and
prepratien of Nwal for                                          dissemination of amai for
Evframentat Man_ament (TOt                                      Ei ranental  anagement.
31).
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
Hydrocarbon Enoineerina Proiect
List of
Terms of Reference
1 thru 31
I.   Unaineering Studies for Production Enhancement
ZA. XNdrocarbon Primarv & Secondary Recovery
Manpower
TORls  3 man-months       Secondary Recovery Project at the
Eacalante-La Margarita Oil Field
TOR2: 24 man-months       Implementation of Telemetering and
Telecontrol Systems for Monitoring
Production Operations
TOR3s 24 man-months       Construction and Erection of Secondary
Recovery Water Injection Plants
TOR4:  3 man-months       Natural Gas Reinjection Project at the
Filo Morado Gas Field
TORS: 24 man-months       Improved Exploitation of Natural
Gas Fields
TOR6: 12 man-months       The Re-Injection of Natural Gas in the
Sierra Barrosa Field
TOR7: 40 man-months       Enhanced Recovery Pilot Projects
xI.  Enaineerinc Studies for Natural Gas
Processina and Storaae
8 A. Natural Gas Processina Facilities
Man-power
TORS:  4 man-months       Improvements at El Cond6r Natural Gas
Treatment Plant
TOR9:  8 man-months       Natural Liquids Improved Recovery
Construction of the Fifth Recovery Plant
at the Lomas de la Lata field
TOR10: 8 man-months       Construction of a Natural Gas
Treatment Plant at the fields
Aqu&da La Pichana-Aquada del Rodeo



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
1ZI. Underground Storage Facilities
TOR11: 36 man-months       Underground Storage Facilities Project
1I1. Enaginering Studies for fmorovinM
Crude Oil Processine. Marketing and Exvort Facilities
SIIA. A Uoaradino of Port Facilities for Exgort
Man-power
TOR12: 12 man-month        Improvements in the Main Pumping
Station at the Puesto Hernandez
Crude Oil Dispatch Terminal
TOR13: 10 man-months       Enhancement of the Crude Oil Loading
and Dispatch System at the Caleta
C6rdova Terminal
TOR14: 11 man-months       Enhancement of the Caleta Olivia Marine
Terminal for Dispatch and Loading of
Crude Oil
TOR15: 12 man-months       Optimization of the Main Transport
and Evaluation System of the Chubut
Comodoro Rivadavia Region
1113. Enhancement of Petroleum Product Oualitv for Extorts
TOR16: 60 man-months       Remodelling of the Lube Oils Plant
Complex
TOR17: 30 man-months       Improved Energy Efficiency
in the Refineries
TOR18: 24 man-months       Integral  Study  of  Refinery  Effluents
Project
TORl9: 34 man-months       Recovery of Coke Residues Project
TOR20s 35 man-months       Ballast Water Treatment Project
IZIC. Automation of Marketina Plants
TOR21: 10 man-months       Automation of the Storage and Dispatch
Plants for Light Petroleum Products



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
TOR22: 18 man-months      Construction of a New Distribution
Plant at Comodoro Rivadavia
TOR23:  4 man-months      Installation of a Gasoline Dispatch and
storage Plant
IV. Technical Assistance and Institutional Strenothening
IVA. Hydrocarbon Develooment Promotion
Man-power
TOR24: 24 man-months      Hydrocarbon Development Promotion
Unit at the SubSecretariat of Fuels
TOR25:  8 man-months      Exploration-Exploitation Data
Bank Project
IVD Orranisation & Information System.
TOR26:  4 man-months      Adaptation and Improvements of the
Economic-Financial Data Systems
TOR27:  8 man-months      Development of a System
for Managing the Flow of Funds
T0R28: 11 man-months      Development of a Tax Payment System
TOR29: 12 man-months      Development of a Procurement System
TOR30: 6 man-months       Procurement Specialist for
Document Preparation
IVC Environeental Studies
TOR31: 15 man-months      Environmental Diagnosis and Manual



72  N        BOLIVIA    "'
('    SEDIMENTARY BASiNS
3. __6,fe                    V4    ,I    J                                                                                          R           ,
3 Son Lois                _S             J
4 SUn Lu,s                                                                     PARAGUAY
5~C                              LSN    .S-cin RE
7. Lftalle                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
12. Ni,il.                                                       B        O5
13. Po. V0ldhs
1).Jrgne  Miguel deli'T            A 1Co4rn't)
IS.~~~~ As"l         I    _                         I     9 
16.Man*Au"l       /C ATAMARCA                   ANTIA
17. son J
i                                    . Cot.rc.-   '-            CRGRNENNA
SAN  \            ~         ~           ~        F~
I JUA                               0 M 3 ;;                                  ILANCASIIDSYLO A
k ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~COJ&tkOBA   *13
32                  C                                                          U                                     B                                     32o
ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
jM N *N,ENOS AIRES
_K  UI              '   '                  ^*                                  CdeioraUl o  is
i           L'  I R E S
! L A fAM    
NEUQUE  ElMedenit.       3"                        a~~~~3  oMor4el plta
a; oAisia Bianco
-40-                                                                      Vio_b                                                                            40
ARGENTINA
bfOILAD GAS INDUSTRY LOCATIONS
Prvos R4kCa.. d(21
// ~ ~ ~ ~~.                                              Housto Pkm Areas
Cmdonrad and Cea Area
-  ~~~~~~ ftJ                             w ~~~~~~~~~ Crde Oil or Natural Gas Fields
S      Crude Oil Stor05e
la     Products Storage
X~~~~~~~7 A-i                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    Airp~ortPlalnts
f   \  SANTA'I                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Crude OilPFipelines
I           ~~~~~~~18                                              Natuol Gas Pipelin,es
CRUZI                                              -~~~~~~~~~~----- ~~~~~~PoductsPipelines
]    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Ca6otage Sea RoutesAS
A                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Export Sea Routes
Mooring Heads
t                                      ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Maeor ng Plonts
Rivers
L                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so6atls(Water Depth) n Meters
50                                                                                                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
O        tOO      21)0      360       4(10      50                                              PIs



