Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3416 AR 
(Hydrocarbon Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
YPF SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
Dated March 12, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3416 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 12, 1992 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and YPF SOCIEDAD ANONIMA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Argentine Republic (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
any financing so provided by the Bank would be refunded, if the Bank so 
requests, out of the proceeds of any loan by the Bank or credit by the International 
Development Association which may later be granted to the Borrower;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the  General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Banco Central" means the Central Bank of the Guarantor; 
 
(b)
"Central Areas" means the main petroleum producing areas in the territory 
of the Guarantor, known as Vizcacheras, Puerto Hernandez and El Tordillo and El Huemul 
Koluel Kaike, located in the basins of Cuyana, Neuquen and San Jorge, respectively;
(c)
"Estatutos" means the charter of the Borrower approved by Decree No. 
2.778, dated December 31, 1990, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
"PAU" means the Project Administration Unit established within the 
Borrower and referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(e)
"SC" means Sub-Secretaria de Combustibles, the Guarantor's Subsecretariat 
of Fuels, under the Ministry of Economy, Public Works and Services;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(g)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-eight million dollars 
($28,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Banco Central a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A (i) and (ii), B, C (i) and D of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, engineering 
and petroleum industry practices, and the implementation schedule set forth in the 
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the 
Bank, with the Guarantor, such agreement to contain, inter alia:
Page  4
(i)
the terms and conditions of the onlending to the Guarantor of part 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category 2 of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for 
purposes of carrying out Parts A (iii), C (ii) and E of the 
Project, in accordance with Section 3.01 of the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
(ii)
provisions for the payment, by the Borrower to the Guarantor, of 
the fee referred to in Section 5.02 of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A (i) and (ii), B, C (i) 
and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose selection, 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants in the 
performance of their services for Parts A (i) and (ii), B, C (i) and D of the Project 
and make available to them all information relevant to such Parts of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to furnish to the Bank 
copies of the documents prepared by them for such Parts of the Project, including 
reports and drafts thereof, plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and 
estimates of costs, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d)
With respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations 
and other conclusions contained in the documents referred to in the preceding 
paragraph:
(i)
during the carrying out of Parts A (i) and (ii), B, C (i) and D of 
the Project, the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time 
exchange views on said recommendations and conclusions; and
(ii)
upon completion of Parts A (i) and (ii), B, C (i) and D of the 
Project, the Borrower shall consult with the Bank on the 
recommendations and conclusions relating thereto and, in agreement 
with the Bank shall initiate the implementation of a program to 
strengthen the Borrower's operational capabilities in finding new 
hydrocarbon reserves, in increasing petroleum and natural gas 
production and in improving the processing efficiency of the 
Borrower's refineries, in the light of such recommendations and 
conclusions.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, without limitation to its obligations under 
Article IX of the General Conditions, not later than June 30 of each year, beginning 
in 1992, exchange views with the Bank and the Guarantor on the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in carrying out Parts A (i) and (ii), B, C (i) and D of the Project, 
including the implementation schedule set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Until the Project shall have been completed, the Borrower shall 
maintain PAU at all times duly staffed and equipped to the satisfaction of the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and petroleum industry practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
Page  5
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and petroleum industry practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including records and separate accounts for Parts A (i) and (ii), B, C (i) 
and D of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts (including the separate accounts 
referred to in Section 5.01 (a) above) and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and accounts for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures under Category (1) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor a guarantee fee of 
one-eighth of one percent (0.80%) per annum on the equivalent in dollars of the 
principal amount of the Loan allocated to Category (1) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, from time to time outstanding, such 
equivalent to be calculated at the exchange rates between dollars and the several 
currencies disbursed by the Bank prevailing on the date of each disbursement from the 
Loan Account.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Page  6
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a change shall have been made in 
the Estatutos which shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Parts A 
(i) and (ii), B, C (i) and D of the Project or the operations or financial condition 
of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Guarantor and the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Guarantor and the Borrower shall have entered into the 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
(b)
that all actions have been taken by the Guarantor in order to permit the 
procurement of services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and in the Guarantee 
Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Guarantor and the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Guarantor and the Borrower 
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the actions referred to in Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement have 
been taken.
Section 7.03. The date June 9, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
YPF Sociedad Anonima
Avda. Roque Saenz Pena, 777
1364 Buenos Aires
Republica Argentina
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
 
PETROLEUM 
0121999 - Argentina
Buenos Aires
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
YPF SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
By /s/ Daniel Marx
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'              14,500,000        82% of foreign
    services for                                expenditures
    Parts A (i)
    and (ii), B,
    C (i) and D of
    the Project
(2) Consultants'              11,500,000        100%
    services for
    Parts A (iii),
    C (ii) and E
    of the Project
(3) Unallocated                2,000,000
    TOTAL                     28,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statement of expenditures for such expenditures and under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of the Borrower's 
operations, help the Guarantor in strengthening its policy and regulatory capacity 
regarding the hydrocarbon sector and in supporting its energy conservation policies as 
well as its efforts in developing and enforcing environmental and safety standards in 
the hydrocarbon sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Production Enhancement
 
Carrying out of detailed engineering design, specifications and drawing to help 
the Borrower and the Guarantor, through SC, in the drafting of sets of tender 
documents for:
(i)
enhancement of primary, secondary and tertiary hydrocarbon 
recovery in fields located outside the Central Areas;
(ii)
construction of natural gas processing; and
 
(iii)
definition of adequacy of natural gas underground storage 
facilities.
Part B:
Export and Marketing Enhancement
 
Carrying out of studies for the improvement of crude oil processing and 
marketing, and related export infrastructure.
Part C:
Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection
 
Carrying out of studies to: (i) appraise the environmental impact related to the 
carrying out of the activities referred to in Parts A and B of the Project, and to 
improve the savings of energy in the operations of the Borrower; and (ii) prepare an 
environmental management manual.
Part D:
Borrower's Institutional Strengthening
 
Detailed redesigning of the financial information and accounting systems of the 
Borrower.
Part E:
Guarantor's Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Establishment and carrying out of a program to document geological data, aimed 
at attracting private investors to non-committed areas for future exploration and 
development of hydro-carbons.
2.
Development, in SC, of the capabilities to oversee private sector hydrocarbon 
activities and to negotiate agreements for the exploration and promotion of 
hydrocarbons.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Implementation Schedule
                                                 Executing
Component               Activity                  Agency      Dates
Part A (i) of      (a)   design of telemetric    Borrower    started by
of the Project           control system for                  December 15,
                         production                          1991 completed
                                                             by July 31,
                                                             1992
Page  9
                   (b)   design of secondary     Borrower    started by
                         and tertiary                        December 15,
                         projects                            1991 completed
                                                             by July 31,
                                                             1993
                   (c)   improvement of liquid   Borrower    started by
                         extraction efficiency               December 15,
                         in gas reservoirs to                1991 completed
                         prevent flaring                     by July 31, 1993
Parts A (ii)       (a)   detailed engineering    Borrower    started by
and (iii) of             for dew point                       December 15,
the Project              separators                          1991 completed
                                                             by December 31,
                                                             1992
                   (b)   detailed geological,    SC          started by
                         geophysical and                     December 15,
                         laboratory work for                 1991 completed
                         underground storage                 by December 31,
                                                             1993
Part B of          (a)   engineering studies     Borrower    started by
the Project              in crude loading and                December 15,
                         dispatch terminals                  1991 completed
                                                             by June 30, 1993
                   (b)   engineering studies     Borrower    started by
                         for automation storage              December 15,
                         and dispatch plants                 1991 completed
                                                             by June 30, 1993
Part C of          (a)   engineering studies     Borrower    started by
the Project              for the improvement                 December 15,
                         of energy efficiency                1991 completed
                         and pollution control               by December 31,
                         (air and effluents)                 1993
                   (b)   assessment of the       Borrower    started by
                         potential environ-                  December 15,
                         mental impact related               1991 completed
                         to the carrying out                 by December 31,
                         of the activities                   1992
                         referred to in Parts A
                         and B of the Project
                   (c)   preparation of a        SC          started by
                         manual for environ-                 December 15,
                         mental management                   1991 completed
                                                             by December 31,
                                                             1992
Parts D and              (a)   setting up of an        SC    started by
E of the                 hydrocarbon promotion               December 15, 1991
Project                  unit                                1991 completed
                                                             by June 30, 1994
                   (b)   setting up of an        Borrower    started by
                         exploration data        and SC      December 15,
                         bank                                1991 completed
                                                             by June 30, 1994
                   (c)   improvement of          Borrower    started by
                         economic data system                December 15,
                         for the management of               1991 completed
                         flow of funds, tax                  by June 30, 1993
                         payment and stock
                         markets
Page  10
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning March 15, 1997
      through   March 15, 2008                  1,165,000
On September 15, 2008                           1,205,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
Page  11
More than eleven years but not                  0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the  Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
ependitures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  12
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by  notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
