Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3416 AR 
(Hydrocarbon Engineering Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 12, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3416 AR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 12, 1992, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and YPF Sociedad Anonima (the Borrower), having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this 
Agreement;
(C)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Guarantor and 
the Borrower part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
will be onlent to the Guarantor on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Page  2
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as are set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A (iii), C (ii) and E of the Project, through SC, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices and the implementation schedule set forth in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A (iii), C (ii) and E of 
the Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose selection, qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
(b)
The Guarantor shall cooperate fully with such consultants in the 
performance of their services for Parts A (iii), C (ii) and E of the Project and make 
available to them all information relevant to such Parts of the Project.
(c)
The Guarantor shall cause such consultants promptly to furnish to the 
Bank copies of the documents prepared by them for the Project, including reports and 
drafts thereof, plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs, 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d)
With respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations 
and other conclusions contained in the documents referred to in the preceding 
paragraph:
Page  3
(i)
during the carrying out of Parts A (iii), C (ii) and E of the 
Project, the Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time 
exchange views on said recommendations and conclusions; and
(ii)
upon completion of Parts A (iii), C (ii) and E of the Project, the 
Guarantor shall consult with the Bank on the recommendations and 
conclusions relating thereto and, in agreement with the Bank, 
shall initiate the implementation of a program to strengthen the 
Guarantor's capabilities in promoting: (i) the sales of the 
underground storage facilities; and (ii) the production and 
exploration of hydrocarbon, and in overseeing the application of 
acceptable environmental guidelines, in the light of such 
recommendations and conclusions.
(e)
The Guarantor shall cause the consultant or consultants carrying out Part 
A (iii) of the Project to procure the works necessary for such carrying out under 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, such procedures to be included in the conditions 
of employment for such consultant or consultants.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, without limitation to its obligations under 
Article IX of the General Conditions, not later than June 30 of each year, beginning 
in 1992, exchange views with the Bank and the Borrower on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of Parts A (iii), C (ii) and E of the Project, including the performance 
targets referred to in the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all action satisfactory to the Bank 
necessary to ensure the recovery, from private investors, of all costs incurred by the 
Guarantor in the carrying out of Part A (iii) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A (iii), C 
(ii) and E of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Guarantor responsible 
for carrying out such Parts of the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts (including the separate accounts 
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) above) referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures under Category (2) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
Page  4
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall charge and collect from the Borrower a 
guarantee fee of one-eighth of one percent (0.80%) per annum on the equivalent in 
dollars of the principal amount of the Loan allocated to Category (1) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, from time to time 
outstanding, such equivalent to be calculated at the exchange rates between dollars 
and the several currencies disbursed by the Bank prevailing on the date of each 
disbursement from the Loan Account.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Economy, Public Works and Services of the 
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economia, Obras
   y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Ministerio Economia
121952
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ /Daniel Marx
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  5
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
