 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14846

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/23/2015

               Country: Africa
             Project ID: P117652                                                   Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Central African              Project Costs (US$M):                      14.9                15.06
                         Backbone - Apl2
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      14.09                15.06
      Sector Board:        Global                     Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Information/Communi
                           cations Technology
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 01/20/2011
                                                                Closing Date:              12/31/2014        12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Telecommunications (60%); General industry and trade sector (20%); General information
                           and communications sector (20%)
          Theme(s):        Regional integration (50%); Infrastructure services for private sector development (40%);
                           Regulation and competition policy (10%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Peter Nigel Freeman    Christopher David          IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 6) and in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD, page 3) was:

"to contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network services and to reduce their
prices in the Recipient 's territory."



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

This project focused on Sao Tome Principe (hereafter referred to as STP) was part of the Central Africa Backbone
(CAB) Regional Program. The program aimed at providing Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
broadband connectivity to all the capital cities and the main secondary cities in Central Africa. The program was
structured as a horizontal (additional countries could join the program) and a vertical (individual countries in the
program could choose from a variety of eligible project activities) regional program loan.

The project in STP was the second phase of the regional program. The first phase of the program (CAB 1A) was
focused on Cameroon, the Central African Republic (CAR) and Chad. Cameroon decided to withdraw participation
from the project and the second phase of the project (CAB 1B) focused only on CAR and Chad. The project involving
CAR and Chad never really became effective for reasons such as: (i) delays associated with redesign of the project to
accommodate the two countries.(ii) delays associated with Chad's unwillingness to sign the financing agreements as
negotiated. (iii) despite extensions, three out of the six effectiveness conditions were not met. The Bank decided that
no further extensions would be granted, and a formal legal notification was sent on December 17, 2012, to both Chad
and CAR in which both grants and credits were declared cancelled due to the failure to meet the effectiveness
conditions of their respective financing agreements (ICR Review: Africa Central African Backbone: Apl ib). According
to the information provided by the team, the third, fourth and fifth operations of the CAB regional program are ongoing
in the Republic of Congo, Gabon and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

Component One: Enabling Environment : (estimated cost at appraisal US$1.15 million, actual cost at closure US$1.42
million). This component aimed at creating an enabling environment for the development of the ICT sector in STP.
Activities included technical assistance and capacity building: (i) for legal and regulatory reform (ii) for developing the
sector through Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangements. (iii) for launching a second mobile telecommunications
operator for providing fixed and mobile services. (iv) for environmental studies and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
support.

Component Two: Connectivity (estimated cost at appraisal US$13,25 million, actual cost at closure US$13.10
million), This component planned to finance STP's contribution for participating in the Africa Coast to Europe Optical
Fiber Submarine Cable (ACE) project on an 'open access basis" through PPP arrangements. The ACE was an optical
fiber cable- submarine cable system connecting South Africa to Europe, and this cable could potentially connect about
23 small countries, which were often bypassed by submarine cable consortia on account of their small size (ICR, page
1). The "open access basis" meant that all ACE consortium members would have unfettered access to ICT
infrastructure or services under similar terms and conditions (ICR, page 4).

The other activities in this component included, leveraging private sector investment in the telecommunications sector
and associated investments, such as setting up of an Internet Exchange Points(IXP's). The ICR (page 4) states that
the IXP's enable Internet Service Providers to keep locally generated and received Internet traffic within the country
or region of origin, as opposed to carrying this traffic on international routes and that they are usually implemented as
a complementary activity to the activity of improving internet connectivity.

Component Three: Project Management (appraisal estimate US$0.5 million, actual cost US$0.55 million). This
component supported project management (in the areas of human resource management, financial and procurement
management, M&E, internal and external audits, communications expertise and financing costs associated with
operating expenses and equipment).

Although the components remained essentially unchanged, there were some changes. The activity pertaining to the
setting up of the IXP was cancelled following the Mid Term Review on February 2, 2013 as it was no longer regarded
as a country priority. The ICR (page 4) notes that the number of websites in STP was low and the IXP were useful
only when there were enough local servers, localized Internet Service Providers and traffic to be routed locally. Funds
from this component were diverted to other initiatives which were deemed more pertinent to the country (such as
financing a study of options for providing connectivity to the Principe island and providing internet connectivity to all
secondary schools).


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: (appraisal estimate: US14.90 million: actual cost US$15.06 million). The ICR (page 24) notes that the
actual project cost was higher than appraised due to exchange rate changes during the project cycle (ICR, page 24).

Project Financing: The original approved IDA Credit was US$14.90 million. At closure, US$15.42 million was
disbursed. In addition there was a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$5.00 million (ICR, page 5). At
closure, US$ 15.06 million of the IDA credit was disbursed and the PPF was fully disbursed.

Borrower Contribution : None was planned at appraisal. However, for participating in the consortium, the government
was to pay a membership of US$25.00 million out of the total of US$700.00 million. Approximately 52% of this was
financed by the government through the project and the balance (48%) was financed by Portugal Telecom and
Companhia Sao Tomense de Telecomunicacoes (CST) as private sector partners (ICR, page 9).

Dates: There was one level 2 restructuring on February 4, 2012, and this resulted in a reallocation of funds within
categories. There were two project categories aimed at paying to the ACE consortium: Payments to the consortium
(component two) and Project Preparation Advance. The ICR (page 4) notes that after these payments to the
consortium was made, some funds remained in the two categories and at the Borrower's request, these funds were
used for meeting the operational costs associated with component one activities.
The project closed as per schedule on 12/31/2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High:

The project development objective was highly relevant to the country strategy. STP with just over 190,000 inhabitants
is one of the smallest economies in Africa, with a per capita income below the average for Sub-Saharan Africa, and at
the appraisal stage, STP's insularity from global markets was exacerbated by the poor quality of ICT services in the
country. Fixed line density was just about 5%, mobile telephone penetration stood at about 62% and Internet
penetration was just about 0.7%, and although mobile coverage reached 70% population, it covered less than 30
percent of the territory of the archipelago. Moreover, STP had some of the highest satellite prices in the world (with
average satellite prices ranging between US$4,000 to US$5,000 /Mbps/month as compared US$100 in Morocco and
Australia and to as low as US$10 in Europe). High connectivity prices translated into high prices for international calls
and Internet cost and these were higher in STP even when compared to other countries in the region. At the appraisal
stage, it was important for the country to open the mobile telecommunication sector to competition and improve the
provision of international telecommunication bandwidth capacity in the country through alternative technical means
and attract new investors and telecommunication operators in the ICT sector. The PDO was consistent with the
government strategy for the sector which aimed at assessing global and regional markets , improving communication
capacity and affordability of international communication for reducing STP's insularity from global markets.

The project development objective was highly relevant in the regional context. At the appraisal stage, the viable
option, as compared to the other options, for providing international connectivity to countries in Central Africa was
through connecting to the Africa Coast to Europe (ACE) project. The ACE project connecting South Africa to Europe
could potentially provide connectivity to 23 countries along the route. A comparative analysis of various connectivity
options and the costs associated with those options, indicated that in the absence of alternative submarine cable
projects or satellite projects in the near future, providing international connectivity through the ACE project was the
most attractive option for countries in Central Africa.

The project development outcome was relevant to the Bank strategy for STP. At the appraisal stage, the Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility Program (PRGF) approved in March 2009 broadly aimed at supporting policies for
macroeconomic stability. The current Second National Poverty Reduction Strategy (NPRS-II) for the 2012-2016
period more specifically identified the need for providing the entire population with ICT services and identified the
need for alleviating the high costs associated with ICT services. The specific Telecom objectives and strategies set in
NPRS identified the need for: (1) implementing reform of the telecommunication sector to maximize employment
opportunities and improve effectiveness and efficiency. Under the policy measures the NPRS included:(i)
development of universal services. (ii) providing a legal and regulatory framework to ensure the promotion of
investment in the sector and (iii) development of new services provided by the sector.

At the appraisal stage, the World Bank Group's Regional Integration Assistance Strategy for Africa (RIAS) identified
advances in ICT as one of the three emerging positive trends in the 21st century for Africa. The regional strategy
highlighted the role of the Central Africa Backbone program for the regional connectivity objective (ICR, page 2).

The project development objective continues to be highly relevant to the Bank strategy for STP. The first pillar of the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the 2014-2018 period aimed at supporting macroeconomic stability and
National competitiveness through among other things, improving regional broadband connectivity.



b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial:

The statement of the Project Development Objective and the causal links between the activities supported by the
project and the attainment of the development objective is clear. And the intended outcomes were measurable.

Component one activities aimed at providing technical assistance for the legal and regulatory reform of the ICT sector,
developing PPP arrangements in the sector and launching a second mobile telecommunications sector can be
expected to contribute to creating a conducive environment for development of the ICT sector. Component two
activities aimed at improving connectivity can be expected to contribute to providing for a cost-effective access to
communication infrastructure. The combination of these two activities can be expected to contribute to the project
development objective of increasing geographical reach and usage of broadband network services and reduce their
prices. The project as applied to STP can be expected to contribute to the regional program objective of improving
connectivity in the Central Africa region.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The two objectives of the project were: (i) To contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional
broadband network services. (ii) To reduce their prices their prices in the Recipient's territory.

(i) To contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network services .

Outputs: (ICR, pages 26-28).

    Technical assistance was provided to improve access to ICT service in rural areas and to structure PPP
     investments as targeted. The ICR (page 26) reports that three projects were structured for PPP investments
     (Internet connection to secondary schools, establishing tele centers in under served areas and ICT devices for
     secondary schools).
    The ICT strategy Plan was prepared as targeted. The ICR (page 27) notes that the government had approved the
     strategy, although it had not been adopted at closure.
    Technical assistance was provided for building capacity within the Central Regulation Agency to develop
     economic cost calculations and updating of the Universal Service Fund legal foundations. as targeted.
    Environmental studies and Monitoring and Evaluation studies were completed as targeted.
    Study of options to improve connectivity of Principe Island was completed as targeted.
    Technical assistance for the mid term evaluation of the project, for monitoring and evaluation and project
     implementation units training, and for project coordination was provided, as targeted.

Outcomes:

    International internet bandwidth - measuring the volume of international traffic - increased to 4624 Bits per
     second per person at closure, as compared to the target of 500 Bits.
    Since the commercial launch of the Africa Coast to Europe (ACE) project in February 2013, installed bandwidth
     capacity grew consistently, from 50Mb prior to the launch to 300 Mb and 456 Mb by June 2013 and November
     2014 respectively. At project closure in December 2014, installed bandwidth capacity in STP was 1,085 Mb.
    The volume of national traffic, measured as people with access to internet services, increased to 17.9% at project
     closure, as compared to the target of 1.8%. The ICR notes that this indicator was underestimated as the rates
     collected included only the rates for fixed connections and omitted the rates for mobile broadband.
    Access to Internet services (number of subscribers per 100 people) increased to 17.9% by project closure as
     compared to the target of 1.8%.
    Access to telephone services (fixed mainlines plus cellular phones) increased to 87% by project closure as
     compared to the target of 78%. Access to cellular phones (cellular phones per 100 people) increased to 83% as
     compared to the target of 77%.
    100% of the localities had access to broadband Internet as targeted, and all public secondary schools had access
     to the Internet at the project closure stage.
    138,098 people benefited from the project at closure as compared to the target of 134,300. Of these 50.5% were
     female beneficiaries.


Rated: High. All outcomes were either realized or exceeded.

(ii) To reduce their prices in the Recipient 's territory.

Outputs:

    Technical assistance was provided for modernizing and harmonizing the legal and regulatory framework and for
     building capacity in the General Regulation Agency (AGER) for establishing of interconnection tariffs between
     different operators, as targeted. The Government published the Interconnection Decree which set the legal basis
     for introducing competition in the telecommunications sector. The bill aimed at modification of the Telecom
     sector was approved mid 2014, although the bill was had not yet been adopted at project closure.
    Tendering of a second global license was completed as targeted and in May 2013, the second license was
     awarded introducing competition in the telecommunication sector for the first time in the country.
    Technical audits of the ACE Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) was completed as targeted. The ICR (page 5) notes
     that the SPV was designed which aimed at holding the government's participation in ACE, channeling the
     contribution of the different parties to the consortium and for enabling access to ACE capacity at national level.
    The negotiations for the ACE Submarine cable was completed in November 2011 and ACE submarine cable
     became commercially effective in May 2013. The ICR (page 28) notes that as part of the package for the license
     of the second telecom operator (UNITEL), the government fully divested in the Special Purpose Vehicle and
     transferred it to UNITEL, keeping only a golden share to ensure that country's interests are protected.
    With the entry of the second operator, 650 jobs were created in 2014.

Outcomes:

    Average wholesale price for providing EL capacity dropped to US$9,000 at the baseline to US$2,500 at project
     closure. This was as compared to the target of US$4,500.
    Retail price of internet services at closure was around US$52 (40 euros per month) as compared to US$852 (640
     euros/ per month) at the baseline and as compared to the target of US$340 per month.
    With the entry of the second operator (ACE), the existing telecom operator (CST) started offering more affordable
     services to the population such as low consumption packages with cheaper retail prices at the closure stage.

Rated: Substantial. While it is difficult to determine the extent to which the introduction of competition in the telecom
market contributed to lower retail prices for providing Internet access, it is reasonable to assume that the entry of the
second operator made a significant contribution to lowering the retail prices for internet prices to consumers and for
providing incentives for the existing telecom operator to offer more affordable services to the population.

5. Efficiency:

Substantial.

An analysis conducted at appraisal included a comparison of costs associated with connection through the Africa
Coast to Europe (ACE) optical fiber cable and costs associated with other available and potential alternatives for
international connectivity. The analysis concluded that although the up front costs of joining ACE were higher, joining
ACE had the overall cost advantage, given its associated long term cost saving and higher bandwidth.

The Financial Rate of Return (FIRR) was conducted at appraisal and at closure. The FIRR was estimated at 19% at
appraisal. The FIRR conducted at the closure stage, using the same methodology but with current data, indicated a
FIRR of 19%.The ICR (page 17) notes that although the financial analysis looked at revenues from both the existing
single Telecom Operator (CST) and an expected second operator in the market, the financial analysis did not include
the full effect of the second operator's investment, as the introduction of the second operator still remained uncertain,
Awarding a second license to the second operator resulted in additional revenue of US$8 million to the government's
treasury account.

The project with IDA support leveraged private funds (including US$12 million from CST and fees collected from the
second operator.



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      19%                                     89%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      19%                                     87%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project development objectives are highly relevant to the priorities of the country and the World Bank Group's
strategy for STP. The relevance of design was rated Substantial. Efficacy of the objectives was rated as Substantial
as most of the outcomes were realized or surpassed and it is reasonable to conclude that the project made a
significant contribution to reducing retail prices of Internet access. Efficiency was rated as Substantial. A FIRR was
calculated at closure, the same as at appraisal. The project leveraged private funds and there were no cost overruns.
 a. Outcome Rating: Highly Satisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The risk to development outcome is rated as negligible to low in view of the following: While the operational
arrangements under PPP contractual agreements can be expected to contribute to the sustainability of the
operational arrangements, the open access principles embedded in the STP- Cabo's structural documents guarantee
that ACE consortium members would have open unfettered access to services under similar terms and conditions and
the divestment of the government in the single telecom sector and yet retaining a golden share would ensure that it
perform its role in safeguarding the country's interests.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The project preparation team was flexible and adapted to circumstances as evidenced by the following: The
project was prepared on an accelerated pace in less than four months for meeting ACE's deadlines and thereby
enable STC to gain access to international connectivity by joining the ACE. (For STP to become a consortium
member of the cable agreement, it was mandatory for CST to sign the Construction and Maintenance Agreement
by June 5, 2010). Despite this accelerated pace of preparation, quality at entry was not compromised, as the
Bank at the same time was also simultaneously helping Sierra Leone and Liberia to join ACE and had already
done the preparatory work associated with comparing the option of joining ACE with other options and had
ascertained that the option of joining the ACE as the most favorable option for the three countries. The preparation
team also demonstrated flexibility by mobilizing two Project Preparation Advances (PPA), one of which larger than
standard at the time of appraisal for meeting the tight deadlines. (ACE membership fee was due before project
approval and the first installment system was due on July 23, 2010. In order to meet these initial payments, the
Government had requested the Bank for a PPA advance of US$5 million. This larger than usual PPA was
approved after a waiver to go beyond the PPA ceiling of US$3 million was approved by the Bank's Managing
Director. The accelerated pace of the process was also aided by the Bank's decision to deem STP's participation
as largely a non procurable activity which was not subject to Bank procurement guidelines (88% of the project
funds went towards this activity).

The project preparation incorporated lessons from an ongoing Bank financed project in Burundi (Regional
Communications Infrastructure Project) which entailed setting a PPP to build a national backbone network.
Experience under this project had underscored the need for a solid financial, legal and transactions specific
expertise to implement the PPP arrangement. In view of the low capacity of the institutions involved in project
implementation, the design included extensive technical assistance for designing PPP arrangements and other
technical activities under the project.

Several risks were identified at appraisal and the overall risk of the project was rated as Medium. Appropriate risk
mitigation measures were incorporated in project design. The agency in charge of implementing the project was
already implementing another World Bank financed project (discussed in section 9b).

Financial and procurement arrangements and environmental and social safeguard issues were adequately
addressed at the appraisal stage. (discussed in section 11).

M&E design and the key outcome indicators for monitoring project performance were appropriate (discussed in
section 10).


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

In total, seven ISR's were filed, implying two supervision missions per year, and the supervision of the project also
benefited from the presence of the task team leader in the field at key milestones of the project. The ICR (page
20) notes that there was close supervision of the project, both during and between mission and the Bank and the
governments worked seamlessly to address the needs.
The supervision team demonstrated flexibility and adapted to meeting the changing priorities of the government
and the sector stakeholders. For instance, following the Mid Term Review in June 2013, a workshop was carried
to identify ICT priority projects to be financed with: (i) the remaining project funds. (ii) funds that the Government
obtained from the second operator license and which it was committed to reinvest in the ICT sector. Following the
workshop, the funds that the government received from the second operator was used for connecting all
secondary schools to the Internet and for purchasing computing devices for secondary schools. The supervision
team provided technical assistance to support the government in structuring the tenders for telecenters and
computing devices for secondary schools.
 .
There were no safeguards issues during the implementation phase (discussed in section 11).




   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The government was highly committed to the project all through the project execution phase and throughout the
important phases of project (such as negotiations and launch of the second operator), the government was quick
to react and demonstrated ability to take actions to meet the circumstances (such as requesting the Bank for a
PPF advance for paying the membership fee and the first installment for meeting the ACE deadline).

The government commitment was also demonstrated by: (i) its decision to sell its 24.5% participation in the then
existing single telecom operator, keeping only a golden share that enables it to guarantee open access principles
and safeguard the country's interests (ICR, page 9). (ii) its decision to use the funds that the Government obtained
from the second operator license for promoting the ICT sector in the country.

The specific government agencies, such as the General Regulation Agency (AGER) and National Institute of
Innovation and Learning (INIC) demonstrated leadership by providing inputs to governments and by , participating
in negotiations regarding the setup of STP - Cabo

Although successive governments and presidents showed commitment to the project, there were delays in
approval of documents in the second half of the project implementation phase.



   Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Agencia Fiduciaria de Administracao de Projecto (AFAP) was the implementing agency. The agency had
experience in managing Bank financed projects including a Bank financed education project (ICR, page 7).
The agency ensured compliance with covenants, safeguards and fiduciary aspects.

The low technical capacity of the implementing agency led to delays in finalizing bidding documents and launching
tenders.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:
a. M&E Design:

The key outcome indicators for this project were the same as the outcome indicators for the regional program The
results framework is clear and the four key outcome indicators (volume of international communication traffic, volume
of national communication traffic, average price of international communications and number of project beneficiaries)
were measurable.

The proxies used for measuring the outcomes (volume of international traffic through International Communication
bandwidth per person, volume of national traffic measured through Internet subscribers per 100 inhabitants and total
active fixed and mobile subscribers per 100 inhabitants) and average price of international communications through
measuring the average monthly price of international capacity link from the capital city to Europe) were appropriate.

b. M&E Implementation:

The implementing agency within the Ministry of Finance and International Cooperation (MoFIC) was responsible for
collecting the relevant data during the implementation of the project. The (ICR, page 11) notes that the team was able
to collect data on indicators on a semi annual basis, but there were difficulties in obtaining the data from the
incumbent operator, but these issues got resolved. The information provided in the ICR on M&E implementation is
brief and provides very few details.

c. M&E Utilization:

At project closing, data on internet penetration rates were underestimated along the project cycle because mobile
broadband technologies were not added to the number of fixed connections (ICR, page 11). The information provided
in the ICR is very brief, although the team leader clarified that information on Internet penetration rates continues to be
collected to date.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as Category B for Environmental Assessment Purposes. Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) were triggered.

Environmental safeguards : A draft Environmental and Social Management framework that was consistent with the
national laws and any applicable treaty concerning international waters was prepared at the appraisal stage (PAD,
page 13). An Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and an Abbreviated Action Plan (ARAP) was
published on September 2011, and there were no problems experienced during the project execution period.(ICR,
page 22).

Involuntary Resettlement . A Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared in case the project may require
land acquisition and Resettlement at the appraisal stage (PAD, page 13). The due compensation payments for
involuntary resettlement were deemed to be satisfactory during the project execution period. (ICR, page 12).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management : At project start up, a Financial Management (FM) assessment was conducted to determine
whether the implementing agency had adequate financial management arrangements. The FM arrangements of this
project was to use the existing financial management framework put in place for an ongoing World Bank financed
project and these arrangements met the bank's requirements for financial management (PAD, page 11).

The ICR(page 12) reports that the audit reports were submitted in a timely fashion and from the second half of the
project, the implementing agency made use of e disbursements. The conversion to e disbursements contributed to
cost savings with regard to mail and transaction costs.

The task team leader clarified that all project audits were external and unqualified, with the exception of the 2012
audit, which was qualified. However, the issue related to the qualification was minor and had been resolved by the
time the final audit report was delivered.

Procurement: The implementing agency at the appraisal stage had a qualified Procurement Officer and Project
Coordinator, and was also managing two other Bank funded projects. The ICR (page 12) notes that 88% of project
funds went towards non procurable activities and therefore not subject to Bank procurement guidelines, and agency's
performance in the 12% of project funds was deemed to be satisfactory.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

The project had two unintended positive impacts through the preparation of the options study for connecting Principe
Island and the connection of all public secondary schools with high speed Internet.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Highly Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR ( page 22) draws the following lessons from the experience of preparing and implementing this project.

(!) The World Bank is well positioned to facilitate the financing and implementation of regional projects. This is
particularly so when it receives financing requests from several countries involved in that project and there is no
regional instrument supporting individual countries.
(2) Developing infrastructure through PPP arrangement is useful for empowering the private sector which has the
technical expertise while governments can retain a strong governance role.
(3) In ICT projects focused on the development of the infrastructure supply side, it would useful to incorporate
demand side components such as connecting the schools to the Internet.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is for the most part, well written. It reports both outputs and outcomes of the project and its assessment of
the project is evidence based.
The ICR could however have provided more details on M&E implementation and utilization and Bank and Borrower
performance. One minor shortcoming in the ICR is that, the Borrower ICR is a valuable attachment to the ICR.
Although the ICR (page 23) does provide a translation of some of the main points of the Borrower's ICR, the ICR
would have had more widespread use had the Annex 7 been translated in English.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
