                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank



                                                            Report No: ICR00003141



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-H6420)



                                         ON A

                                        GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.8 MILLION
                           (US$ 14.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE

                                         FOR A

                  CENTRAL AFRICAN BACKBONE PROGRAM (APL2)



                                      June 17, 2015




Transport and ICT Global Practice
Africa Regional Integration
Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 12, 2014)


                       Currency Unit    =   São Tomé and Príncipe Dobras (STD)
                           US$ 1.00     =   19,669.55 STD
                        US$ 0.69022     =   SDR 1


                                FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1   –    December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACE      Africa Coast to Europe Optical Fiber Submarine Cable
AFAP     Agência Fiduciária de Administração de Projecto (Fiduciary Agency for Project
         Administration)
AfDB     African Development Bank
AGER     General Regulation Agency
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
ARAP     Abbreviated Action Plan
AU       African Union
CAB      Central Africa Backbone
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEMAC    Declaration of the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa
CST      Companhia São Tomense de Telecomunicações
DFI      Development Financial Institutions
DO       Development Objective
ESMF     Environment and Social Management Framework
EQG      Equatorial Guinea
FM       Financial Management
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEEDR    Energy & Extractives Global Practice
GTIDR    Transport and ICT Global Practice
GoSTP    Government of São Tomé and Príncipe
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IDA      International Development Association
INIC     National Institute of Innovation and Knowledge
IRR      Internal Return Rate
ISR      Implementation Status and Results
IXP      Internet Exchange Points
Mbps     Megabits per second
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIGOP    Guarantees Group
MoPWNR   Minister of Public Works and Natural Resource
MTR      Mid-term Review
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
NPRS     National Poverty Reduction Strategy
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PPA      Project Preparation Advance
PPP      Public Private Partnership
QAG      Quality Assessment Group
QEA      Quality at Entry
QSA      Quality of Supervision
RFP      Request for Proposals
RIAS     Regional Integration Assistance Strategy for Africa
SARL     Sociedade Anónima de Responsabilidade Limitada
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SPV      Special Purpose Vehicle
STP      São Tomé and Príncipe
TA       Technical Assistance
USD      United States Dollar
USF      Universal Service Fund
XDR      Special Drawing Rights
WAs      Withdrawal Applications
WARCIP   West Africa Regional Connectivity Infrastructure Program
WB       World Bank
WBG      World Bank Group


                        Vice President: Makhtar Diop
          Regional Integration Director: Colin Bruce
                      Country Director: Gregor Binkert
                        Senior Director Pierre Guislain
                     Practice Manager: Randeep Sudan
                 Project Team Leader: Isabel Neto
                  ICR Primary Author: Eva Clemente Miranda
                                            COUNTRY
                                       São Tomé and Príncipe




                                               CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................... 1
   1.1 Context at Appraisal.................................................................................... 1
   1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators ........ 2
   1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
   Indicators, and reasons/justification .................................................................. 3
   1.4 Main Beneficiaries, ..................................................................................... 3
   1.5 Original Components .................................................................................. 3
   1.6 Revised Components................................................................................... 4
   1.7 Other significant changes ............................................................................ 4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................... 4
   2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry ....................................... 4
   2.2 Implementation ........................................................................................... 8
   2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and
   Utilization........................................................................................................ 11
   2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase .................................................... 12
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................ 13
   3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ............................. 13
   3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives .................................... 15
   3.3 Efficiency .................................................................................................. 17
   3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ................................................... 18
   3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts ................................ 18
   3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder
   Workshops ...................................................................................................... 19
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................. 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners . 23


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................ 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ....................................................................... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ....................................................... 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes... 38
Annex 5. International Connectivity Wholesale prices Benchmark Analysis .... 40
Annex 6. Borrower's comments on Draft ICR ................................................... 42
Annex 7. Borrower’s ICR ................................................................................... 45
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Central African
Country:                Africa                  Project Name:
                                                                          Backbone - APL2
Project ID:             P117652                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H6420
ICR Date:               06/10/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          STP
Original Total
                        XDR 0.00M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 9.80M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 9.80M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Agência Fiduciária de Administração de Projecto (AFAP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/21/2010     Effectiveness:             04/22/2011       07/06/2011
Appraisal:            10/15/2010     Restructuring(s):                           02/04/2014
Approval:             01/20/2011     Mid-term Review:           02/28/2013       06/14/2013
                                     Closing:                                    12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                             None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                    20                  20
General information and communications sector                        20                  20
Telecommunications                                                   60                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development               40                  40
Regional integration                                                 50                  50
Regulation and competition policy                                    10                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                        Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Colin Bruce                         Yusupha B. Crookes
Practice
                           Randeep Sudan                       Philippe Dongier
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Maria Isabel A. S. Neto             Maria Isabel A. S. Neto
ICR Team Leader:           Maria Isabel A. S. Neto
ICR Primary Author:        Eva Clemente Miranda


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the proposed project is consistent with the PDO for the CAB
Program: To contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network
services and reduce their prices in the territory of São Tomé and Príncipe.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                International internet bandwidth: This indicator measures the volume of
Indicator 1 :
                international traffic. Measured in Bits per second per person (bits/sec/person).
Value
                51 Bits per second per
quantitative or                             500                                4624
                person (bits/sec/person)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                    01/21/2011                         12/31/2014
                % achievement: 1,018%
Comments
                Tot. use of International Internet bandwidth grew from 50MBS before cable to
(incl. %
                over 4,500MBS. As of Nov 14, the allocated capacity within international STP
achievement)
                cable is 4,500Mbs, and installed 775Mbs.
                Access to internet services (number of subscribers per 100 people): This
Indicator 2 :
                indicator measures the volume of national traffic. Measured in percentage (%).
Value
quantitative or 0.7                         1.8                                17.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                    01/21/2011                         12/31/2014
                % achievement: 1,564%
Comments
                A review of this indicator conducted at project closing showed that, along the
(incl. %
                course of the project, rates collected only include fixed connections (DSL) and
achievement)
                omitted mobile broadband (3G and 4G). This indicator was underestimated.
                Access to telephone services (fixed mainlines plus cellular phones per 100
Indicator 3 :
                people). Measured in percentage (%).
Value
quantitative or 67%                         78%                                87%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                    01/21/2011                         12/31/2014
                % achieved:182%
Comments        Arrival of the sub cable and telecom competitor in market boosted telecom
(incl. %        sector by lowering prices and increasing network coverage. Fixed mainlines plus
achievement) cellular phones per 100 people increased beyond appraisal target- growth
                expected.
                Access to telephone services (cellular phones per 100 people). Measured in
Indicator 4 :
                percentage (%).
Value
quantitative or 63 %                        77%                                83%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                    01/21/2011                         12/31/2014
Comments
                %achievement: 143%
(incl. %
achievement)    Access to mobile services has met target penetration rates: 75% of STP pop has
                mobile phone. Again, the arrival of the sub cable and the entrance of a telecom
                competitor boosted telecom sector by lowering prices and increasing coverage
                %achievement: 143%
                Access to mobile services has met target penetration rates: 75% of STP pop has
Indicator 5 :
                mobile phone. Again, the arrival of the sub cable and the entrance of a telecom
                competitor boosted telecom sector by lowering prices and increasing coverage
Value
quantitative or US$9,000                  US$4,500                           US$2,500
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                  01/21/2011                         12/31/2014
                %achievement:144%
Comments
                Cost of international connectivity dropped, allowing STP access. Average
(incl. %
                monthly price of wholesale international E1 capacity link from capital city to
achievement)
                Europe, measured in monthly US$ dropped far below appraisal target of $4500
                Number of project direct beneficiaries (percentage of female). No#. of active
Indicator 6 : fixed mobile subscribers (internet subscribers not included).Assumes total
                constant pop at 170000 (%female on proratabasis using current figure:50.5%)
Value
quantitative or 113,900 (50.5%)           134,300 (50.5%)                    138,098 (50.5%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                  01/21/2011                         12/31/2014
Comments        % achievement: 119%
(incl. %        Female beneficiaries have been calculated on a pro-rata basis using the figure:
achievement) 50.5%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                           Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                            Target Years
                Impact on telecom sector of World Bank technical assistance. Rate
Indicator 1 :   competitiveness of the telecom sector as a result of the project technical
                assistance. Composite score: 1-low impact to 5 – high impact)
Value
(quantitative   0 (zero)                   4                                   5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                   01/21/2011                          12/31/2014
                %achievement:125%
Comments
                1st time STP connected to reliable affordable international connectivity, bringing
(incl. %
                competition and private sector participation in the telecom sector, plus legal
achievement)
                framework updates and stronger regulator, has shown highly relevant impact
                Mobile cellular price of a 3 minute local call (peak): This indicator measures the
                cost of a three minute peak time local call in the same mobile network. This
Indicator 2 :
                indicator measures the cost of a three minute peak time local call in the same
                mobile network.
Value
                US$ 0.42                   US$ 0.20                            US$ 0.28
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                    01/21/2011                          12/31/2014
Comments
                % achievement: 64%
(incl. %
                This indicator was reviewed at project closing.
achievement)
                Number of operators and service providers with access to the Regional
Indicator 3 : infrastructure deployed (ACE cable). (% of total # of active operators and ISPs
                buying capacity).
Value
                                            100% (Cable has                     100% (Cable has
(quantitative   0%
                                            landed)                             landed)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                    01/21/2011                          12/31/2014
                %achieved:100%
Comments
                Unfettered access for operators to regional infra. Project's technical assistance
(incl. %
                ensured open access to cable for future operators & affordable access to citizens.
achievement)
                2nd Global License GoSTP to UNITEL satisfactory access to regional infra.
                Retail price of internet services (per Mbps monthly (US$)). This indicator
Indicator 4 : measures the progress of unfettered access for all operators to regional
                infrastructure.
Value
                US$852/ month (640                                              US$ 52 (40
(quantitative                               US$340/ month
                euros/month)                                                    euros/month)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                    01/21/2011                          12/31/2014
                % achievement: 156%
Comments
                Internet access prices fell drastically until reaching US$52 monthly subscription
(incl. %
                per Mbit per second. This price highly surpassed target price reduction at
achievement)
                appraisal. Competition in the telecom market (2nd op) showed price impact.
                Increased access to ICT services: Percentage of localities with broadband
Indicator 5 :
                Internet access (256Kbps)
Value
(quantitative   56%                         100%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2010                    01/21/2011                          12/31/2013
Comments
                % achievement: 100%
(incl. %
                This indicator was revised at project closing.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     08/27/2011           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        9.61
  2     04/07/2012           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      14.07
  3     12/01/2012           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               14.35
  4     05/23/2013           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      14.57
  5     01/19/2014        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                      14.88
  6     06/27/2014        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                      15.12
  7   12/12/2014     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 15.24


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Level two restructuring package
                                                     related to reallocation of funds
                                                     within categories was approved.
                                                     There were two project
                                                     categories containing the funds
                                                     for paying the ACE consortium:
                                                     payments to the ACE
                                                     consortium (Category 2) and
                                                     refund of Preparation Advance
                                                     (Category 3). After all these
                                                     payments had been done, no
                                                     additional disbursements were
 02/04/2014               HS      S          14.99
                                                     needed in these two categories,
                                                     yet some funds remained in
                                                     them. The Borrower requested
                                                     that those funds be transferred
                                                     to Category 1 of the project,
                                                     pertaining to ‘Goods, works,
                                                     consultants’ services and
                                                     Operational Costs for the
                                                     Project. These funds were used
                                                     for implementation of the
                                                     activities already planned under
                                                     that category.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      São Tomé and Príncipe (STP) with just over 190,000 inhabitants, is one of the smallest
economies in Africa. In 2010, income per capita was US$1,140 (GNI, Atlas method, current US$), below
the Sub-Saharan Africa average. While economic performance had improved and the real GDP growth
had increased to an average 5% over the period 2001-2007, approximately 62%1 of its population of
166,000 was poor and 15% lived in extreme poverty2. The country ranked 131 out of 182 countries in the
2009 UNDP Human Development Index. The small archipelago had consolidated democracy since 1990
but was still characterized by frequent turnover of governments.

2.       In 2010, poor access to international telecommunications capacity, and over-dependence on
costly satellite technologies were important constraints for STP, limiting growth opportunities. Moreover,
the lack of access to low price and high quality telecommunications services was identified as a factor
hindering STP’s attractiveness for international investors and as an obstacle to creating jobs, expand
production of goods, services, and trade competitively with the rest of the world. As a country dependent
on satellite communications with average satellite prices between US$4,000-5,000/Mbps/month STP was
ill-placed to compete in the global economy. This situation added to STP’s insularity and remoteness
from international markets. The country’s small size and systematic constraints in human and institutional
capacity made it even more difficult for STP to achieve sustainable growth and poverty reduction.

3.       In 2010, STP had some of the highest prices in the world for international calls and Internet costs.
Fixed line teledensity was about 5%, mobile telephone penetration stood at about 62%, and Internet
penetration was about 0.7%. Mobile coverage reached 70% of the population but less than 30% of the
territory. Another sector issue identified at appraisal was the lack of competition, given that the country
had a single Telecom operator: CST (Companhia São Tomense de Telecomunicações). The Government
of São Tomé and Príncipe (GoSTP) had attempted to introduce competition in the mobile
telecommunications market in 2007, but had not been successful.

4.       STP was among a handful of countries in the region which was not connected to the global
network of broadband optical fiber infrastructure. Small states in the region were often by-passed by
submarine cable consortia, because their markets were not attractive enough for investment. For purposes
of international connectivity a viable option for West African countries was to connect to Africa Coast to
Europe (ACE) optical fiber cable, a submarine cable system anticipated to be approximately 17,000 km
long. ACE aimed to connect South Africa to Europe, potentially connecting up to 23 countries (see figure
1), either directly for coastal countries or indirectly through terrestrial links. Other submarine cables
existed at the time (e.g. SAT3, SAFE, WACS), but with closed consortia or monopolistic models, and
none of them connected STP.




1
    Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty lines (% of population), 2009. World Development Indicators.
2   Poverty gap at $1.25 a day (PPP) (%), 2010. World Development Indicators.




                                                                 1
5.       In a context of no other opportunities
available for STP to connect to another submarine                                                                cable
for many years to come, in February 2010 the                                                                     GoSTP
requested the World Bank Group (WBG) financial                                                                   support
to participate in ACE, after the Governments of                                                                  Sierra
Leone first, and then Liberia had sent similar                                                                   requests
for WB support to join ACE. The Bank performed                                                                   detailed
due diligence on this possible investment upfront,
comparing it with other options that might have                                                                  become
available for accessing high speed international
connectivity in these three countries, and confirmed                                                             that
ACE was the most favorable option (see Annex                                                                     3.1).

6.       Africa’s regional program was well-positioned to        Figure 1 Africa Coast to Europe (ACE) Optical
assist these three countries make feasible this unique                    Fiber Submarine Cable Map
opportunity to connect ACE. It would not have been
possible to provide support for STP to participate in the ACE cable outside the framework of Regional
Integration projects. A response to STP request was conceived within the Central African Backbone
(CAB) Program. Support for other countries was provided under other regional programs: West Africa
Regional Connectivity Infrastructure Program (WARCIP) was prepared at that time and approved in
January 2011 to support Sierra Leone and Liberia participation on ACE consortium. Additional countries
later asked for support to join ACE consortium, namely Guinea Conakry, Burkina Faso, and Gambia
(approved in June 2011).

7.      CAB is a WBG regional instrument aimed at catalyzing private sector investment to improve
connectivity in Central Africa. The CAB program was the best suited instrument to support STP’s need to
join ACE. To maximize flexibility, client-responsiveness in a multi-country environment and the specific
context of each country (existing infrastructure or policy environment), CAB’s design comprised a menu
of options which individual Governments were to choose from. For the purpose of using the Regional
IDA envelope, regional connectivity under CAB financing was deemed regional in nature and, thus
qualified for Regional IDA envelope.

8.       The CAB Program fitted well with WBG’s 2004 Regional Integration Assistance Strategy for
Africa (RIAS). The Bank’s RIAS identified advances in ICT as one of the three emerging positive trends
in the 21st Century for Africa, and highlighted CAB’s role for the regional connectivity objective. The
WB had been involved in the CAB Program design since 2005 in the context of a multiple development
partners’ effort3, and was well placed to contribute to the development of regional connectivity in Africa.

9.       The São Tomé e Príncipe project (CAB2 STP) was also consistent with the government strategy,
particularly with the goals of accessing regional and global markets to unlock additional growth
opportunities. Improved communications capacity, and the ability to access information and affordability
of international communications was deemed to be fundamental for the development of STP and for
reducing isolation and insularity.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators


3
  The Declaration of the CEMAC heads of state adopted in May 2007 called explicitly for WBG financial support for the
implementation of the CAB program –the overall program formulated with other key stakeholders, DFIs, and the African Union
(AU).



                                                             2
10.     The project objective, as spelled out in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Financial
Agreement, was to contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network
services and reduce their prices in São Tomé and Príncipe. To achieve this objective the project focused
on investments linked to fostering open and cost-effective access to communications infrastructure. The
main development outcomes included: (i) the development of infrastructure with a secondary impact on
the market through reducing the cost of broadband services and making them more accessible; and (ii)
opening up the telecommunications market to competition, improving policies and regulatory framework.
These objectives were aligned with both the CAB Program overall objectives as well as the country
strategy’s objectives.

11.     The CAB2 STP project followed the same outcome indicators as the overall CAB program.
Result indicators were also defined consistently with the ICT Core Sector Indicators as of December
2009. Based on the project’s framework, key outcome indicators included:
a) Volume of international traffic
    i. International Communications (Internet, Telecoms, and Data) bandwidth per person
b) Volume of national traffic using 2 proxies:
    i. Internet subscribers per 100 inhabitants
   ii. Total teledensity (active fixed and mobile subscribers per 100 inhabitants)
c) Average price of international communications using the proxy:
    i. Average monthly price of international capacity link (E1 or 2Mbts) to Europe
d) Project Beneficiaries
    i. Number of project direct beneficiaries (% female)

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

12.    PDO and Key indicators remained valid and relevant throughout the entire project
implementation span.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

13.     The project was designed to target the population as a whole in STP by increasing the availability
and affordability of telecommunications services. Project direct beneficiaries included people who may be
connected to the internet or more generally to communications network in STP (including
telecommunication services and internet users, schools, hospitals, banks, corporations, government and
public administrations). Whereas indirect beneficiaries were defined as all of the country’s population,
since increased communications capabilities at affordable rates for some of the population may eventually
have externalities for all.

1.5 Original Components

14.     The project had three main components, as follows:

a) Component 1 – Enabling environment ($0.9 million IDA financing): technical assistance for legal and
   regulatory reform, to develop public private partnership (PPP) arrangements for the infrastructure to
   be developed and to launch a second mobile telecommunications operator, environmental studies and
   M&E support.
b) Component 2 – Connectivity ($13.3 million IDA financing, with additional $11.9 million financed by
   the private sector): Financing for STP’s contribution for participating in the ACE cable on an open



                                                    3
     access4 basis and on the basis of PPPs, leveraging private sector investment and associated
     investments such as the setup of an Internet Exchange Point (IXP).

c) Component 3 – Project Management ($0.5million IDA financing) – This component consisted of
   support to project finance management, such as human resources, procurement, financial
   management, M&E, internal and external audit, and communications expertise, operating expenses
   and equipment.

15.     While the generic CAB Program included the possibility of eGovernment related components,
given the scarce IDA resources for STP, the Bank and Government team decided that the project would
focus on connectivity elements only, which were the key priority at the time5.

1.6 Revised Components

16.      The components as designed at appraisal remained unchanged until project closing date. There
were however some adaptations at the margin: the project did not support the setup of an IXP6 as
originally foreseen. During the Midterm Review (MTR) it was decided that the implementation of the
IXP was no longer a priority: the number of websites hosted in STP was low, and IXP would have had a
limited impact7. Other initiatives became more relevant towards achieving the PDO along project
implementation and were scaled up. This included a study for options for Príncipe island connectivity,
and support to connect all secondary schools to Internet, activities which were supported through the
project. Given the full alignment with project objectives, the limited budget (less than 2% of project
funds), and the straightforward nature of this activity, it was judged no formal restructuring was needed in
order to make these changes, and the decision was recorded and approved through the ISRs and briefings
to management.

1.7 Other significant changes

17.      On February 4th 2012, a level two restructuring package related to reallocation of funds within
categories was approved. There were two project categories containing the funds for paying the ACE
consortium: payments to the ACE consortium (Category 2) and refund of Preparation Advance (Category
3). After all these payments had been done, no additional disbursements were needed in these two
categories, yet some funds remained in them. The Borrower requested that those funds be transferred to
Category 1 of the project, pertaining to ‘Goods, works, consultants’ services and Operational Costs for the
Project. These funds were used for implementation of the activities already planned under that category.
The details of project proceeds reallocated can be found in Annex 1 section c.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

4
  The concept of ‘Open Access’ is broadly defined as an equal opportunity for operators to have unfettered access to given
infrastructures or services, under similar terms and conditions.
5
  The initial IDA envelope for the project at PCN stage was US$10 million, and it had to be increased to US$15 million as the
costs escalated when Baharicom, who had indicated its willingness to provide a philanthropic investment of US$ 5 million,
stepped out. This meant that there was limited room, at preparation, to include any additional activities.
6
  IXP enable Internet Service Providers to keep locally-generated and received Internet traffic within its country or region of
origin, as opposed to carrying this traffic on international routes. IXP are thus usually implemented as complement of improved
Internet connectivity.
7 IXPs are most useful when there are local servers, localized Internet Service Providers, and traffic to be routed locally, which is
not yet the case for STP


                                                                  4
18.      Project preparation was characterized by its extraordinarily accelerated pace. In less than four
months, the team provided an extremely fast response to country request to prepare the project. This was
due to the need to meet ACE’s own calendar, and thus, to avoid STP losing the opportunity to join the
ACE and gaining access to international connectivity. For STP to become a consortium member of the
cable agreement, it was imperative that CST8 signed a Construction and Maintenance Agreement
(C&MA) by June 5, 2010. This required highly complex negotiations between the Government and CST
and Portugal Telecom (PT) that had to be concluded by that date. The team assisted GoSTP on those
negotiations that resulted in STP's successful participation in the ACE consortium, while ensuring the
principles of open access to cable capacity for future operators.

19.      WB mobilized rapidly two Project Preparation Advances (PPAs), one of which larger than
standard at the time of preparation, which was necessary to meet very tight deadlines. Through its
signature of the CM&A, CST and the government were committing to comply with a very concrete
payment schedule defined in advance and with high late fees. Instalment payments for the ACE
membership fee were due before project approval with a first installment payment on July 23, 2010. In
order to meet these initial payments, the GoSTP had requested the WB for a PPA advance of $5million,
which needed to be approved by the CM&A signature date9. This larger-than-usual PPA was approved
after a waiver to go beyond the PPA ceiling at the time of $3 million was obtained from the Bank’s
Managing Director 10. (An initial US$0.7 million PPA for normal preparation activities had already been
obtained in March 2010). Without Regional IDA support mobilized in less than four months Sierra
Leone, Liberia and STP would have missed the opportunity to connect to ACE network. This required
close collaboration between WB staff to ensure consistency with the Bank’s investment lending policies,
while finding solutions to participation in the ACE PPP consortium. The Bank’s decision to ascertain
funds for STP’s participation in ACE as non-procurable activities made possible to accelerate payments
(more information in section 2.4).

20.       Project appraisal took place in October 2010 and WBG Board approved it in January, 2011.
During this time, negotiations focused on defining the specific PPP arrangements. GoSTP and CST were
negotiating the specific format and terms around STP-Cabo SARL, a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)
designed to hold STP's participation in ACE, channeling the different parties’ contributions into the
consortium, and enabling access to ACE capacity at national level. Structuring the country’s participation
as an open SPV ensured that future operators in STP would be able to access cable capacity with similar
conditions. A full-fledge technical assistance was provided to the GoSTP along a second round of
intensive negotiations with the private sector partner (CST/Portugal Telecom) that ended with: (i)
incorporation of STP-Cabo SARL; (ii) full substitution of CST by STP-Cabo SARL (see footnote 7); and
(iii) the transfer CST’s signatory rights to the SPV (see final structure of STP’s participation in ACE
consortium in figure 2).




8
  C&MA was initially signed by CST on behalf of STP, as only entities with a Telecom license, such as operators, had the
capacity to subscribe to the C&MA. In parallel CST committed to be later substituted by SPV to be structured following open
access principles (see below).
9 The PPAs had covered the two initial payments to the consortium, due on July 23, 2010 ($3.75m) and on September 23 rd, 2010

($1.25m), and they were in consistent with OP. 8.10 which allowed for financing limited initial implementation activities.
10
     Similar waivers were obtained for Liberia and Sierra Leone under the proposed WARCIP.



                                                               5
                                 Figure 2 Structure of STP’s participation in ACE consortium11

21.      These complex negotiations took longer than initially expected. The transfer of the corresponding
rights to STP-Cabo was an effectiveness condition for the grant. Since the available funds for ACE under
the PPA had been fully utilized by September 2010, the challenge for GoSTP and the team was to ensure
project effectiveness in time for the payment of an ACE installment due in March 2011. After one
extension the project became effective on July 6, 2011, and STP-Cabo SARL was able to honor its
obligations towards ACE, without major delay penalties.

22.      The accelerated preparation of the project did not compromise quality. The background analysis
carried out to prepare the project was sound and helped the GoSTP identify the ACE as the best option for
low cost international connectivity. STP's decision to join ACE resulted from an analytical process
comparing available and potential connectivity options (see analysis at Annex 3). The economic and
financial analysis confirmed that full membership in ACE (if accompanied by the right access and market
structure to ensure competitive pricing), held the potential to provide the lowest cost international access
to a broad range of citizens in STP over time. The due diligence further confirmed that the decision
process was in line with the principles of efficiency, transparency and adherence to good practice in the
industry. Analysis of other possible options for improving international connectivity clearly showed that
connecting to other cables would ultimately result in a less compelling business case than connection
through ACE 12 (see also Annex 3).




11
   The figure does not represent flow of funds, but rather the financing structure. All financing contributions from the
government and CST into the STP ACE SPV (called STP-Cabo, SARL) are made in the form of a long-term shareholder loan.
WB funding flow was channeled through a direct payment to the ACE consortium on behalf of STP-Cabo. CST secured the
remaining funds needed (i.e. approximately $5million in additions to funds provided by the two main shareholders) to complete
the $18.75million using other complementary instruments, notably debt and own funds/cash flow.
12
   The option of expanding STP’s existing limited international connectivity by increased use of satellites was also analyzed, but
the significantly lower bandwidth costs that will be obtained over time through ACE compensated for the higher investment and
maintenance cost.


                                                                6
23.     Project design reflected lessons learnt and built upon previous similar projects implemented
within the region:
a) Experience had shown that infrastructure built without a suitable enabling environment can limit
   impact on prices and access.
b) Given the experience in other closed-club submarine cables elsewhere13, designing the project based
   on open access principles ensured a very important multiplying effect so that necessary investment to
   complement private funds for the cable could bring the maximum value to the country. To
   complement the ACE investment per se, project preparation included TA to ensure the best open
   access structure to cable capacity (through incorporation of STP-Cabo described above).
c) At the time, experience showed the importance of client ownership for an efficient implementation of
   project activities. Hence, project design included the intent, interest and priorities of beneficiaries and
   stakeholders to ensure project ownership. And, it was based on GoSTP´s specific request for Bank´s
   support which provided confirmation on Government commitment to the project.
d) Given the low capacity and lack of experience in PPPs of the institutions involved in project
   implementation, and the evidence that significant capacity is needed for negotiations with the private
   sector to establish PPP arrangements, project design incorporated extensive TA.

24.      In terms of project institutional design, adequacy of available expertise for project
implementation arrangements was ensured at appraisal phase by selecting AFAP (Agência Fiduciária de
Administraçao de Projecto) within the Ministry of Planning and Finance, as the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). AFAP was the only executing agency in the country with experience in managing Bank-financed
projects. In 2010, AFAP was successfully implementing another WB education project14. Rather than
recruiting a new team, and after conducting Financial Management (FM) and Procurement assessments, it
was decided that AFAP would serve as the implementing agency for CAB2, and that technical staff with
sector specific expertise would be hired to strengthen the team with telecom expertise.

25.      The project envisioned the creation of a Steering Committee to (i) be in charge of overall
operative guidance during implementation; (ii) have fiduciary and governance oversight of the main
disbursement areas for CAB2 STP; (iii) be responsible for approving annual work plans and budgets, and
any changes in allocation of budgets between institutions; and (iv) be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the M&E framework. It was structured to be chaired by the Minister of Finance and
International Cooperation and consist of high level authorities including representatives of the Prime
Minister’s office, the Minister of Public Works and Natural Resource, and the telecom regulator named
General Regulatory Agency (AGER). The meetings of the Steering Committee were scheduled to be held
quarterly or exceptionally if so required.




13
   The monopoly control of access to national and regional fiber infrastructure limits the developmental impact of national and
regional infrastructure. Under a monopoly or limited competition regime for international fiber traffic, incumbents have
traditionally operated a high-margin, low-volume business, with inflated prices charged to domestic consumers as a result. Open,
non-discriminatory and pro-competitive access to infrastructure helps to secure lower prices and the highest level of voice and
data traffic. In addition, allowing more players into the market where these do not exist help ensure better conditions to end-
users.
14
  STP Education for All - Fast Track Initiative Project Implementation Unit and the implementation of the WB financed Social
Sector Support Project (PASS) (Credit No. 3902 STP and Grant No. H088 STP)



                                                               7
26.      The assessment of risks and mitigation actions the team prepared at appraisal have proved to be
adequate. Despite having only few components and activities, the overall project risks were rated as
medium due to the need for complex negotiations during the preparation phase. The team assessed ACE
consortium structure, as being led by major industry players, consistent with international good practices.
Given the experience of key consortium members in designing, commissioning and operating submarine
cables, the implementation risk was estimated minimal. The following table summarizes the risks and
mitigation measured by the team at appraisal.

              Risk                     Mitigation Objective              Mitigation measure proposed at PAD
 Project PPP structure where        Minimize the risk of less       - PPP documents had to be in place at first
 private sector partners            favorable negotiations          payment to ACE (March 2011)
 (CST) are required to              with private sector and the     - Option right agreement signed by CST/PT
 finance US$11.9 to                 risk of private sector not      provided the government with the right to
 complement IDA funds               honoring its financial          substitute CST if required.
                                    contributions                   - Incorporation of SPV shareholder agreement
                                                                    required for project effectiveness
 Political changes                  Minimize impact on              In view of elections at the time of preparation,
                                    negotiation and                 the team requested the government the
                                    liberalization processes        preparation of a letter of sector policy. The
                                                                    new government also formalized its
                                                                    commitment to reforms in a letter submitted to
                                                                    IDA on November 2010.
 Implementing Agency                Minimize weak                   PPA included the provision of extensive TA to
 (including FM and PR risks)        implementing capacity           AFAP and AGER

27.     To sum up, the CAB2 featured comprehensive preparation and design of activities that surpassed
usual complexity. The high level of efforts put in place for project preparation and design ensured
subsequent effective project implementation.

2.2 Implementation

28.      After effectiveness, and since the most difficult issues (such as negotiations to establish STP-
Cabo) had been finalized, project implementation proceeded generally well and smoothly, and all
activities were successfully completed by the project closing date.

29.      The implementation of the largest component under the project – the contribution to the ACE
cable membership fee, which represented 88% of the funds – was simple after the PPP negotiations had
been completed, in particular because, as explained above, STP’s participation in ACE were deemed as
non-procurable activities. The ACE cable15 was initiated by Orange and administered by a consortium of
17 operators linking Europe to the West and Southern Coast of Africa with advanced high-speed
broadband fiber optic technology. Its roll-out was divided in two phases: phase 1 comprised 3 segments in
service (France-Senegal, Senegal-Côte d´Ivoire, Côte d´Ivoire-STP) connecting 1616 countries; and phase
2 planned to extend the cable from STP to South Africa (named segment 4). As mentioned above, the
technical execution and project management for the ACE cable was left to the ACE private sector
consortium and its supplier, Alcatel, and the project advanced generally according to schedule, with only
minor delays.



15
     www.ace-submarinecable.com
1614 countries connected in the coast; France, Portugal, Canary Island (Spain), Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea, Sierra
Leone, Liberia, Côte d´Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea Equatorial, Gabon, STP; 2 landlocked countries: Mali and Niger.



                                                               8
30.      The actual submarine cable project was managed and implemented by the private sector, through
the international consortium: the STP party fully participated in the consortium meetings, but technical
issues and implementation were dealt with by the consortium, which greatly simplified and accelerated
project execution. In order to participate in the consortium, STP paid a membership fee: overall, STP
contributed $25m out of the total US$700 million ACE cable investment, US$13.1m of which (52.4%)
have been financed by government, through the CAB2 project, with the remaining balance coming from
an important contribution by Portugal Telecom and CST as the private sector partners. As of January
2012, barely one year after project approval, 89.8% of the total grant amount had been disbursed.

31.      The ACE cable effectively arrived in STP in November 2011, the landing station in STP was
inaugurated in October 2012, and the cable was commercially launched in February 2013 after a period of
tests throughout the 16 countries connected by ACE. For the time being, only the north segment of ACE
has been developed. Once Segment 4 does, STP will not have to pay additional funds17.

32.      Under the enabling environment component, the project firstly focused on TA for the introduction
of competition in the telecom market through the tendering of a second global license. Although the
process for the second license was initiated shortly after effectiveness, it took some time to materialize.
After some delays, in May 2013, the government successfully awarded a second telecommunications
global license to UNITEL International Holdings. The commercial launch took place in July 2014 a
couple of months after the initial planned date18. As part of the package for the second license the
government sold its 24.5% participation in STP-Cabo, thereby fully divesting, and keeping only a golden
share that enables it to guarantee open access principles and safeguard the country interests. The GoSTP
received US$8million from UNITEL: US$6.36 million for its shares in STP-Cabo, and $1.62million for
the second global license. STP-Cabo held its first board meeting including the second operator, UNITEL,
in April 2014. Additionally, the project financed an initial technical audit of STP-Cabo aimed to provide a
transparent technical review of landing station conditions at the time of the Government’s ownership
transition to a new operator.

33.       To complement these two main project achievements (i.e. the cable and the introduction of
competition), other activities focused on further strengthening of the enabling environment by
modernizing and harmonizing ICT sector framework. Three main activities were implemented: (i) support
to the regulator to update the legal and regulatory framework, (ii) an analysis on options available for
Príncipe Island to improve its connectivity following arrival of the ACE cable, and (iii) structuring for
additional PPP projects that would be financed with a part of proceeds the GoSTP received after
divestiture.

34.      The project assisted the government and AGER to develop and build capacity on legal and
regulatory amendments needed to reflect the new sector reality (submarine cable and competition).
Firstly, an ICT Sector Strategy for STP was prepared in 2012 under the project after consultations with a
wide variety of sector stakeholders, including civil society. However, at the time of preparation of this
ICR its adoption by the Council of Ministers was still pending. Secondly, regulatory and economic tools

17 ACE design foresaw for STP a full landing station given the end and start of segments, however the consortium recognized the
country’s small size and allowed STP to pay US$25million (the cost of a single landing station) instead of the standard full
landing station cost of US$40 million.
18
   It could be discussed whether launching competition before introduction of the cable would have been better. The connectivity
and enabling environment components were initiated in parallel. However, given that the cable was following its accelerated
schedule (imposed by ACE consortium) the connectivity component materialized earlier, and launching the second operator
license first was actually not an option. Even though competition was introduced after the cable, the cable was structured in a
way that already anticipated the introduction of new operators. In addition, given the intrinsic peculiarities of STP, it could be
argued that the market was more successful in attracting a second operator with the submarine cable in place. Previous attempts
to introduce competition has failed.


                                                                9
(cost models) were developed that resulted in the timely promulgation of a decree on interconnection
required for the second operator arrival at the market. Thirdly, modifications to Telecommunications Law
were prepared and approved by the Council of Ministers in April 2014. The promulgation of these
amendments had to wait for the new government after the October 2014 elections and is expected to
happen in 2015. Also, the assistance provided to AGER included the development of a new legal
instrument for regulating the Universal Service Fund (USF) reflecting international best practices.
Approval of the final text was dependent on the modifications to the Telecommunications Law mentioned
above being approved by Parliament (see immediately above).

35.      An options study was developed through the project to identify the best manner of upgrading the
existing connection with Príncipe. At the time, microwave link capacity between Sao Tomé and the island
of Principe had become fully saturated and there was an urgent need to upgrade the link in order to better
serve the population in that island so that it could best benefit from ACE cable. By the end of the project
both operators had started the deployment to upgrade the connection to Príncipe for higher capacity by
installing separate microwave links. As a result, the internal connectivity capacity between São Tomé and
the Príncipe Island is expected to increase twenty-fold, from 32Mbps to 600Mbps. In the medium to long
term the GoSTP may be able to pursue opportunities to develop the submarine connection to Principe.
While financially difficult to justify from a purely financial perspective, it may be possible to minimize
costs by piggy-backing on: (i) the return of the ACE boat to install Segment 4, and/or (ii) the Equatorial
Guinea (EQG) authorities’ plans to build submarine connection from Malabo to its island of Annabon,
located south of STP.

36.      During the project MTR in June 2013 Government, sector stakeholders and civil society
discussed prioritization of possible investment in the sector that could be structured on a PPP basis19. A
workshop was carried out to identify ICT priority projects to be financed with (i) remaining project
funds20, and (ii) funds that the Government obtained from the second operator’s license, and which it
committed to reinvest to promote ICTs in the country21. In order to best leverage the arrival of the
submarine cable in STP it was agreed that CAB2 project proceeds would be utilized to connect all
secondary schools in STP to the Internet, and that Government would consider using its own financing
both for the establishment of three community telecenters, and for purchasing basic computing devices
for secondary schools. By the project closing date in December 2014, all 27 secondary schools were
connected. TA was also provided to support GoSTP in structuring the tenders for telecenters and for
computing devices secondary schools that would be financed with its own funds, but the launching of the
tenders was pending at the time of ICR preparation.




19
   As explained above, during MTR it was decided that the implementation of the IXP estimated in US$50,000, was no longer a
priority for STP.
20
   Including project net gains generated from exchange rate between XDR and USD
21
   This commitment was captured in minutes of negotiation during preparation but it was decided not to include is as a legal
covenant for the GoSTP.


                                                             10
37.      As for implementation arrangements and in accordance to project design, the Steering Committee
met regularly as scheduled with some exceptions during the final stage of the project. Throughout
implementation, the Steering Committee contributed to the project by providing strategic guidance and
validating project steps. With the project in progress, it was decided that a representative of the National
Institute of Innovation and Knowledge (INIC) in charge of promoting ICTs for social and economic
development, would join the Steering Committee.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

38.      The PDO determined in the PAD illustrated adequately what the project was aiming at achieving:
to contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network services and reduce
their prices in São Tomé and Príncipe. The PDO indicators selected in the PAD provided quantitative
baseline and clear target indicators against which progress towards objectives were easily assessed:
 a) The international internet bandwidth quantified in Mbps is a proper measure for usage of regional
    broadband network. This indicator is easily measured by the SPV and operators for whom this is an
    important operating expense.
 b) The penetration rates of ICT services quantify the extension of access of broadband network
    proportionally to the size of the population. Since penetration rates don´t assess the geographic
    dimension, the M&E included a specific intermediate indicator to assess broadband coverage as
    percentage of localities with access to broadband. These are amongst the most common indicators
    closely monitored by regulators to assess the performance of the sector.
 c) The average price of wholesale international El capacity measures the affordability of international
    connectivity. This indicator is sometimes not publicly available for confidentiality reasons.
 d) The number of project beneficiaries measured the number of active fixed and mobile subscribers
    (internet subscribers not accounted to avoid double-counting) assuming a constant total population
    figure.

39.    In addition to wholesale prices, the evolution of affordability of Internet access at the retail level
was captured in the indicator “retail price of Internet services”.

40.      During project implementation, the team was able to collect indicators (on a semi-annual basis),
but usually with a 6 months delay, as there were often difficulties in obtaining the data from the
incumbent operator in a timely manner. These delays persisted until the project closing, despite follow-up
by AGER and the project team, but given that in the end the team was able to get the indicators, no
further action was proposed.

41.     At project closing some indicator figures were reviewed with special attention to Internet
penetration rates. This showed that Internet penetration rates were underestimated along project cycle
because mobile broadband technologies (e.g. 3G and 4G) were not added to the number of fixed
connections (i.e. DSL).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

42.      The project trigged two safeguards categories: social and environmental. An Environment and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) consistent with national law, any applicable treaty concerning
international waters, and OP 4.01, together with a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were published
on November 23rd, 2010. An Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and an Abbreviated
Action Plan (ARAP) published on September 2011 were implemented during the project with a constant
satisfactory rating. The due compensation payments for involuntary resettlement were successfully
completed in a timely manner.



                                                      11
43.      AFAP was the entity in charge of procurement and financial management throughout the project.
Financial statements audit reports were properly submitted in a timely fashion and accepted by the Bank;
and procurement and financial management evolved satisfactory throughout the project. From the second
half of the project, AFAP effectively made use of e-Disbursements. The conversion to e-Disbursements
contributed to more regular submission of Withdrawal Applications (WAs), and some cost-savings with
regards to mail and transaction costs. AFAP performed timely, regular and satisfactory submissions of
withdrawal applications; which were always fully paid without any deductions.

44.      Regarding procurement, 88% of project funds went towards non-procurable activities and
therefore were not subject to WB Procurement Guidelines. This is because payments to the ACE
consortium were deemed to be made for membership consortium fees (paid in different installments)
against a set of rights including the use of certain capacity at preferred rates and a share of ownership of
an indivisible cable infrastructures asset. The additional effort required to procure the activities linked to
the remaining 12% of project funds (i.e. $1.8m) was marginal. AFAP managed procurement in an
efficient and appropriate manner, and the team worked actively on correcting any shortcomings identified
during project execution.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

45.      The two main components executed with the project are fully working in place: international
connectivity through the submarine cable and the second licensed operator are managed by the private
sector. Operational arrangements and sustainability are ensured by having performing and quality
infrastructure, as well as adequate PPP contractual agreements in place: with a technically competent
private sector in charge of infrastructure operations, as well as informed authorities (regulator,
government), . There are no specific follow-up arrangements expected to be needed in the infrastructure
front.

46.      Regarding the cable, commercial and operational issues should be dealt with between the cable
shareholders (CST and UNITEL). Given the strategic importance of the cable to the country, Government
may at times be called to play a facilitating role should any issues emerge, and it keeps the gatekeeping
role of the open access principles through the golden share it holds in the cable vehicle22.

47.     As for the second operator, any issues are to be dealt with through AGER that has been mentored
to do so. Additional TA may be needed in the future as other issues arise.

48.     A few of the texts that have been prepared through the project still need to be formally adopted by
the government. Such is the case for the ICT Sector Strategy, and the modifications to Telecom Law
which will also set the legal framework to issue USF legal instruments. AFAP briefed the government
which took office in December 2014, as it will be responsible for approving these pending key telecom
regulation reforms.

49.       The opportunity to connect the Príncipe Island to the submarine cable has led the GoSTP to
explore options for the future. Initial contacts were undertaken by the authorities and by the Bank team to
facilitate the possibly of a joint project with EQG (see para. 35). Specific supplier proposals are currently
being considered use the return of the boat which may happen in 2015-2016 for segment 4 and leverage it
to connect Malabo-Principe-Sao Tome-Annabon. While this investment would be difficult to justify on
pure financial grounds, contributions could possibly be obtained by aggregating investment from the two


22
  At the time of preparation of this ICR there had been incidents of delays in payments from one of the operators to STP-Cabo
SARL.


                                                              12
operators, other investors like oil companies operating in the country's territory, and Government, for
example through the USF - no Bank funds have yet been requested for this purpose.

50.     Current ongoing Bank-funded education projects could provide opportunities to build on some of
the project successes. Contacts were established with the education team to ensure synergies between a
recently approved STP Quality Education for All Project (P146877, Credit IDA-H9030 and IDA-H9770).
This project includes support for connecting primary schools to Internet. This will complement the
connection of all secondary schools under CAB2 project, and provide a new landscape in the country with
all schools benefited from high-speed connection to Internet.

51.      The project has contributed to revamp the supply side of the ICT sector. Follow-up phases
focusing on the demand-side to help promote the absorption of STP installed capacity could be
considered to complement the work completed. Indeed, now that STP benefits from international
connectivity, there is an unprecedented opportunity for STP to increasingly harness the positive outcomes
related to ICTs. Follow-up activities could start with an assessment to identify main areas where ICTs
could have greater impact to improve economic growth, government efficiency, and social development.
Eventually, these activities could include: the setup of a Data Center, or the development of various
applications such as of an Electronic ID application, eGovernment Services, or other citizen engagement
and participatory platform initiatives, or application for using ICTs for education (especially given that
secondary schools are connected to Internet).

3. Assessment of Outcomes
52.     The CAB2 project has allowed the telecommunication sector to take a “giant step” forward in
STP. As further detailed in the section below, the arrival of high-speed international connectivity, first
time ever sector competition, update of the legal and regulatory framework, and regulatory capacity
building have allowed a strong and lasting development in the telecommunications sector to benefit STP
population.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of objectives
Rating: High

53.      CAB2 project objectives helped overcome STP’s lack of affordable connectivity and absence of
competition consistently with STP’s current National Poverty Reduction Strategy (NPRS-II). The NPRS-
II 2012-2016 seeks to provide the entire population with access to basic services, promoting access of
ICTs to alleviate high costs from small insular country. The specific Telecom objectives/strategies23 set in
STP’s NPRS refer to the implementation reform of the telecommunications sector to maximize
investment opportunities, and improve effectiveness and efficiency. Under its policy measures it includes
(i) the development of universal services, (ii) the definition of a sectorial legal and regulatory framework
to ensure the promotion of investments, and (iii) the development of new services provided by ICTs.




23
   NPRS Telecom specific objectives: to enable the public and private parties involved in the sector to deal with the technological
and economic risks of the telecommunications market; to provide incentives to the private sector to invest in the
telecommunications sector; to improve the reliability of the network and the level of national and international
telecommunications infrastructure; to reduce the cost of market prospecting and rates as a means of helping businesses grow; to
reduce the cost of international communications; to develop basic telecom services in rural areas; to develop the regulatory
capacity of the government in this sector.


                                                               13
54.     WB’s 10-year vision Regional Strategy for Africa shows CAB2´s high relevance as it places ICTs
as a key enabler to promote the region’s economic and social development. The competitiveness and
employment pillar, as well as the governance and public sector capacity strategy’s foundation, refer to the
immense potential of ICTs to provide innovative ways for transformation and sustained growth in Africa.

55.      WB´s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2014-2018 for STP aims to improve regional
broadband connectivity under the Supporting Macroeconomic Stability and National Competitiveness
pillar. Beyond this, the transformational cross-sector impact from improved connectivity would contribute
to other areas captured in the CPS, including but not limited to improved private sector capacity and
business environment, and skills development.

Relevance of Design
Rate: Substantial

56.     The project design (activities, components, policy areas) was relevant to the objectives:
 a)     The highest impact activities to be carried out were appropriately identified in CAB2 design, and
        no major shortcomings affected the achievement of their objectives.
 b)     In the policy area, the project provided regulatory TA as well as sector policy and regulatory
        capacity building in order to adapt to the new sector situation prompted with the arrival of ACE
        and competition.
 c)     Components were adequately designed to achieve project outcomes.

57.     The project’s M&E framework was overall of good quality:
 a)     Overall the PDO focused on outcomes for which the project could reasonably be held
        accountable. The objectives were clear, realistic and meaningful for the country, and were well
        defined with quantitative baseline and target indicators.
 b)     The outcome indicators properly reflected sector performance and captured progress to project
        objectives. The intermediate indicators were similarly relevant to project objectives, providing
        more detail on retail prices, network coverage, and telecom sector’s competitiveness as a result of
        project’s technical assistance.
 c)     Indicators were simple and most of them relied on usual market indicators which eased data
        collection. The causal chain between project funding and outcomes was quite straightforward,
        particularly given that the project financed STP’s participation in ACE and provided the TA to
        launch a second global telecom license.
 d)     Despite that in general broadband contribution to service penetration is difficult to assess, the link
        to regional network reach and usage outcome was clear.




                                                     14
Relevance of Implementation
Rating: High

58.      The Bank’s implementation assistance was responsive to project needs and adapted to changing
priorities (i.e. options for Principe’s connectivity).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: High

59.      The CAB2 project was completed by the original closing date as planned and substantially
achieved all its objectives including: access and use of regional broadband network with ACE, and reduce
of international and domestic telecom prices driven by the arrival of ACE and competition. Highly
relevant tangible outcomes have emerged from CAB2 project, and even greater impacts are expected in
the future. As better international connectivity continues to be absorbed, competition keeps stimulating
the telecom market, and the regulation reform effects further settle better sector conditions, project’s
achievement of development objectives will be largely surpassed in the mid/long-term.

     40,000                                                                 900


                                                                            800
                                                                                       Average monthly price of
     35,000
                                                                                       wholesale international E1 capacity
                                                                                       link from capital city to Europe
                                                                            700
     30,000                                                                            International internet bandwidth
                                                                            600
     25,000                                      Submarine cable
                                                 starts operations                     Internet subscribers
                                                                            500
     20,000
                                                                            400
                                                                                       Internet retail price/month
     15,000
                                                                            300

     10,000
                                                                            200


      5,000                                                                 100


         -                                                                  -
               2010        2011         2012          2013           2014

                       Figure 3. Submarine Cable Impact in STP on Internet prices and bandwidth

60.      Today STP has become one of the countries with the highest installed bandwidth capacity per
inhabitant (currently a total of 4,500Mbps) and faces a new era of opportunities. This can be directly
attributed to the entry of the ACE in operation. Since it was commercially launched in February 2013,
results have been increasingly visible: the use of capacity has grown from 50Mb before the cable to
300Mb in June 2013, 456Mb in December 2013, 775Mb in November 2014, to 1,085Mb at the end of the
project. The use has so far increased 15 times and it is expected that this can still increase 20 times in the
two years after the project. The international internet bandwidth measured as the volume of international
traffic per capita has grown remarkably to 4,600 Mbps.

61.      Immediately after the entry into service of the submarine cable, Internet access prices, both
wholesale and retail, started to fall. Before ACE, STP had to pay an average monthly cost of US$9,000
for international connectivity. With the arrival of the cable, this wholesale price dropped to US$2,500,
lower than expected. It could be argued that targets were not aggressive enough, they were set based on
expected demand (wholesale prices are linked to international traffic) which grew faster than forecasted.
Nevertheless, wholesale prices in STP fell 72% after ACE’s launch, which can be seen as significant
results, especially if compared to other cases such as in the east coast of Africa where, one year after the
arrival of the first fiber optic cable, prices fell 89% in Kenya, 64% in Madagascar, or 61% in Rwanda -


                                                             15
this is particularly true when considering that the market size in these countries is much larger than in
STP and also that the east coast of Africa benefitted early on from competition in the international market
with the arrival of alternative cables24. At the same time, there are other small island examples, like the
case of Tonga (with even fewer population than STP and a monopolistic telecom market) that
experienced a more consequent drop in wholesale prices of 87% in a similar period – this may be
explained by the different characteristics in these countries25 (see international wholesale price benchmark
analysis in Annex 5).

62.     As for retail costs, ever since ACE’s entry, CST commercial offers increased up to 15 times the
volume offered at the same price (a connection of 1Mb used to cost 315 Euros per month, currently 15Mb
cost 160 Euros per month with unlimited traffic). In order to make services more affordable to the larger
population, low consumption packages with cheaper prices are being offered which did not exist before.
For example, DSL offer for 25 Euros per month (increasing the traffic included in 50%, from 8GB to
12GB). This trend is expected to continue with much stronger results in terms of affordability for a
broader spectrum of the population26.

63.      The effective introduction of competition in the telecom market through the licensing of a second
operator is likely to have contributed to reduce retail prices, as it provided the incentives for CST to pass
on the lower wholesale prices to consumers, even before the arrival of the second carrier. When UNITEL
started its commercial activity, its tariff offering for 1GB of 3G mobile data was for 8 Euros a month and
2GB for 12 Euros per month. Just a few weeks after its launch, UNITEL had acquired more than 3,000
customers. Competition has brought a new dynamism and stimulus to the market, which have created
unexpected job opportunities. According to information provided by the two operators, around 650 jobs
(50 direct, and 600 indirect) have been created in 2014 alone27. Mobile retail tariffs were also reduce by
more than 30%, but not as much as initially expected (target ~ 52%)28.

64.      In regards to geographical coverage, the initial 56% percent of localities with access to broadband
Internet (256Kbps) has increased to reach 100% of the territory. Driven by the arrival of ACE and
competition, telecom operators have improved their internal backbone networks to provide connectivity
to broadband to all 6 districts and its 23 localities. Additionally, coverage and accessibility of Internet was
further improved by the connection of all public secondary schools in the country to the Internet.

65.      As a result, Internet penetration in STP has grown remarkably even higher than initially
forecasted. While in 2010, only 0.7% of the population had access to Internet services, as of December
2014, 18 per 100 people was subscribed to Internet services, and this trend is forecasted to continue
further after CAB2. Moreover, given that the submarine cable became operational on 2013, and
competition started in mid-2014 (both later than expected), it may be even too early to measure full


24
   The cables TEAMS and SEACOM landed in the East Coast of Africa in June 2009 and July 2009 respectively and the EASSy
cable launched commercial service in July 2010. Unfortunately there is no data available for other countries connected to ACE
(due to the Ebola crisis in Sierra Leone and Liberia). STP particularities (i.e. prior international connectivity by satellite, small
size, lack of submarine cable competition) make it difficult to perform a benchmark analysis for comparison purposes.
25
   Despite similarities between Tonga and STP, the difference on price drop may be explained by the fact that Tonga is an upper-
middle income country where tourism accounts for 10% of GDP.
26
   According to the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), broadband can be considered affordable when it is at or
below 5% of the average monthly income. The $52 monthly cost of Internet represents still a 45% of the average income per
capita.
27
   Data provided by CST and UNITEL
28
   Most of the impact from the connectivity component was on data and international traffic and local cost structures did not
change significantly. The impact on mobile prices was linked to the entrance of the second operator, which occurred at the last
stage of the project, later than expected – i.e., prices may still continue to come down.


                                                                 16
impact of these events. STP’s new context of international connectivity is seen as a fundamental
contribution to promote attractiveness for international investors29.

66.      The introduction of competition helped access to mobile services penetration rates surpass
targets: 83% of the population in STP has a cellular phone, a 20% increase since 2010. And mobile
cellular prices for voice calls have fallen 31%30 throughout project life. Beyond reductions in prices,
especially for Internet, competition has had a clearer effect on the availability and quality of services in
STP. Operators expanded and improved dramatically their marketing offerings and commercial network
throughout the country. STP citizens no longer need to travel to the capital to acquire neither phone and
Internet services, nor equipment (i.e. handsets and routers) as operators have opened new customer stores
and sales points in more remote areas (i.e. Trindade, Neves, Principe –see images below).




            Figure 4 Sample pictures of CST and UNITEL’s new sales points across STP, November 2014

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

67.     ACE constituted the most cost-effective option for STP to access high-capacity international
connectivity and savings in connectivity costs largely tangible. The analysis at appraisal included a
comparison of ACE with other alternatives for international connectivity, and concluded that ACE
represented the preferred option for STP given its associated long term cost savings and higher
bandwidth. (See also ACE long term cost savings and higher bandwidth compared to other options in
Annex 3).

68.      CAB2 investment in ACE has proved to have a significant rate of return. Based on the financial
model developed at appraisal of ACE in STP market, the estimated Internal Return Rate (IRR) was 19%.
A re-estimated IRR rate, updated with latest data available data and with a review of original projections
results in a 19% (see Financial Analysis at Annex 3). This rate as highly consistent with initial IRR rate
calculated indicates a faithful estimation at appraisal.

69.     Further, the project with IDA support leveraged private funds, not only the US$12 million from
CST, but also the fees collected from the second operator. While the financial analysis looked at revenues
from both CST and an expected second operator in the STP market, it did not include the full effect of
UNITEL´s investment, as at the time the conditions for introduction of the second operator were still
uncertain. The award of the second license to UNITEL and its purchase of GoSTP STP-Cabo’s shares
resulted in US$8 million paid into the STP’s Treasury account.

70.      Price reductions in Internet services have also originated significant consumer savings. Internet
subscribers have benefited from a drop in the monthly rates per Mbps paid to service providers (see
discussion on consumer savings in Annex 3). If assuming that the full extent of retail price reduction is
attributable to the project, it could be argued the cumulative consumer savings along the four years of

29
   According to IMF’s report, STP’s GDP current estimated growth of 4.5% is considered to be buoyed by higher foreign direct
investment.
30
   Measured as the cost for a 3 minute call during peak hours.



                                                             17
project for the entire subscription base for 1Mpbs are estimated close to US$88 million (US$67 since
ACE’s).

71.     ACE’s return rate calculations in the PAD were purely financial and did not consider an
Economic Return Rate (ERR). The impact of the incremental consumer surplus associated with ACE’s
expected effect on price reductions was not quantified in the PAD. If added to the financial return rates
(including UNITEL´s investment cash flow), the estimated ERRs is 73%.

72.      There were no cost overruns in this project, but rather savings, and the project has generated a
payment of US$8million for government through the sale of STP-Cabo shares and the second license. For
the small part of the project subject to procurement, AFAP optimized the use of resources, succeeding in
getting good value for the price of the contracts, during the procurement process and implementation of
activities.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

73.     Based on the above-mentioned factors, the overall outcome rating is highly satisfactory.
Connecting the country for the first time ever to reliable and affordable international connectivity,
bringing competition and private sector participation in the telecommunication sector, updating the legal
framework, and strengthening the regulatory authorities, was a highly relevant and successful
combination of activities, especially when considering STP’s previous insularity and isolation and
Africa’s potential to benefit from extended use of ICTs. The project contributed to substantial and
sustainable changes in the telecommunication sector, and the PDO indicators were largely surpassed:

a) Overall volume of international internet bandwidth measured as bit per second per person grew from
   51 in 2010 to 4,624 in 2014, largely surpassing the 500 set target.
b) Access to Internet services, grew up to 18 subscribers per 100 people, largely exceeding the 1.8%
   target. Access to cellular phones, met its target of 75 per 100 people.
c) Access to telephone services (fixed mainlines plus cellular phones per 100 people) increased from
   67% in 2010 to 79% in 2014, 3 p.p. above the pursued target.
d) Average monthly price of wholesale international E1 capacity link dropped from US$9,000 in 2010 to
   US$2,500, far below the US$6,000 target set at appraisal.
e) Number of project direct beneficiaries stood up close to 140,000 while the target was set at 134,300
   from 113,900 in 2010, out of which 50.5% constitute female beneficiaries.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

74.     CAB2 can further help STP address larger development challenges. STP can now start pursuing
outputs to improve economic growth, jobs, transparency, accountability, and social inclusion, which in
turn impact poverty reduction and sustainable development. STP can also harness benefits from ICTs in
terms of productivity throughout the economy since it also raises efficiency across sectors31 to ultimately
reduce poverty.

75.    The improvements in ICT sector in STP can allow Sao Tome´s women (and men) to access
markets in growing numbers by lowering the transaction costs associated with market work. Because time

31
  See i2010 (2006). But other complementary measures, such as firm organizational measures, may be needed to take full
advantage of the productivity enhancement potential of ICT (European Commission 2010).


                                                             18
and mobility constraints are more severe for women than men, women stand to benefit even more from
these improvements.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

76.      From an institutional standpoint, an important long-term impact of the project is the capacity built
in the multi-sector regulator. The project’s real-time and hands-on training provided to AGER in
preparation for unprecedented telecom market in the country has strengthened its capabilities to regulate
and monitor STP’s Telecom sector. The multi-sector regulator with no previous experience in handling a
competitive telecom sector with a submarine cable installed, learnt about economic cost model
calculations, regulations for open-access-based infrastructure, and establishment of interconnection tariffs
between different operators. Moreover, unintended positive externalities may arise from the knowledge
transfer that AGER could apply to the other sectors under its mandate to oversee (e.g. Energy and Water).

77.      AFAP has further strengthened its experience in WB fiduciary procedures, but also in managing
successfully sophisticated tenders to procure technology. This will be particularly useful as the unit sets
out to implement STP Quality Education for All Project approved in December 2013 and which foresees
similar tenders for procuring internet connectivity for primary schools.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

78.     The project had two unintended positive impacts through the preparation of the above-mentioned
options study for connecting Príncipe Island, and the connection of all public secondary schools to high-
speed Internet. Bringing Internet to secondary schools has the potential to have a high transformational
impact, and for example contribute to bridge the existing gap in skills development.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

79.      The arrival of the ACE cable and market competition are here to stay. These reforms will very
unlikely be reversed, and the changes introduced by the project are structural, and its impact is expected
to intensify with time. The open access principles embedded in the STP-Cabo structural documents
guarantee that future additional telecom operators access cable capacity.

80.     Over recent years, STP has been characterized by several changes in government, but this has
proven to pose limited thread to the achievement of the project development objectives. Even if some
approvals of legal documents prepared through the project are outstanding, there seems to be general
agreement and ownership of these texts by the various institutions involved. It is therefore hoped that the
texts will be approved without major delays.

81.     The lack of reliable energy supply may pose a risk to the well-functioning use of ICTs. A Bank-
financed energy project is currently being prepared which may address some of these risks.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance


                                                     19
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

82.      According to the Borrower and other stakeholders, and as evidenced by the project milestones,
the Bank team was able to provide a very timely and quick response to the government and to approve a
larger than normal and complex PPA in record timing. This allowed the country not to miss the
opportunity to be part of ACE submarine cable. This required developing innovative solutions under very
stringent time constraints, and a close collaboration between several Bank departments, both at technical
and regional management level.

83.      Bank facilitation with the ACE consortium at the regional level and on behalf of the several
countries involved also helped remove certain roadblocks and clear the way for negotiations at the
national level. The Bank’s value added also came from helping to put together a PPP-based management
arrangement, support for ICT sector policy, legal and regulatory reforms. The significant support
provided to GoSTP allowed negotiations to converge in a relatively timely way, allowing project
effectiveness and disbursements to resume without jeopardizing the country’s financial obligations
towards the ACE consortium.

84.     Project design at entry proved to be appropriate and successful; the project achieved its
development objective without the need to go through any major restructurings. The TA put in place for
project design, envisioning the outsourcing the infrastructure development to a private consortium with an
open access enabling environment and the introduction of competition, made project design prevail
throughout its implementation and ensured the project success and sustainability.

85.      Overall, submarine cable projects imply complexity at technical and financial levels. In this case,
given the country’s weak technical capacity, designing the project as a PPP where most of the work was
in practice outsourced to the international consortium greatly simplified project implementation and
allowed for timely implementation and quick disbursing.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

86.      The Bank team ensured very close supervision of the project, both during and between missions.
Frequency of supervision (on average two formal supervision missions per year, and TTL presence in the
field in key milestones of the project) was adequate as it was complemented by intensive support
provided from a distance. Issues and opportunities were identified in a timely manner, and the Bank and
the government teams’ worked seamlessly to address these. Progress of project implementation, and
discussions with government were documented through comprehensive and high quality aide memoires.
ISRs were filed on time, and included relevant information, but timely updating of M&E could have been
improved. An analysis of project documentation shows that the WB team responded adequately to project
demands. It did so by demonstrating adaptability, consulting project stakeholders for identifying evolving
priorities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

87.      The services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation and supported
effective implementation through appropriate supervision, with clear and outstanding results.

5.2 Borrower Performance


                                                     20
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

88.      The GoSTP was quick to identify the ACE unique opportunity and its relevance for the country,
and immediately reached out to the Bank to seek assistance. Throughout the most important phases of
project (namely negotiations and the launch of the second operator) government was generally very quick
to react and showed ability to take decisions under difficult conditions, supported by the TA provided
through the project.

89.      During implementation and despite low technical capacity in certain areas (technical and PPP),
Government support and commitment continued. Successive governments and Presidents from various
political quarters showed commitment and full support to the project, however in later years of
implementation there were some delays in approval of documents prepared through the project.

90.     Specific government agencies, such as AGER and INIC, played an important role. AGER
demonstrated leadership in implementation and provided sound technical inputs to government, although
sometimes with delays. It participated in negotiations regarding the setup of STP-Cabo and was the main
counterpart for all the legal and regulatory reform work. AGER was cooperative and demonstrated
willingness to bring the project to fruition, contributing to the discussions when needed. INIC made
substantial contribution in the latter part of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

91.      AFAP was responsible for project coordination and implementation, including Procurement,
Financial Management, M&E, Communications and Environmental Support. AFAP managed the project
in an efficient and proactive manner, ensuring that the various project and government stakeholders were
involved and informed as appropriate. Despite some delays, especially in the second half of the project,
project implementation advanced at a steady pace and objectives were met.

92.      Before CAB2, AFAP was already managing other Bank operations in different sectors (education
and health) in a satisfactory manner. CAB2, however, was quite a different project of sophisticated
technical nature. AFAP demonstrated flexibility in adapting to this new technical domain (telecom
infrastructure and regulation) supported by technical expertise when needed. Due to low technical
capabilities, AFAP often relied on the WB’s team advice. There were a few occasions where project
activities suffered minor delays in finalizing bidding documents and launching tenders.

93.      AFAP ensured compliance on safeguards and fiduciary aspects in a satisfactory manner. All
project covenants were complied with. Overall, reports and audits were submitted in a timely and efficient
fashion. AFAP remained adequately staffed along the project life with experienced financial and
procurement managers as well as an accountant. AFAP’s good understanding of project relevance and its
focus on the achievement of outcomes contributed to ensure solid project results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

94.      In light of the above, the overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory. The technical
and complex nature of the project and the corresponding low capacity of the client in this regard were
known in advance, and were mitigated by a more intensive supervision by the Bank. In the end, however,
this had limited impact on the project successful implementation and outcomes.


                                                     21
6. Lessons Learned

95.      A number of lessons emerge from the project implementation experience, being the following
most relevant:
a) The WB is well positioned to facilitate the financing and implementation of regional projects, in
    particular when it receives financing requests from several countries involved in that given project –
    in the absence of a regional instrument supporting individual countries may not even be feasible; in
    addition, the Bank’s negotiating strength on behalf of these countries is stronger, and transaction costs
    within the institution for any given country can be reduced32;
b) Developing infrastructure through PPPs helps empowering the private sector (who has the technical
    expertise) while government can retain a strong governance role. In complex and highly technical
    infrastructure deployments (like the case of a submarine cable), the private sector has better technical
    expertise and is better positioned to organize and roll out infrastructure investments. It is easier to
    work out PPP arrangements when initial infrastructure investment plans come from the private
    players. It may be easier to propose and implement PPP schemes when the sector is already working
    under private sector arrangements (i.e. in this case CST was already 51% privately-owned). While
    private sector can generally provide the bulk of the financing for the deployment of regional
    communications, public sector retains a key role to bridge the financing gap and especially to ensure
    that the enabling environment for open access to infrastructure is in place;
c) The Bank may want to consider expanding the use of models where items are considered as non-
    procurable (as was the case for 88% of this project, which has certainly contributed to the project
    success): In investment projects where private sector consortium models intervene, if a
    comprehensive analysis is carried out to ascertain the principles of efficiency and transparency,
    accepting industry-specific procurement processes and practices as valid may greatly accelerate
    project implementation, while still ensuring efficiency and transparency principles;
d) In ICT projects focused on the development of the infrastructure supply-side, it is beneficial to
    incorporate demand-side development components as well, like for instance connecting schools to the
    Internet as was the case of CAB2 project, or hospitals, and other government sites. In order to
    enhance adoption of installed connectivity capacity it is useful to envisage actions to stimulate
    demand so that the effects of improved connectivity reaches the local population faster.

96.     Another lessons learnt include:
a) When the implementation capacity of the borrower is limited, more effort/resources are needed to
    provide strong technical assistance and closer supervision. In small countries with limited project
    implementation experience, the selection of an existing PIU may prove to be a good decision, but
    capacity may need to be strengthened in particular areas where specific technical expertise is needed
    to ensure successful project implementation;
b) In the context of low capacity, it is preferable to keep project design simple, with few components
    and contracts. This can improve the chances of achieving the development objectives. A phased
    implementation, focusing on one component at once, can also help. The general recommendation is to
    begin implementation with policy framework, and market liberalization activities before embarking
    on PPPs for investment in connectivity infrastructure. However, when intrinsic conditions limit
    market attractiveness, sequencing activities reversely can contribute to successfully introduce
    competition (so that the availability of infrastructure enhances attractiveness of the sector). In such
    cases, the setup of the PPP vehicle instruments following open access principles for future players
    becomes essential;
c) When a country experiences frequent changes of government, it is extremely important to be prepared
    to brief the incoming government and reconfirm government’s priorities;

32The relationship with the ACE consortium was very fluid and positive, and the Bank was able to obtain flexibility for the group
of countries it was financing.


                                                               22
d) When considering the development of a program to distribute computer devices for educational
   purposes, it is important to develop a comprehensive program beyond just the procurement of
   equipment, and including teachers training, digital content, sustainability models and distribution
   channels.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies

97.    The borrower’s comments on the draft version of this ICR are included in Annex 6 and translated
below:

“The support that our country had from the World Bank, focused in the design and implementation of a strategic
project had an undeniable and significant impact in the area of Telecommunications and Information and
Communication Technologies. We are pleased with the extremely positive results which were obtained by the
project. Government is extremely pleased for having been able to operationalize the objectives that had been set and
implement all of the activities which were foreseen.
We would also like to stress that the World Bank support, both from an institutional point of view and with regards
to the various teams involved in implementation was not only fundamental, but also of a high level of
professionalism, quality and efficacy. This has allowed the country to disburse 105% of the project original amount,
by the original closing date, as well as, and most of all, create many synergies by making the most of the financial
resources that were made available to us.
For everything that translated into a successful implementation of the project, we take this opportunity to express
our recognition and sincerely thank all those who have contributed directly and indirectly for the project’s success.
Kindly convey to all the relevant bodies in the World Bank and particularly to the Board all our appreciation and
consideration.”

98.      The ICR prepared by the borrower is also included in Annex 7.




                                                         23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                        Actual/Latest
                                                 Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
                 Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                                  (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                                           millions)
Component 1 – Enabling
                                                           1.15                  1.42                  101%
Environment
  1.1 ICT strategic Plan                                   0.05                  0.05                  103%
 1.2 Technical assistance and
 capacity building for legal and                           0.25                  0.56                  225%
 regulatory reform
 1.3 Tendering of a second global
                                                           0.35                  0.38                  109%
 license
 1.4 Technical Assistance for PPP
                                                           0.40                  0.19                   48%
 arrangements
 1.5 Environmental studies + M&E                            0.10                0.18                   184%
 Other Consultancies33                                       0                  0.05                   184%
Component 2 – Connectivity                                 13.25               13.10                   99%
 2.1 Participation in ADE
                                                           13.10               13.10                   100%
 consortium
 2.2 Establishment of IXP                                  0.15                  -                      0%
 Internet Access - Educational
                                                            0                    0.27
 Institutions
Component 3 – Project
                                                            0.5                  0.55                  110%
Management
 3.1 Project coordinator, other staff
                                                            0.5                  0.55                  110%
 (shared by PASS), audits, etc.
               Total Baseline Cost                         14.9                15.06                   101%
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00
                                                                                 0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00
                                                                                 0.00                   0.00
                Total Project Costs                        14.9                 15.06                  101%
Front-end fee PPF                                          0.00                  0.00                    .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                         0.00                  0.00                    .00
        Total Financing Required                           14.9                 15.06

Note:
            Figures based on PCU accounting records. Several of the figures are above 100% because the project
            experienced a net gain in exchange rate between the SDR and the US$ throughout its implementation. Due
            to constant changes on exchange rates along project cycle, amounts differ as the exchange rate from XDR
            to USD as of project closing date differs from the rates used when paid each of the WA. The final disbursed
            amount in USD equivalent for the project is USD 15,425,665.61.




33
     Study of options for Island of Principe Connection.



                                                                  24
(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of                                      Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                         Cofinancing                                      Appraisal
                                                         (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                 0.00           0.00           .00
IDA Grant                                                14.90          15.06          101%


(c) Reallocation of funds


             Category of Expenditure                        Allocation             % of Financing
 Current                               Revised        Current        Revised      Current   Revise
 (1) Goods, works, consultants’      -
 services and Operational Costs for              725,000         1,243,503.03    7          13
 the Project
 (2) Consortium Fee under Part 2.1 -
                                                 5,315,000       5,147,903.03    54         53
 of the Project
  (3) Refund of Preparation          -
 Advance No. Q 715-STP and of
                                                 3,760,000       3,408,593.94    38         35
 Preparation Advance No. Q 725-
 STP
                                                 9,800,000       9,800,000




                                                 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project has delivered most of the expected outputs, being the most significant Component 2 –
Connectivity. All the consultancies under the enabling environment component were successfully delivered
and its outputs attained. The only exception is the setup of the IXP, as already discussed above

The following table includes the activities carried out during the project per component linked to the outputs
attained:

 Component                          Activities                                    Outputs
 Component 1 – Enabling Environment
 Technical assistance Technical Assistance provided to           Bill for the Modification to the Telecom
 for legal and          modernize and harmonize legal            Base Law - It aimed at reflecting the new
 regulatory reform, to and regulatory framework the ICT          reality in the Telecom sector, namely the
 develop public         Sector                                   regulation for infrastructure open access
 private partnership                                             principle. In mid-2140 the GoSTP
 (PPP) arrangements                                              approved the bill, but pending the
 for the infrastructure                                          publications of the bill
 to be developed and                                             (see also comment on interconnection
 to launch a second                                              decree below)
 mobile                 Tendering of a second global             In May 2013 the second license was
 telecommunications license                                      awarded to UNITEL International
 operator,                                                       Holding BV and on July 2014 UNITEL
 environmental                                                   launched their commercial activities
 studies and M&E                                                 meaning the arrival of competition in the
 support;                                                        Telecom sector for first time in the
                                                                 country.
                         Technical assistance to perform         In April 2014, prior the effective entrance
                         technical and financial annual          of UNITEL in STP-Cabo SPV, a
                         audits of the ACE SPV                   technical audit was performed to ensure
                                                                 smooth transition from GoSTP
                                                                 participation to UNITEL. It was decided
                                                                 that technical assistance for financial
                                                                 audit was not needed.
                         Technical Assistance to improve         Three projects were structured:
                         access to ICT service in rural areas     Internet connection to Secondary
                         and to structure PPP investments           Schools: On July 2014 a tender was
                                                                    launched that resulted in a contract
                                                                    awarded to CST on August 2014. By
                                                                    the end of the project all 27 secondary
                                                                    schools were connected to Internet
                                                                    with Wi-FI technology. The
                                                                    implementation of this contract project
                                                                    was funded with CAB2 project
                                                                    proceeds.
                                                                  Telecenters: On October 2014, the
                                                                    tender documents for establish 4
                                                                    telecenters in underserved areas were
                                                                    delivered to the GoSTP.



                                                     26
                                                            ICT devices for Secondary Schools:
                                                              On October 2014, the design and
                                                              bidding documents for the provision
                                                              of low cost tablet devices to secondary
                                                              students and teachers was also
                                                              delivered to the GoSTP.
                                                           The implementation of the two latter
                                                           projects is subject to Government
                                                           approval of the use of its own funds
                                                           received from the introduction of
                                                           UNITEL.

                     ICT Strategy Plan                     The ICT Sector Strategy which provides
                                                           a comprehensive framework to continue
                                                           promoting ICTs across the country. It
                                                           established for first time objectives, roles,
                                                           responsibilities, monitoring measures,
                                                           etc. to harness the best potential of ICTs
                                                           in STP.

                                                           In 2012 an ICT Strategy was prepared
                                                           after consultations with various sector
                                                           stakeholders. At the end of 2014 the
                                                           GoSTP approved the ICT Strategy, but its
                                                           adoption it’s pending.
                     Technical assistance provided to      On July 2014, interconnection tariffs
                     AGER for the establishment of         were established through and agreement
                     interconnection tariffs between       between CST and UNITEL allowing
                     different operators                   mobile subscribers to call regardless
                     Technical assistance carried out to   operator.
                     build capacity within AGER to
                     develop economic cost model           Interconnection Decree – On September
                     calculations                          2014, the GoSTP published the
                                                           Interconnection Decree which set the
                                                           legal basis for interconnection given the
                                                           arrival of competition in the Telecom
                                                           sector.
                     Technical assistance provided to      In October 2014, an updated Universal
                     AGER to update Universal Service      Service Fund proposal was prepared and
                     Fund legal foundations                delivered. Its implementation depends on
                                                           the approval of the modifications to
                                                           Telecom law bill, which is still
                                                           outstanding and is expected for 2015
                     Environmental studies and             Studies were duly completed and STP
                     Monitoring and Evaluation             cable landing station installation was
                                                           done in compliance with safeguards
                                                           regulation. All compensations that were
                                                           due were calculated and successfully paid
                                                           to the affected people.
Component 2 – Connectivity



                                                27
Financing for STP’s    Participation in ACE consortium     The negotiations between CST/Portugal
contribution           (consortium fee)                    Telecom and the GoSTP concluded with
(consortium fee) for                                       the physical arrival of ACE Submarine
participating in the                                       Cable in November 2011. The works for
Africa Coast to                                            Cable Landing Station in São Gabriel
Europe (ACE) cable                                         were concluded in May 2012.
on an open access                                          In February 2013, ACE Submarine Cable
basis and on the                                           became commercially effective in STP.
basis of PPPs,                                             In May 2013, the GoSTP fully divested
leveraging private                                         in STP-Cabo SPV, transferring its shares
sector investment                                          to UNITEL and keeping a golden share to
and associated                                             ensure the country’s interests are
investments such as                                        protected (such as guaranteeing the
the setup of an IXP;                                       continued application of open access
                                                           principles).
                      * During MTR it was decided that
                      the implementation of the Internet
                      Exchange Points (IXP), was no
                      longer a priority given that there
                      were not many websites hosted in
                      STP the impact of an IXP would
                      be limited.
Component 3 – Project Management
Support to finance    Technical Assistance in journalism   A video report was produced to capture
management related for the mid-term evaluation of the      project results at MTR.
issues at the Project project
level, such as human Technical Assistance in               A report was prepared to summarize
resources support     monitoring and evaluation for the    project results at MTR.
with management,      mid-term evaluation of the project
procurement,          Technical Assistance to Elaborate    A consultant prepared a first version of
financial             the ICR                              the Government’s ICR draft.
management, M&E, PIU´s training and capacity               Advanced Procurement Training: In June
internal and external building                             2014 two staff members from AFAP
audit, and                                                 received one-week training in World
communications                                             Bank procurement guidelines.
expertise, operating
expenses and                                               English language training program: To
equipment.                                                 build language capacity within AFAP,
                                                           thanks to project savings at the end of the
                                                           project an English training program was
                                                           conducted, including English lessons to
                                                           all AFAP staff, and an intensive three-
                                                           week course in England for AFAP
                                                           coordinator.
                       Project coordination and            AFAP remained adequately staffed along
                       operational activities              project cycle, and provided a satisfactory
                                                           implementation of all project activities,
                                                           including financial and procurement
                                                           management, and accounting in
                                                           compliance with WB guidelines.



                                                  28
Additional Consultancy
Connection to the     Study of options to improve       An assessment of options to improve
Island of Principe    connectivity of Principe Island   Principe’s connectivity was carried out.
                                                        This resulted in, the two operators
                                                        upgrading their microwave links to
                                                        Principe to better serve the population in
                                                        that island. It also identified scenarios for
                                                        extending the submarine cable to
                                                        Príncipe. This has resulted in high level
                                                        contacts with the government of
                                                        Equatorial Guinea with the objective of
                                                        possibly developing a joint investment.
                                                        These discussions are still ongoing.




                                                 29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. ACE Long Term Cost Savings and Higher Bandwidth Compared to other Options.

At appraisal the project documentation included a comparison of ACE with other alternatives for
international connectivity, and concluded that ACE represented the preferred option for STP given its
associated long term cost savings and higher bandwidth. Although the levels of service between the
various options vary to some degree, options were compared upon the cost per Mbps/month (cost of
termination/transit to the global backbones), and the chart below illustrates analysis of options conducted
at appraisal34.                           Bandwidth Comparison Chart

                                   Standard Geostationary Satellite


                                              Inclined Orbit Satellite


                                            SAT-3 Nigeria-Portugal


                              SEACOM South Africa – UK 1yr lease


                                       Independent Cable to Bonny


                      MainOne Phase 1 – Nigeria-Portugal 1 yr lease


                                                                 03B


                            ACE Sao Tome-France 500Mbps usage


                       MainOne Phase 1 – Nigeria-Portugal 15yr IRU


                              SEACOM South Africa – UK 20yr IRU


                             ACE Sao Tome-France 2.4Gbps usage


                                                                         0    500    1,000   1,500     2,000   2,500   3,000   3,500   4,000   4,500

                                                                             Cos t/Mbps /Month (USD)


                        Figure 6. STP International Connectivity Options - Bandwidth Comparison Chart

The analysis indicated that the preferred option to improving international connectivity in STP was a
submarine fiber link (in preference to any of the satellite solutions) due to both long term cost and the
higher performance (low latency) offered by fiber connections. The benefits of cable over satellite were
expected to grow as demand for international connectivity in STP continued to grow. The option to use
funds to subsidize the high cost of satellite links over a long period was found to be not cost effective, as
much more funds would have been required just over the following 8 years, than would have been needed
to build the fiber link.

Amongst the fiber options, although ACE had the highest up-front-costs (the 20-year pre-paid
subscription fee), ACE was recommended due to its long-term low cost. This is mainly because no
intermediary links needed to be purchased and the traffic lands directly in Europe where global transit
fees are highly competitive. In addition, the investment costs made up-front in the consortium model
implied cost savings which would not have been available through the third party supplier model adopted
in other alternatives.

The table below summarizes the details of the technical options analyzed at appraisal. A comparison is
done first between generic satellite and fiber features. The figures shown in the table for satellite
bandwidth required are based on CST's initial estimates of demand. The fiber bandwidth figure for the
independent cable is the total that would be available for the fixed price of the investment in the cable
project, rather than being a reflection of demand.


34
  Prices for some links that do not include Sao Tome are shown for illustrative purposes and inform the discussion around the
possibility of an independent link.



                                                                                      30
               Variant 1a: Variant 1b:          Variant 1c:       ACE Submarine          MainOne Cable             Independent
               Geostationar Inclined               03B                 Cable                Phase 2               Cable to Bonny,
                y satellite orbit satellite                        Consortium                                        Nigeria
   Start Da     Mid 2010      Mid 2010            Q3 2012         Mid to Late 2012             2012                Could be 2011
  Bandwidth       $4,000         $2,000         $1500 (up to             $60-500            $250-$300                   $650
 Cost (Mbps/                                      155Mbps
   month)                                        symmetric)
                                                 $1000 after
 Advantages Many options      Price per       Lowest      Single point of            Single point of purchase,   Choice of
            in case of        Mbps 50%                    purchase, low
                                              bandwidth cost                         simpler management.         upstream services,
            satellite or      lower than                  local management
                                              for the satellite                      The project is already in   greater reliability,
            equipment         Option 1a                   overhead.
                                              options; Higher                        place and the project is    ultimately more
            failure                           quality     Consortium is              about to close. Includes    b/w available.
                                              bandwidth   already in place           onward connectivity to      Lower CAPEX
                                                          and the project is
                                              (lower latency                         Europe. Decision not        and OPEX.
                                              than geo-   about to close;            required immediately.       Decision not
                                              satellites) Includes onward            No need to pre-purchase     required
                                                          connectivity to            so much unused              immediately
                                                          Europe.                    bandwidth.
    Dis-       Price per     O&M more Not quite fiber Highest CAPEX                  No investment CAPEX         Need for
 advantages    Mbps much expensive        speeds/costs;   investment                 required, other than as     independent
               higher than than Option Need to wait to required.                     pre-project IRU             management,
               for Option 1b 1a           2012 while      Immediate                  purchase. Likely higher     planning and
                                          other satellite decision required.         cost /Mbps than ACE         maintenance;
                             More limited options can be                                                         Need to purchase
                             options for  implemented                                                            upstream
                             timely       immediately                                                            bandwidth from
                             restoration                                                                         landing station(s).
                                                                                                                 Higher cost /Mbps
    Risks      Very low       Small risk of Small risk of         Small risk of      Small risk of Phase 2       Unexpected cost
               chance that    service being project failure       project failure    project failure             escalation due to
               satellite      discontinued                                                                       sea-floor or
               bandwidth is   (satellite                                                                         approach
               unavailable    fails)                                                                             anomalies




 Investment       $292K          $585K             $250K                  $25m                 None                     $15m
  required/
   CAPEX
  Capacity       205Mbps        390Mbps       up to 800Mbps/           up to 5Gbps      As much as needed            40-80Gbps
                                                transponder
Annual Opex     $0.3-3.5K       $1.3-3.8K     None (supplier           $655K (3.5%   4.5% of IRU value, built       $339K (3.5%
                                                 provided)               CAPEX)         into b/w cost above           CAPEX)

    NPV           -$4.94        -$3.51m                                  -$5.33m


2. Financial model calculation.

The financial model used at time of appraisal, among other things, estimated costs and demand for
broadband connectivity in STP over the life of the ACE cable, by simulating the broadband / Internet
access businesses of the incumbent CST and providing high level estimates of potential capacity usage by
the second operator. Particularly, IRR focused on four assumptions:
(i) required capital investment of US$25 million over two years; (ii) weighted average capacity of 5,500
Mbps; (iii) operating and maintenance expenses of US$439,000 annually over 10 years; and (iv) increases
in Internet penetration rates.




                                                                  31
Initial forecast for Internet penetration rates (which constituted the basis for Internet revenues in the
financial model) assumed an extremely low level of Internet uptake: a 10% increase from 2010 to 2021;
however, as of December 2014 Internet penetration was 18%.

In 2010, STP’s Internet penetration rate was below the average for African countries, but in contrast
Internet usage was higher for STP than the average for Africa. This was assumed as an indication of
potential subscribers in STP who could be aware of the benefits of the Internet and might pay for Internet
access if prices were more affordable. Also, appraisal projections considered Africa’s recent evidences in
broadband demand elasticity35, the high costs (relative to income levels) and the relatively slow speeds
available before ACE in STP.

Despite the above considerations, penetration forecasts substantially underestimated pent-up demand,
particularly if considering (i) the expected improvement with ACE in bandwidth and price (a factor
affecting demand elasticity); and (ii) the trends worldwide in broadband adoption levels (especially
encouraged by the explosion of mobile broadband 3G36). Internet rates were especially underestimated
towards the end of the analysis period (1.8% in 2021), by which date it is expected that almost every
mobile phone user would have access to broadband on their handset.
At preparation, the model was used to assess many different scenarios, based on a wide range of
assumptions, not simply the assumptions showing now. These included for example:
    • Allocation of ACE capacity to CST vs. new operator, depending on timing and success of the
        second operator
    • Annual O&M (based on ACE fixed 3%)
    • Pricing
    • WACC of 12%
    • Perpetual growth rate of 2.0%

The financial model has been reviewed by updating the estimated figures at the time of preparations, with
real data (2009-2013), and with a re-estimation of forecasted figures from 2014 and onwards based on
latest data available. The following table summarizes the datasets updated for the purposes of financial
model review:

 Item                                   Dataset                                      Source
 Internet Revenues
                                        Penetration rates                            CST and UNITEL
                                        Population                                   World Economic Indicators
                                        Fixed Internet ARPU                          CST
                                        Fixed Mobile ARPU                            CST
 STP-Cabo Operating Expenses
                                        ACE Operating & Maintenance                  CST (STP-Cabo)
                                        STP-Cabo other running costs                 CST (STP-Cabo)
                                        Amortization ACE payments                    CST (STP-Cabo)


                                   Financial Analysis (without UNITEL’s investment)
(Figures in US$)
IRR                    2010      2011      2012    2013     2014     2015     2016      2017    2018     2019        2020     2021




35
   Broadband demand is very sensitive to changes in price, and even relatively small reductions in price can generate substantial
increases in demand and penetration.
36
     3G data service uptake from the consumer has been massive and unprecedented in other developing countries such as Kenya



                                                               32
CST Internet
                                  -                -                -   1,956,188     2,374,528      3,153,500    4,217,362   4,800,333   5,411,598   6,046,586        6,701,384       7,372,702
Revenues
                                  -                -                -   1,480,403     1,934,675      3,077,460    3,696,375   4,356,206   4,861,057   5,429,729        5,962,150       6,545,654
Other Revenue
                                  -                -                -   1,988,054     1,784,913      1,836,456    1,834,640   1,832,825   1,831,013   1,829,202        1,827,393       1,825,585
ACE Opex
                                                                                  -             -             -           -           -           -               -               -               -
ACE payments            7,500,000       16,250,000       1,250,000
                                  -                -                -             -             -             -           -           -           -               -               -   38,907,029
Terminal Value


Net Cash Flow       (7,500,000)       (16,250,000)      (1,250,000)     1,448,537     2,524,291      4,394,503    6,079,096   7,323,714   8,441,642   9,647,113       10,836,141      50,999,800



IRR                        19%




                                                       Financial Analysis (with UNITEL’s investment)

While the financial analysis looked at revenues from both CST and an expected second operator in the
STP market, it did not include the effect of the UNITEL´s investment, as at the time the conditions and
timeline for introduction of the second operator were still uncertain. The award in 2013 of the second
license to UNITEL Holding and its purchase of GoSTP STP-Cabo’s shares resulted in US$8 million paid
into the STP’s Treasury account. Taking this into account, the financial IRR resulting from STP
investment into ACE consortium rises to 22%.

(Figures in US$)

IRR                          2010            2011            2012           2013         2014          2015        2016        2017        2018        2019            2020             2021



CST Internet Revenues         -                -                -         1,956,188    2,374,528     3,153,500    4,217,362   4,800,333   5,411,598   6,046,586       6,701,384       7,372,702

                              -                -                -         1,480,403    1,934,675     3,077,460    3,696,375   4,356,206   4,861,057   5,429,729       5,962,150       6,545,654
Other Revenue
ACE Opex                      -                -                -         1,988,054    1,784,913     1,836,456    1,834,640   1,832,825   1,831,013   1,829,202       1,827,393       1,825,585

                                                                              -             -            -            -           -           -           -               -               -
ACE payments              7,500,000       16,250,000        1,250,000

                              -                -                -             -             -            -            -           -           -           -               -           38,907,029
Terminal Value
                                                                          8,000,000
UNITEL’s Investment

Net Cash Flow            ($7,500,000) ($16,250,000) ($1,250,000) $9,448,537 $2,524,291 $4,394,503 $6,079,096 $7,323,714 $8,441,642 $9,647,113 $10,836,141 $50,999,800



IRR                               22%




3. Consumer surplus calculation for 2010-2014

For consumer surplus calculations, it has been assumed that the segment of demand relevant to this
analysis is assumed to be linear. Basically, the calculation of consumer surplus can be shown in the
following graph:




                                                                                                33
When supply shifted from S0 to S1 with the arrival of the submarine cable, price dropped and quantity
increased. The area shown in dark grey represents transfers from operators or suppliers to consumers,
whereas the light grey area represents actual gains in consumer surplus created with the increase
subscriber’s base.
It could be argued that what happened in the market was a combination of shifts in demand and supply.
However, it can be demonstrated that had a shift in demand occurred, it would increase welfare.

If we take weighted price of Internet services per Mbps, and quantity to be the total number of subscribers
to Internet services, then the following table can be calculated:


Figures in USD
                                                            2010         2011         2012         2013           2014
 Weighted Internet retail price for 1 Mbps subscription
 (monthly)
                                                             852          410          410          104             52
 Weighted Internet retail price for 1 Mbps subscription
 (annually)                                                10,224       4,914        4,914        1,248            624


 Total Population
                                                          178,228     183,177      188,098      192,993        197,781
 Penetration rate (Internet subscribers per 100 people)    0.70%       0.70%         2.32%        7.67%        17.90%

 Total subscribers                                                      1,282        4,364       14,809         35,403
                                                            1,248
 Increment number of subscribers                                           35        3,082       10,445         20,594

 New Consumer Surplus (linear)                                                    7,571,887    6,517,680     6,425,287

 Transfer from suppliers                                            6,624,735     6,624,735   22,623,159    31,863,975

 Total consumer surplus                                             6,624,734.   14,196,621   29,140,838    38,289,262


                                                                                                  Total    88,251,457

Source: CST, UNITEL, World Bank Development Indicators.
So the total gains consumers have been approximately US$88 million (US$67 since ACE’s).

Overall, consumer surplus is calculated for the entire project implementation cycle, as opposed to just
from the arrival of ACE given that in addition to international connectivity infrastructure, the project
included activities to contribute reduce prices in the sector. However, for the purpose of including



                                                            34
consumer surplus into the economic analysis of ACE investment (see section 5 of this Annex), only data
from 2013 and onwards is considered.

4. Financial and Economic Analysis

ACE’s return rate calculations in the PAD were purely financial and did not consider an Economic Return
Rate (ERR). The impact of the incremental consumer surplus associated with ACE’s expected effect on
price reductions was not quantified in the PAD. If added to the financial return, the estimated ERRs is
73%.
                                                           Financial and Economic Analysis (with UNITEL’s investment)

                     2010               2011              2012              2013            2014             2015             2016             2017             2018             2019             2020             2021
Total
Consumer                                                                   29,140,839 38,289,262 33,486,785 33,545,794 33,602,756 33,657,406 33,709,482 33,758,721 33,804,870
surplus

Total
                                                                           29,140,839 38,289,262 33,486,785 33,545,794 33,602,756 33,657,406 33,709,482 33,758,721 33,804,870
Economic

Economic
NPV             $145,344,841

CST Internet
             -                    -                  -                 1,956,188       2,374,528        3,153,500        4,217,362        4,800,333        5,411,598        6,046,586        6,701,384        7,372,702
Revenues
Other
              -                   -                  -                 1,480,403       1,934,675        3,077,460        3,696,375        4,356,206        4,861,057        5,429,729        5,962,150        6,545,654
Revenue
ACE Opex        -                 -                  -                 1,988,054       1,784,913        1,836,456        1,834,640        1,832,825        1,831,013        1,829,202        1,827,393        1,825,585

ACE
                                                                       -               -                -                -                -                -                -                -                -
payments            (7,500,000)       (16,250,000)       (1,250,000)
Terminal
                              -                  -                 --                  -                -                -                -                -                -                -                38,907,029
Value
UNITEL’s
                                                                           8,000,000
investment
Net Financial
Cash Flow           (7,500,000)       (16,250,000)       (1,250,000) 10,524,291             2,524,291        4,394,503        6,079,096        7,323,714        8,441,642        9,647,113       10,836,141       50,999,800



Total returns
(financial +
economic)           (7,500,000)       (16,250,000)       (1,250,000) 30,589,376            48,813,553       37,881,288       39,624,890       40,926,471       42,099,048       43,356,595       44,594,862       84,804,670



IRR                   73%




5. Economic Impact on GDP Growth

The estimated economic benefits to STP of investing in ACE at appraisal were linked to the economic
multiplier effect of increased broadband penetration rates to the economy. According to WB research,
each 10% increase in broadband penetration increases overall GDP growth in developing countries by
1.38%37. The lower-cost broadband connectivity provided by ACE was expected to encourage
substantially higher broadband penetration in STP, thereby increasing GDP growth. Based on the
economic multiplier and estimated penetration rates in STP with and without ACE capacity, the analysis
concluded that the increased penetration resulting from ACE would had increased annual GDP by an
annual average of approximately 0.8 points over the first 9 years after ACE. This considered that without
ACE penetration rates would had remained at 0.5% until 2021, which is a scenario proved unrealistic
given that in 2012, without ACE in place yet, penetration rate grew in 1.62 points. The following table
shows illustrates the potential economic impact studied at project preparation.

37
  "Information and Communications for Development 2009: Extending Reach and Increasing Impact, World Bank. Chapter:
Economic Impacts of Broadband, page 45. Authors: Christine Zhen-Wei Qiang and Carlo M. Rossotto with Kaoru Kimura


                                                                                                             35
                 Indicative STP Growth in GDP Resulting from Increases in Broadband Penetration Rate
                                            2013 2014       2015    2016     2017    2018    2019    2020              2021
Penetration Rate – without ACE              0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50%                            0.50%
Penetration Rate - CST Forecast             1.80% 2.80% 3.90% 5.10% 6.10% 7.20% 8.20% 9.10%                           10.10%
Increase in Penetration Rate                1.30% 2.30% 3.40% 4.60% 5.60% 6.70% 7.70% 8.60%                            9.60%
GDP Multiplier                              1.38% 1.38% 1.38% 1.38% 1.38% 1.38% 1.38% 1.38%                            1.38%
Increase in GDP Growth Rate                0.179% 0.317% 0.469% 0.635% 0.773% 0.925% 1.063% 1.187%                    1.325%
STP forecast GDP growth rate without ACE 4.803% 4.755% 4.707% 4.660% 4.614% 4.568% 4.522% 4.477%                      4.432%
Indicative STP GDP Growth Rate with ACE 4.982% 5.072% 5.177% 5.295% 5.387% 5.492% 5.585% 5.663%                       5.757%



Since the launch of ACE’s commercial services in 2013, STP’s actual increase in penetration rates
(+15.6%) shows that the effect on GDP growth could have already contributed to GDP growth by 2.2
points as of the end of 2014. And the updated forecast on annual average impact GDP growth for the first
9 years could account for an average close to 0.5 points per year since the arrival of ACE. The following
table depicts an updated analysis of the potential economic impact on GDP growth after ACE’s arrival:


                                     2012        2013          2014     2015     2016      2017     2018     2019     2020     2021

 Penetration rate                     2.32%       7.67%        17.90%   20.05%   22.20%    24.35%   26.50%   28.65%   30.80%   32.95%

 Increase in penetration rate                     5.35%        10.23%   2.15%    2.15%     2.15%    2.15%    2.15%     2.15%   2.15%

 GDP Multiplier                                   1.38%        1.38%    1.38%    1.38%     1.38%    1.38%    1.38%     1.38%   1.38%

 Increase in GDP growth rate                       0.7%         1.4%     0.3%     0.3%      0.3%     0.3%     0.3%     0.3%     0.3%


     Estimated ACE impact on GDP Annual average (2013-2021):                       0.47%


6. Affordability Analysis

According to the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), broadband can be considered affordable
when it is at or below 5% of the average monthly income. If looking at the portion of the population in
STP for which a monthly Internet retail price of US$52 can cost more than 5% of their monthly income,
the result is Internet services are not affordable yet for the population. The monthly cost of Internet
represents still a 45% of the average income per capita. In addition to the costs of Internet, the cost of
devices also affects affordability. For instance, a monthly cost of US$238 could be added to STP’s
affordability gap.




38
   The price for low/mid-range cellular handset with Internet connectivity (Alcatel 2005 model) is US$37. Assuming a usage life
of 18 months, US$2 would be the monthly impact on affordability coming from device on top of the US$52 monthly Internet
cost.



                                                                         36
 Income Distribution for São Tomé and Principe

                                                       10%                   20%                 30%                   40%                   50%                 60%                   70%       80%    90%     100%

 São Tomé and Principe                           43.6%                12.7%                      9.6%                  8.0%                  6.6%                5.6%                  4.7%     3.9%   3.0%     2.2%     100.0%



 Monthly Income Level per decile for São Tomé and Principe in US$

 Deciles                                            10%                      20%                  30%                     40%                       50%                     60%                70%      80%      90%      100%

 São Tomé and Principe                                 504                   147                   112                        93                       77                             65         54       45       35        26



 Affordability of broadband in São Tomé and
 Principe (in US$)
                                       1st                               2nd                       3rd                     4th                    5th                     6th                   7th      8th      9th      10th
                                    decile                             decile                    decile                  decile                 decile                  decile                decile   decile   decile    decile
 5% of income per decile (in
                                     25.2                                     7.4                  5.6                        4.7                    3.8                              3.2       2.7      2.2      1.7       1.3
 US$)

 Internet services                                   52.0                    52.0                 52.0                    52.0                      52.0                     52.0              52.0     52.0     52.0      52.0

 5% of average income                                     5.8                 5.8                  5.8                        5.8                    5.8                          5.8           5.8      5.8      5.8       5.8




The chart below illustrates this analysis of affordability in STP of Internet services.

                   5% of monthly income level per capita per decile for STP (in US$)

                   Internet services monthly price in STP (in US$ as of June 2014)

                   5% of average income (ITU's estimated percentage of income for affordable access)

                                                                                                                                                                        52




     25.2




                                                                                                                                                                                      1.3
                       2nd decile




                                                                                                                                                                        10th decile
      1st decile




                                    3rd decile


                                                 4th decile


                                                                5th decile


                                                                                    6th decile


                                                                                                          7th decile


                                                                                                                                8th decile


                                                                                                                                                    9th decile




   *Source: World Development Indicators (http://data.worldbank.org) and ITU (2013)




                                                                                                                           37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
             Names                               Title                    Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Isabel Neto                     Senior Operations Officer                GEEDR Task Team Leader
Jerome Bezzina                  Senior Regulatory Economist              GTIDR
Yann Burtin                     Senior Underwriter                       MIGOP
Kaoru Kimura                    ICT Policy Specialist                    GTIDR
David Satola                    Lead Council                              ICOIO
Claudia M. Paradinas Ocana      Senior Council                           LEGCF
Christiaan Johannes Nieuwoudt   Financial Officer                        CTRLA
Elvis Teodoro Bernado Langa     Financial Management Specialist          GGODR
Antonio Chamuco                 Senior Procurement Specialist            GGODR
Michele Ralisoa Noro            Operations Analyst                       GTIDR
Michael Jensen                  Consultant                               GTCDR
Emeran Serge M. Menang Ecouna   Senior Environmental Specialist          GENDR
Lucienne M. M'Baipor            Senior Social Development Specialist     GSURR
                                Regional Environmental and Safeguards
Alexandra C. Bezeredi                                                    OPSOR
                                Advisor
Aissatou Dialllo                Senior Finance Officer                   CTRLA
Sonia Guilherme                 Consultant                               GGODR Procurement Specialist
Harvey D. Van Veldhuizen

Supervision/ICR
Isabel Neto                     Senior Operations Officer                GEEDR Task Team Leader
Enagnon Ernest Eric Adda        Senior Financial Management Specialist   GGODR
Christiaan Johannes Nieuwoudt   Financial Officer                        CTRLA
Elvis Teodoro Bernado Langa     Financial Management Specialist          GGODR
Aissatou Dialllo                Senior Finance Officer                   CTRLA
Antonio Chamuco                 Senior Procurement Specialist            GGODR
Juvenia Lidia Mapilele Cohen    Finance Analyst                          CTRLA
Sonia Guilherme                 Consultant                               GGODR Procurement Specialist
Eva Clemente Miranda            ICT Policy Specialist                    GTIDR ICR Primary Author
Christine Abdelmasih            Program Assistant                        GTIDR




                                                   38
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY10                                     30.64                          207.7
FY11                                     28.63                          138.5
FY12                                      .68                            2.7
FY13                                       -                              -
FY14                                       -                              -
FY15                                       -                              -
                          Total:         59.95                          348.9
Supervision/ICR
FY10                                        -                              -
FY11                                        -                              -
FY12                                      6.11                           34.2
FY13                                      10.2                           70.1
FY14                                     10.85                           72.9
FY15                                      4.23                            4.9
                          Total:         31.21                          219.1




                                       39
Annex 5. International Connectivity Wholesale prices Benchmark Analysis


Immediately after the entry into service of the submarine cable, Internet access prices, wholesale and
retail, started to fall. Before ACE, STP had to pay an average monthly cost of US$9,000 for international
connectivity. With the arrival of the cable, this wholesale price dropped to US$2,500, lower than
expected. It could be argued that targets were not aggressive enough, they were set based on expected
demand (wholesale prices are linked to international traffic) which grew faster than forecasted.
Nevertheless, wholesale prices in STP fell 72% after ACE’s launch, within the parameters of relevant
results, especially if compared to other cases such as East coast of Africa where one year after the arrival
of the first fiber optic cable prices fell 89% in Kenya, 64% in Madagascar, or 61% in Rwanda - this is
particularly true when considering that the market size in these countries is much larger than in STP and
also that the East Coast of Africa benefitted early on from competition in the international market with the
arrival of alternative cables39. At the same time, there are other small island examples, like the case of
Tonga (with even fewer population than STP and a similarly monopolistic telecom market at cable
arrival) that experienced a more consequent drop in wholesale prices of 87% in a similar period – this
may be explained by the different characteristics in these countries: despite similarities between Tonga
and STP, the difference on price drop may be explained by the fact that Tonga is an upper-middle income
country where tourism is 10% of GDP.


                          2008          2009        2010          2011          2012          2013           2014
 STP                                               $9,000        $9,000        $9,000        $2,500         $2,500
 Tonga                                                                         $3,600         $475           $475
 Kenya                 $7,500         $800          $800          $650          $650          $650           $287
 Madagascar           $10,000        $5,721        $4,897        $1,776        $1,367        $1,115          $844
 Burundi*              $8,000        $6,500        $6,500        $6,500        $2,800         $500           $300
 Rwanda               $10,000        $7,200        $2,800         $640          $580          $290           $125

* As a landlocked country, Burundi’s connection to international submarine cables has depended on the
roll out of the national backbone network. Burundi’s national network is being gradually expended across
the country, having few locations connected at initial stages. This is why the wholesale prices (as linked
to capacity usage) have been falling later than the first date in which the country was connected to a cable
consortium.

Name of Regional Cable consortiums:
 EASSy
 SEACOM
 TEAMS
 ACE
 Tonga Fiji Cable - Southern Cross Cable Network



39
   The cables TEAMS and SEACOM landed in the East Coast of Africa in June 2009 and July 2009 respectively and the EASSy
cable launched commercial service in July 2010. Unfortunately there is no data available for other countries connected to ACE
(due to the Ebola crisis in Sierra Leone and Liberia). STP particularities (i.e. prior international connectivity by satellite, small
size, lack of submarine cable competition) make it difficult to perform a benchmark analysis for comparison purposes.


                                                                 40
 12000


 10000


  8000


  6000


  4000


  2000


    0
           2008        2009         2010        2011         2012             2013       2014

             STP        Tonga       Kenya       Madagascar          Burundi          Rwanda



  Year in which a new fiber optic cable arrived to the market

Source: project M&E data from WB projects P094103, P094103, P094103, P106369 and Tonga ICT
Economic and Social Impact Report (Draft May 2015) from Pacific Infrastructure Facility.




                                                  41
Annex 6. Borrower's comments on Draft ICR




                                      42
43
44
Annex 7. Borrower’s ICR


RESUMO
O presente relatório integra a fase final do Projecto “CENTRAL AFRICAN BACKBONE – APL
2”, doravante apenas Projecto CAB2, e é referente ao período compreendido entre Janeiro de 2011
e Dezembro de 2014.
Este relatório de avaliação do Governo de São Tomé e Príncipe, adiante apenas Governo, procura
descrever, de forma sucinta, os diferentes estágios de desenvolvimento do projecto, desde a sua
implementação até a concretização dos objectivos propostos.
O relatório final de avaliação está estruturado em seis secções: na primeira secção é feita a
introdução do projecto; na segunda secção é feita uma abordagem sobre o processo de preparação
do projecto; na terceira secção é descrita a forma de implementação do projecto; na quarta secção
são descritos os principais resultados alcançados; na quinta secção é feita a avaliação dos
resultados, dos riscos e dos intervenientes no projecto; na sexta e última secção são feitas as
conclusões e as recomendações e aborda-se também a existência ou não de riscos de
sustentabilidade que poderão diminuir a utilidade do projecto.



1. Introdução
O Projecto CAB2 surgiu da necessidade e da oportunidade única de São Tomé e Príncipe integrar
a rede de cabos submarinos de telecomunicações, que constitui a espinha dorsal da rede de
comunicações a nível mundial.
As infraestruturas deste projecto foram implementadas pelo consórcio ACE (Africa Coast to
Europe), com sede em Paris, visando interligar 23 países, desde a França até a África do Sul,
através de um cabo de fibra óptica de cerca de 17.000 km, também designado por cabo ACE.
O projecto foi desenvolvido pelo Governo de São Tomé e Príncipe, com o apoio do Banco Mundial,
da Companhia São-tomense de Telecomunicações, adiante apenas CST e da Portugal Telecom,
adiante apenas PT.
Certo é que, dos quatro segmentos do cabo ACE, três já estão concluídos; o terceiro segmento que
liga Costa de Marfim- São Tomé já foi instalado. O quarto segmento, que deverá ligar São Tomé
à África do Sul, ainda não foi implementado, mas as últimas informações indicam que as
discussões para a implementação do segmento 4 evoluíram positivamente e já há financiamento


                                               45
para tal. Contudo, esta informação deveria ser ainda confirmada numa reunião do consórcio ACE
a ter lugar em Lisboa em meados de Dezembro de 2014.
Os cabos de fibra óptica transmitem tráfego de voz e de dados com maior fiabilidade e segurança
a taxas menos onerosas do que por satélite.
Assim sendo, os principais objectivos traçados com o Projecto CAB2 foram os seguintes:
   a) Reduzir os custos das telecomunicações, nomeadamente das comunicações internacionais
       e do acesso à Internet de banda larga;
   b) Reformar o quadro jurídico e regulamentar para o sector das telecomunicações;
   c) Promover a entrada de uma segunda operadora de serviços de telecomunicações;
   d) Melhorar o acesso das populações mais desfavorecidas à rede de telecomunicações,
       aumentando o alcance geográfico do uso de serviços de banda larga e;
   e) Elaborar uma estratégia nacional para as Tecnologias de Informação e Comunicação (TIC).

A implementação do projecto foi co-financiada pelo IDA, adiante apenas Banco Mundial, e pelo
sector privado, nomeadamente pelo grupo PT e pela CST.
A competência para coordenar as acções administrativas, contabilísticas, financeiras, a licitação e
a execução do projecto CAB2 foi atribuída a Agência Fiduciária de Administração de Projectos
(AFAP), devido essencialmente ao seu reconhecimento junto ao Banco Mundial.


2. Preparação do Projecto
As negociações para o acesso aberto às capacidades do cabo submarino ACE iniciaram em Abril
de 2010, através da elaboração de documentos de Parceria Público Privada (PPP) entre o Governo
e o grupo PT, para o estabelecimento de uma Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), com a intervenção
do Banco Mundial e consultores do Governo.
Por conseguinte, em Junho de 2010, a Companhia Santomense de Telecomunicações (CST)
assinou o acordo de adesão ao consórcio ACE, como operadora de telecomunicações de São Tomé
e Príncipe, para ligação ao cabo submarino ACE.
Atendendo a inúmeras vantagens que este projecto apresenta para o país, o Governo decidiu
angariar meios de financiamento para a concretização do mesmo.
Deste modo, o Governo estabeleceu com o Banco Mundial um acordo de donativo, Nº H-642-ST,
no valor de 14,9 milhões de USD.



                                                46
O Banco Mundial aprovou o projecto em 12 de Janeiro de 2011, os documentos legais foram
assinados em 24 de Janeiro de 2011, tendo-se tornado efectivo a 6 de Julho de 2011.
O Plano de Acção e Aquisição do Projecto, conhecido como Procurement Plan (PP) foi aprovado
em 11 de Outubro de 2011.
Pese embora o financiamento do Banco Mundial e atendendo que o custo total do investimento foi
calculado em 25 milhões de USD, o Governo conseguiu angariar a segunda parte do financiamento
junto às entidades privadas, tendo a Portugal Telecom (PT) participado com 7 milhões de USD e
a Companhia Santomense de Telecomunicações (CST) participado com 4,9 milhões de USD,
perfazendo um total de 11,9 milhões de USD.
O financiamento privado foi concedido na totalidade no ano 2012.
É preciso considerar que, dos 14,9 milhões de USD previstos inicialmente no acordo de
financiamento assinado entre o Governo e o Banco Mundial, a AFAP conseguiu desembolsar o
total de 15.7 milhões de USD. Esta diferença representa o ganho decorrido da diferença cambial
entre USD e SDR (Direitos Especiais de Saque, que foi a moeda utilizada no acordo de
financiamento), tendo-se registado uma taxa de desembolso na ordem dos 105%.
Para melhor ilustrar a distribuição do investimento efectuado até 31 de Dezembro de 2014, de
acordo com as actividades do projecto, veja-se a tabela seguinte, em milhões de USD:
                              Financiamento do    Financiamento do
 Custos do projecto por                                                                  Valor em
                                Banco Mundial       Banco Mundial     Sector Privado
 componentes/Actividades                                                               percentagem
                               (valor estimado)    (valor efectivo)
 Componente 1- Condições
                                    1.15                1.85
 favoráveis
 1.1. Plano estratégico das
                                    0.05                0.05                              100%
 TIC
 1.2. Assistência Técnica a
 reforma legal e                    0.25                0.20                              80%
 regulamentar
 1.3. Concurso para
 atribuição da segunda              0.35                0.38                              109%
 licença
 1.4. Assistência Técnica
 para estruturação das              0.40                0.12                              30%
 PPPs
 1.5. Estudos ambientais do
                                    0.10                0.12                              123%
 projecto
 1.6. Assistência técnica
 para realizar auditorias
                                                        0.02
 técnicas e financeiras
 anuais ao projecto




                                                   47
 1.7. Assistência técnica
 prestada a AGER para o
 estabelecimento de tarifas                             0.2
 de interconexão entre os
 diferentes operadores
 1.8. Assistência técnica a
 AGER para desenvolver
                                                        0.1
 cálculos do modelo de
 custo económico
 1.9. Assistência técnica a
 AGER para actualizar bases
                                                        0.2
 legais do Fundo de Serviço
 Universal

 Componente 2 -
                                 13.25                 13.10                   99%
 Conectividade
      1.1. Participação no
                                 13.10                 13.10     11.90         100%
 consórcio ACE
      1.2. Estabelecimento
                                 0.15                  Anulado
 das IXP

 Componente 3 – Gestão
                                 0.50                  0.50                    100%
 do projecto
 3.1. Coordenação, Staff,
 auditorias, novos               0.50                  0.50                    100%
 projectos, etc.
 Componente 4 –
                                                       0.295
 Consultoria suplementar
 Conectividade para a Ilha
                                                       0.025
 do Príncipe
 Internet nas escolas
                                                       0.27
 secundárias

 Custo total do projecto
                                 14.9                  15.70     11.9          105%
 (milhões USD)


Mesmo não estando previsto no acordo, o Governo santomense também disponibilizou terrenos e
benefícios fiscais para a concretização do projecto.




3. Implementação do Projecto




                                                48
Para a implementação do projecto, foi necessário criar uma entidade de gestão do Cabo submarino
ACE em São Tomé, a STP Cabo, constituída inicialmente pela CST, com a participação de 74.5%
e pelo Governo com a participação de 25.5%. Posteriormente, em 2013, o Governo alienou
25,4999997% da sua participação na STP Cabo à UNITEL STP, detendo actualmente uma
participação de 0,0000003%, a “golden share” na Sociedade, o que lhe confere poder para vetar
qualquer alteração aos estatutos da STP Cabo que altere o princípio de acesso aberto à capacidade
do cabo e ainda de ser representado no Conselho de Administração por um membro.
A STP Cabo é a entidade responsável pela implementação e operação da estação de cabos e infra-
estruturas associadas em São Tomé.
Ainda no âmbito do projecto CAB2, foi necessário efectuar, em 2011, estudos de impacto
ambiental e social e/ou dos riscos relativos ao projecto e incorporá-los num Plano de Gestão
Ambiental e Social (ESMP) bem como num Plano de Acção de Reassentamento Abreviado das
Pessoas Afectadas pelo Projecto (RAP).
O estudo do impacto ambiental foi efectuado devido a necessidade de edificar duas câmaras de
visita na Praia Melão, condutas de cabos terrestres e a construção de uma estação de amarração
dos cabos em São Gabriel, no Distrito de Água Grande, São Tomé.
Por outro lado, foi também imprescindível que a CST alienasse os terrenos próximos da estação
de São Gabriel à STP Cabo, que eram ocupados por agricultores com o consentimento da CST. Os
sete agricultores afectados pela desocupação dos 1 922m² de terra próxima da estação de
amarração dos cabos foram compensados, pela perda directa de colheita, em apoio relativo aos
rendimentos e no restauro das formas de sustento. A CST foi a responsável pelo pagamento de
todas as indemnizações às pessoas afectadas pelo projecto, no valor total de STD 267.914.893,00
(duzentos e sessenta e sete milhões, novecentos e catorze mil, oitocentos e noventa e três dobras).
As compensações foram pagas na totalidade no ano 2012.
Posteriormente, foi também necessário que a STP Cabo celebrasse um contrato de compra e venda
com o proprietário do terreno em Praia Melão, São Tomé, onde foi amarrado o terceiro segmento
do Cabo ACE.
A auditoria técnica à estação de amarração do cabo submarino teve início em princípios do ano
2014 e terminou em Maio de 2014. Esta auditoria, que foi elaborada pelo consultor Gerard Dupin,
serviu sobretudo para avaliar as condições de instalação e amarração do cabo ACE, desde a praia
até a estação de cabos em São Gabriel. Os resultados foram satisfatórios.



                                                49
No seguimento de um dos principais objectivos do projecto, foram entregues à AGER pelos
consultores GIDE/ICEA, no dia 6 de Agosto de 2012, os documentos finais para o lançamento do
concurso de atribuição de licença a uma segunda operadora de telecomunicações. Após a
aprovação do Governo, o lançamento do concurso internacional foi efectuado em Novembro 2012,
tendo o prazo sido prorrogado por mais 30 dias devido a mudança de Governo.
Por último, é importante ressaltar que, para a implementação do projecto CAB2 foi necessário
haver uma estreita colaboração entre as várias partes envolvidas, nomeadamente consultores,
técnicos e especialistas nas diversas áreas e foi igualmente imprescindível o cumprimento e a
elaboração dos diversos documentos orientadores do projecto, tais como o Acordo de
Financiamento N.º H-642-ST assinado entre o Governo e o Banco Mundial, o Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), os relatórios trimestrais de supervisão financeira (RSF) elaborados pela AFAP,
os relatórios anuais das auditorias externas, os Planos de Aquisições e os Aide-Mémoires.


4. Principais Resultados Alcançados
Relativamente aos resultados esperados e efectivamente alcançados, a 7 de Fevereiro de 2013, foi
lançado no mercado santomense a oferta comercial de fibra óptica. Os resultados foram muito
satisfatórios, considerando que através de satélite, a capacidade de tráfego de internet era de
50Mbps e actualmente com o cabo a capacidade passou a ser de 4.500Mbps, estando já instalados
pela CST 775Mbps.
Prevê-se ainda que este valor aumente de 775 Mbps para 1,085Mbps com a instalação de mais 2
STM-1, ou seja, com o cabo submarino ACE, está a ser utilizada 15 vezes mais capacidade do que
era utilizada antes do cabo chegar, prevendo-se que este valor aumente até 20 vezes nos primeiros
dois anos após a adesão de São Tomé e Príncipe ao cabo submarino.
Outrossim é o facto de, com a adesão ao sistema de cabo submarino, os preços médios de acesso
à internet, em termos gerais, terem baixado significativamente.
Relativamente aos dados apresentados pela CST, com a adesão ao cabo ACE, as ofertas mais
baixas em ADSL passaram a ter velocidades 8 vezes superiores, os preços foram reduzidos em
aproximadamente 50% e o limite de tráfego foi triplicado, de 4Gb para 12Gb. Nas ofertas mais
altas, a velocidade passou de 2Mbps para 100 Mbps (50 vezes superior), os custos baixaram
significativamente e o tráfego máximo passou de 40 Gb a ilimitado, com os serviços de fibra óptica.



                                                50
Outras vantagens apontadas pela CST com a adesão ao cabo submarino são o serviço 3G, que
entrou em funcionamento, e o lançamento da banda larga móvel pré-paga, com um custo
aproximado de 8 Euros/1 Gb. As ofertas de serviço melhoraram e consequentemente a procura
aumentou. A CST passou assim de 600/700 clientes para um total de 5,300 clientes em ADSL,
fibra e banda larga móvel.
No que se refere à Região Autónoma do Príncipe, houve um acordo com as autoridades locais no
sentido de haver um upgrade da actual ligação por Feixe Hertziano da CST para 250 Mbps de
capacidade. A referida operadora efectuou este investimento adicional e os trabalhos estão em
curso.
A amortização do investimento efectuado pela CST no cabo ACE terá um impacto muito grande
nas contas da empresa e espera-se resultados líquidos negativos para 2015, pese embora, no geral,
os resultados da adesão ao cabo ACE serem benéficos para o país.
Quanto ao concurso internacional para a atribuição de licença a uma segunda operadora, a
UNITEL Holding Internacional foi a única concorrente e a UNITEL STP, empresa criada no
âmbito do concurso, foi quem obteve a licença, em Abril 2013.
Conforme foi referido anteriormente no ponto 3, a UNITEL STP detém actualmente 25,4999997%
da participação na STP Cabo, conjuntamente com a CST e com o Governo.
Houve, contudo, um ligeiro atraso no arranque desta operadora em São Tomé e Príncipe, devido a
factores de diversas ordens.
Contudo, a UNITEL STP, não tendo completado ainda um ano de presença no mercado são-
tomense, considera que a sua entrada já demonstra resultados positivos, tendo-se verificado uma
clara expansão da sua rede de vendas por todo o país e a conquista, antes de 31 de Dezembro de
2014, de mais de 10% da quota de mercado.
Tal feito é justificado pelos preços actualmente praticados nos serviços de voz e de dados.
Quanto ao serviço de voz, a UNITEL STP começou com um pacote base de pré-pago de 0.10
Euros/minuto, similar ao oferecido pela CST (tarifário leve-leve), com a diferença de que a
UNITEL STP mantém os mesmos preços de chamadas para ligações na sua rede e fora da rede, ao
passo que a CST cobra as chamadas efectuadas para fora da rede a um preço por minuto 70% mais
elevado. A UNITEL STP oferece ainda chamadas internacionais ligeiramente mais económicas.
Em termos estatísticos, A UNITEL STP estima que 65% dos seus clientes seja em serviço de dados
e 35% em serviço de voz.



                                                51
Acrescente-se que esta operadora já tem cobertura em todo o país, incluindo Ilhéu das Rolas e
Região Autónoma do Príncipe, onde, de momento, tem um agente exclusivo.
De modo a impedir o corte dos serviços caso ocorra alguma anomalia com o funcionamento do
cabo ACE, a UNITEL STP já estabeleceu, com outro parceiro, uma garantia de redundância via
satélite.
Relativamente a solução por cabo submarino na Região Autónoma do Príncipe, nada ficou
estabelecido com o actual Governo.
Contudo, com as actuais melhorias que têm sido feitas nas comunicações para o Príncipe, quer
pela CST, quer pela UNITEL STP, espera-se que até ao primeiro trimestre de 2015 a capacidade
passe a ser de 600Mbps.
Em suma, com a adesão ao cabo ACE e com a entrada da UNITEL STP no mercado das
telecomunicações, registou-se um maior dinamismo do mercado, com ofertas melhores e mais
baratas e maior diversidade de pacotes. O serviço prestado ao cliente melhorou significativamente,
com o reforço das redes de distribuição e venda de recargas. Acrescente-se que o serviço móvel já
tem uma cobertura muito satisfatória, e as operadoras estão agora a investir na expansão da rede
interna por fibra, para melhor poderem tirar partido da chegada do cabo ACE.
No âmbito dos investimentos efectuados pelo Banco Mundial e pelo sector privado no Projecto
CAB2, foram realizadas auditorias anuais às contas do projecto e os relatórios dos auditores
apresentaram resultados muito positivos, não fazendo menção a nenhuma irregularidade quanto a
execução técnica e/ou financeira do projecto, tendo-se concluído que foram aplicados
correctamente os normativos do Banco Mundial.
Do montante patrocinado pela CST e pela PT, foram desembolsados o equivalente a 11,9 milhões
de USD, correspondendo a uma taxa de realização financeira de 100%. O desembolso serviu
exclusivamente para cobrir a participação no Consórcio ACE.
Dos 14,9 milhões de USD patrocinados pelo Banco Mundial ao projecto CAB2, foram
desembolsados, até ao momento, aproximadamente 98,66%. Estima-se que o restante valor seja
continuamente desembolsado até ao final do primeiro trimestre de 2015, período em que se prevê
a finalização de todos os pagamentos de trabalhos referentes ao projecto.
Acrescente-se que, foi realizada no dia 14 de Junho de 2013 uma revisão do meio percurso do
projecto entre o Governo e o Banco Mundial com o objectivo de verificar se os objectivos traçados




                                               52
foram sendo cumpridos de forma satisfatória. Esta revisão estava prevista no Acordo de Donativo
do Banco Mundial, já mencionado anteriormente.
Foi nesta revisão de meio percurso que se constatou que, devido as alterações cambiais, o valor do
desembolso do Banco Mundial seria equivalente a 15,7 milhões de USD, o que representaria uma
taxa de realização financeira na ordem dos 105%, conforme foi referido no ponto 2.
Assim, pelo facto de os objectivos, em termos financeiros, terem sido alcançados de forma
satisfatória, ficou decidido pelas partes realizar outras actividades complementares antes do
término do projecto.
Estas actividades seriam patrocinadas pelos recursos financeiros remanescentes do Projecto CAB2,
cerca de 200 mil USD, e pelo comprometimento do Governo aquando da preparação do projecto
CAB2, de reinvestir no sector parte dos fundos obtidos com a atribuição da segunda licença e
venda das acções na STP Cabo, cerca de 2 milhões de USD.
Tendo por base os princípios de sustentabilidade, contestabilidade e parceria com o sector privado
ou afins, foram seleccionados os seguintes projectos, por ordem de prioridade:
a) Integração das TIC nas escolas secundárias, (cerca de USD 310.000), financiado pelos fundos
do projecto CAB2;
c) Pontos de acesso partilhado para a população – Telecentros, (90.000 USD) e;
d) Compra de Tabletes para estudantes e professores (1.700.000 USD).
Os dois últimos projectos, que ainda não se concretizaram, seriam financiados com fundos do
Governo gerados da venda das acções na STP Cabo à UNITEL STP.
Dos projectos propostos, apenas a integração das TIC nas escolas secundárias já se encontra em
execução. A CST ganhou o concurso para a implementação deste projecto e as actividades
preparatórias tiveram início a 14 de Julho de 2014. Todos os equipamentos já foram instalados e
actualmente o projecto encontra-se em fase de recepção nas diversas escolas secundárias. Estima-
se que o projecto esteja concluído a 31 de Dezembro de 2014 e durante os próximos 5 anos, estas
escolas terão acesso gratuito ao sistema de internet.
Para além dos três projectos acima referidos, surgiram ainda outras propostas que acabaram por
não ser implementadas nem ganhar consistência no âmbito do projecto CAB2.
No que se refere à reforma do quadro jurídico e regulamentar para o sector das telecomunicações
(TIC), pretendeu-se dar assistência à AGER do modo a assegurar que fossem regulamentadas
questões ligadas ao acesso aberto às infraestruturas e à capacidade do cabo, nomeadamente partilha



                                                 53
de infraestruturas, processo e modelos que possam reger o estabelecimento de taxas de interligação
entre operadores, entre outros.
Contudo, é agora necessário oficializar os vários diplomas preparados, designadamente o Decreto
sobre interligação apresentado ao Ministério das Obras Públicas e aprovado em Conselho de
Ministros e a Lei de Bases de Telecomunicações, também apresentado ao Ministério das Obras
Públicas e aprovado em Conselho de Ministros. A Lei de Bases de Telecomunicações ainda não
foi aprovada pela Assembleia Nacional nem Promulgada pela Presidência da República, mas
espera-se que ambos os Diplomas ainda possam ser publicados no Diário da República no decorrer
do ano 2015.
Quanto a elaboração de uma estratégia nacional para as TIC, foram realizadas várias consultas
com os Ministérios, AGER, CST, INIC, SIDONIA, Finanças, ONG, dentre outros, e foi decidido
que a estratégia deveria também incluir uma descrição sobre a estrutura institucional do sector,
com o papel das várias instituições envolvidas. As alterações necessárias foram feitas e o texto
final da estratégia foi entregue ao Secretário-Geral do antigo Governo, mas ainda não foi aprovada.
Espera-se que este também seja aprovado em 2015.
De resto, todas as actividades inscritas nos Planos de Actividades do projecto CAB2 e previstas
para terminar a 31 de Dezembro de 2014, foram implementadas dentro do prazo previsto,
correspondendo a uma taxa de realização física de 100% do programado.
Por elaborar encontra-se apenas a auditoria anual externa às contas da AFAP, referente ao ano
2014, a qual terá o seu início nos primeiros meses do ano 2015. A contratação do consultor
encontra-se em curso e deverá estar concluída até 31 de Dezembro de 2014.


5. Avaliação dos Resultados, dos Riscos e dos Intervenientes no
   Projecto

Segundo os Critérios de Avaliação Harmonizado para ICR e IEG, a avaliação geral dos resultados
do projecto é satisfatória e, por outro lado, os riscos no resultado do desenvolvimento são, de um
modo geral, insignificantes.
Contudo, um dos principais riscos do projecto prende-se com a assistência adicional à AGER
quanto ao Dossier Sexline, pelo facto desta questão ainda não estar resolvida, o que influencia
negativamente a conectividade de São Tomé e Príncipe ao mundo.


                                                54
Sintetizando, de um modo geral, os principais resultados alcançados, veja-se o quadro que se segue
com os principais objectivos do projecto:
     PRINCIPAIS OBJECTIVOS DO                                  AVALIAÇÃO
                   PROJECTO
 ADESÃO AO CABO SUBMARINO ACE:
 a) Redução dos custos das comunicações                                     Muito satisfatória
    de dados
 b) Redução dos custos das comunicações                                     Muito satisfatória
    de voz
 c) Aumento do alcance geográfico dos                                       Muito satisfatória
    serviços de voz e de dados
 ATRIBUIÇÃO DA 2ª LICENÇA À UNITEL                                          Muito satisfatória
 STP
 OUTRAS ACTIVIDADES:
 a) Desenvolvimento de uma estratégia                                       Pouco satisfatória
    nacional para o sector das TIC
 b) Assistência à AGER em aspectos legais                                           Satisfatória
    e regulamentares
 c) Assistência sobre o Acesso Universal                                            Satisfatória
    (FSU)
 d) Ligação da Internet às escolas                                          Muito satisfatória
    secundárias


A avaliação da estratégia nacional para o sector das TIC foi considerada pouco satisfatória, devido
ao facto das alterações necessárias, apresentadas ao antigo Governo, ainda não terem sido
aprovadas.
Ainda relativamente aos resultados alcançados, o Governo avaliou também a evolução dos
principais indicadores do projecto, no período compreendido entre 2010 e 2014, os quais
evoluíram, no geral, de forma muito satisfatória:
 PRINCIPAIS             2010     2011          2012          2013          2014          AVALIAÇÃO
 INDICADORES
 Tráfego                51Mbps   314Mbps       309Mbps       1898Mbps      3732Mbps      Muito
 internacional de                (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Jun. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)   Satisfatório
 Internet
 Acesso aos               0.7%     0.7%          0.7%          0.7%          0.7%        Moderadamente
 serviços de internet            (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Jun. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)   Satisfatório
 (%)



                                                 55
 Acesso aos             67%          74%           75%           76%           79%        Muito
 serviços de                      (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Jun. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)   Satisfatório
 telefone fixo e
 móvel (%)
 Acesso aos             63%          69%           72%           71%           75%        Muito
 serviços de                      (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Jun. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)   Satisfatório
 telefone móvel (%)
 Preço médio das       $ 9.000     $ 9.000        $ 9.000      $ 2.500       $ 2.500      Muito
 comunicações                     (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Jun. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)   Satisfatório
 internacionais
 (Europa) ($)
 Nº de beneficiários   113.900     125.800        130.500      132.301       138.098      Muito
 directos do           (50.5%)     (50.5%)        (50.5%)      (50.5%)       (50.5%)      Satisfatório
 projecto (% de                   (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Dez. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)
 mulheres)
 Impacto da             Nota: 5    Nota:5         Nota:5       Nota:5        Nota:5       Muito
 assistência técnica   (Impacto   (Impacto       (Impacto     (Impacto      (Impacto      Satisfatório
 do Banco Mundial      elevado)   elevado)       elevado)     elevado)      elevado)
 no sector das                    (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Dez. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)
 telecomunicações
 Preço máximo           $ 0.42      $ 0.40         $ 0.40       $ 0.40        $ 0.40      Satisfatório
 cobrado por três                 (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Dez. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)
 minutos de
 comunicação
 móvel ($)
 Número de               0%          0%            100%         100%          100%        Muito
 operadoras com                   (Jul. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Dez. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)   Satisfatório
 acesso ao cabo
 ACE (%)
 Preço dos serviços    $852/mês   $409.5/mês    $409.5/mês     $52/mês        $52/mês     Muito
 de internet ($/mês)              (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Dez. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)   Satisfatório
 Localidades com        56%          56%           70%           70%           80%        Satisfatório
 acesso a Internet                (Dez. 2011)   (Dez. 2012)   (Dez. 2013)   (Jun. 2014)
 de banda larga
 móvel (%)


Tal como demonstrado no quadro acima, durante estes quatro anos, a capacidade de tráfego
internacional de internet evoluiu de forma muito satisfatória, assim como também aumentou
consideravelmente o número de pessoas com acesso aos serviços de telefone fixo e móvel.
O preço médio das comunicações internacionais para a Europa diminuiu para menos de metade,
comparativamente com o preço praticado em 2010 e diminuíram de igual modo os preços cobrados
pelas operadoras pela utilização dos serviços de internet.
O número de beneficiários directos do projecto sofreu também um aumento significativo; contudo,
existem dois indicadores que se mantiveram inalterados ao longo dos 4 anos: o número de pessoas
com acesso à internet e o preço máximo cobrado por três minutos de comunicação móvel. A CST
justificou que os dados relativos ao número de pessoas com acesso à internet não incluíram as
pessoas com acesso a internet móvel, pelo que a percentagem referida acima é justificada apenas


                                                   56
pela utilização de internet fixa. Para além disso, a CST oferece certos pacotes com preços de
chamadas móveis consideravelmente mais baixos (um exemplo é o serviço “Moche”),
compensando assim o facto do custo das chamadas móveis, no geral, não ter diminuído.
No âmbito deste projecto, das 23 localidades previstas para ter acesso a internet de banda larga
móvel, apenas duas, Monte Mário e Ribeira Peixe, ainda não têm acesso a este serviço e deverão,
numa primeira fase, ter acesso ao serviço 2G.
Acrescente-se ainda que o apoio técnico do Banco Mundial, através deste projecto, teve um
impacto muito grande no sector das telecomunicações em São Tomé e Príncipe.
Relativamente ao desempenho dos principais agentes envolvidos no projecto CAB2,
nomeadamente Banco Mundial, Governo e AFAP, em termos gerais, a avaliação feita pelo
Governo ao longo do decurso de todo o projecto é a seguinte:
   1. Banco Mundial

           Garantir a qualidade desde o início – Muito satisfatório; não houve deficiências na
            identificação, preparação ou avaliação do projecto.

           Qualidade de supervisão – Muito satisfatório; não houve deficiências na identificação
            proactiva de oportunidades e de resolução de ameaças.
           Classificação do desempenho global do Banco – Muito satisfatório em ambas as
            dimensões.

Em termos mais específicos, o Governo entende que o Banco Mundial desempenhou um papel
fundamental na implementação do Projecto CAB 2, em todas as suas vertentes. Os desembolsos
dos fundos foram feitos da melhor forma possível e sempre de acordo com as necessidades do
projecto; o acompanhamento das actividades foi sempre constante de modo a garantir a sua
concretização. Os técnicos e profissionais disponibilizados cumpriram na íntegra todas as tarefas
a que estavam adstritos, demonstrando sempre grande qualidade e profissionalismo. Todos os
documentos elaborados no âmbito do projecto foram elucidativos e ajudaram na sua
implementação.
A equipa de implementação atribui como um dos factores de sucesso, a valiosa colaboração e
assistência prestadas pela equipa do Banco Mundial ao longo de todas as etapas de existência do
projecto.
   2. Desempenho do Beneficiário


                                                57
           Desempenho do Governo – Muito satisfatório; não houve bloqueios no seu
            desempenho.
           Desempenho da AFAP – Altamente satisfatório; não houve deficiências no seu
            desempenho.
           Desempenho global do Beneficiário – Muito satisfatório em ambas as dimensões.




6. Conclusões e Recomendações
Em termos gerais, a colaboração institucional do Governo com os vários agentes, nomeadamente
Banco Mundial, Autoridade Geral de Regulação (AGER), os operadores CST e UNITEL STP, os
consultores, a AFAP e outras instituições ligadas directa ou indirectamente ao projecto foi muito
satisfatória.
Verificou-se uma incontestável e evidente melhoria da conectividade em São Tomé e Príncipe. A
adesão ao cabo submarino ACE e a sua entrada em funcionamento contribuiu significativamente
para a melhoria dos serviços de voz e de internet no país, de tal modo que São Tomé já se encontra
ao nível dos restantes países beneficiários dos serviços por cabo.
Com a atribuição da segunda licença à Companhia de Telecomunicações UNITEL STP, houve um
aumento da oferta dos serviços de telecomunicações e uma melhoria dos serviços prestados e dos
preços praticados por ambas operadoras ainda antes de 2015, conforme era esperado.
É interessante reiterar que as próprias infraestruturas de acesso interno sofreram melhorias, como
por exemplo a comercialização de bandas largas móveis e a utilização do sistema de fibra óptica,
conforme já foi referido anteriormente. No entanto, é necessário continuar a melhorar a qualidade
dos serviços prestados e a adaptar os preços de mercado.
No que se refere ao quarto segmento do cabo ACE, é de extrema importância que o mesmo seja
implementado e que seja garantido um sistema de restauro do cabo submarino ACE a partir de S.
Tomé, de modo a que a operacionalidade do projecto não seja posta em causa. Contudo, toda a
infraestrutura de amarração do segmento 4 (Beach Man Hole, sala de equipamentos, energia e ar
condicionado) já se encontra disponível, sendo apenas necessário construir as condutas do
segmento terrestre em relação à qual o traçado já foi projectado.
Por outro lado, ainda existem condicionantes que podem limitar o impacto do serviço de cabo
submarino ACE e da entrada do segundo operador, as quais ainda precisam ser devidamente


                                                58
ponderadas e resolvidas, nomeadamente: o dossier “sexline” que dificulta as chamadas do exterior
para São Tomé e Príncipe; o contrato assinado entre a AGER e uma empresa para uma “exclusive
international gateway”; a situação da gestão do domínio ICANN e da divulgação do domínio “.st”
e; os procedimentos e requisitos exigidos para a atribuição de licenças para ISPs.
De acordo com as informações prestadas pela AGER, todas estas situações se manterão inalteradas
até 31 de Dezembro de 2014, apesar de já se terem iniciado as negociações no sentido de se chegar
a uma rápida resolução, conjuntamente com o Governo e com as partes envolvidas. Espera-se,
assim, que as soluções sejam alcançadas no decorrer do ano 2015.
Ademais, segundo a AGER, com a adesão ao cabo ACE será mais fácil reduzir as tarifas aplicadas
no âmbito das telecomunicações, comparativamente com a época em que se dispunha apenas dos
serviços por satélite. A única desvantagem que poderá eventualmente advir é a “invasão” dos
crackers da internet e a solução passará pela adopção de uma Lei que regule os crimes na Internet,
de forma a proteger também as operadoras.
Finalizando, acrescente-se que, de acordo com as orientações de encerramento do projecto, todos
os bens, serviços e obras devem estar concluídos até a data de fecho – 31 de Dezembro de 2014, e
o pagamento deve ser realizado no período compreendido entre Janeiro e Abril de 2015. A AFAP
deverá adoptar todas as medidas necessárias para garantir que todos os novos compromissos
financeiros sejam assumidos atendendo a data de fecho e aos fundos disponíveis.




                                                59
60
