                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No ICR00001283



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
             (Credit No.IDA34471, IDA34470-Trust Fund No.:TF26226)



                                     ON A

                                   CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$85 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA

                                    FOR A

                COMMUNITY BASED POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT




                               November 30, 2009



Social Protection
West Africa 2 (AFCW2)
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2009)

                               Currency Unit = Naira
                             Naira 1.00 = US$.00903342
                               US$1.00 = 110.7Naira

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1- December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      African Development Bank
APL       Adjustable Program Loan
CBI       Community-Based Initiative
CBO       Community-Based Organization
CDD       Community-Driven Development
CPRP      Community Poverty Reduction Project
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DHS       Demographic and Health Survey
DO        Development Objective
EA        Environmental Assessment
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMOF      Federal Ministry of Finance
FMS       Financial Management Systems
HIV/AID   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICRR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEC       Information Education, Communication
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LGA       Local Government Area
LEEMP     Local Empowerment and Environmental Management
MDAs      Ministries and Development Agencies
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
MTR       Mid Term Review
NEEDS     National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NPC       National Planning Commission
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAPDC     Poverty Alleviation Program Development Community
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QEA       Quality at Entry
QSA       Quality of Supervision
TF        Trust Fund
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Emergency Fund

                           Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                           Country Director: Onno Ruhl
                           Sector Manager: Lynne Sherburne-Benz
                           Project Team Leader: Foluso Okunmadewa
                           ICRR Primary Author: Sati Achath




                                           ii
                                     NIGERIA
                    COMMUNITY-BASED POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT




                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 24
Annex 1.     Project Costs and Financing........................................................................ 26
Annex 2.     Outputs by Component................................................................................ 27
Annex 3.     Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................... 28
Annex 4.     Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........... 32
Annex 5.     Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................... 35
Annex 6.           Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 55
Annex 7.           Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICRR ................ 60
Annex 8.           List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 74




MAP (No. NIR33458)




                                                             iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Community Based
Country:                Nigeria                 Project Name:             Poverty Reduction
                                                                          Project
                                                                          IDA-34470,IDA-
Project ID:             P069086                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          34471,TF-26226
ICR Date:               12/10/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          NIGERIA
Original Total
                        XDR 47.0M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 63.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 63.6M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Federal Ministry of Finance
 State Community and Social Development Agencies
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/10/2000     Effectiveness:             09/28/2001        09/28/2001
Appraisal:            06/26/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/20/2000     Mid-term Review:                             10/07/2004
                                     Closing:                   02/28/2006        03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                   6                     6
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 23                   23
Other social services                                                 24                   24
Primary education                                                     23                   23
Roads and highways                                                    24                   24


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                                13                   13
Improving labor markets                                               13                   13
Other social protection and risk management                           24                   24
Participation and civic engagement                                    25                   25
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                             25                   25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Onno Ruhl                            Mark D. Tomlinson
Sector Manager:            Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz              Rosemary T. Bellew
Project Team Leader:       Foluso Okunmadewa                    John A. Elder
ICR Team Leader:           Foluso Okunmadewa
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve access of the poor to social and economic infrastructure and increase the
availability and management of development resources at the community level.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval            Target       Completion or
                                             documents)           Values        Target Years
                Increased number of poor (by gender) with access to social and economic
Indicator 1 :
                infrastructure.
                                                              Improved
                                                              access to
                                         Improved access                     Improved access to
                                                              social and
                                         to social and                       social and
                                                              economic
Value           Poor State of Social and economic                            economic
                                                              infrastructure
quantitative or economic infrastructure infrastructure in                    infrastructure in
                                                              in 2000
Qualitative)    and limited access       1800 communities                    3085 communities
                                                              communities
                                         and serving at least                serving 70%
                                                              and serving at
                                         70% women.                          women
                                                              least 70%
                                                              women.
Date achieved 01/01/2002                 08/31/2006           12/31/2008     03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Satisfactory
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Amount of funds controlled at community level in Project States.
Value
quantitative or None                     $55m                 $60            $59.83
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2002                 08/31/2006           12/31/2008     03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        On Target
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                              Revised
                                             approval                        Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of micro-projects operational and maintained one year after completion.



                                              iii
Value
                                                1200               2200
(quantitative     None                                                           2999 microprojects
                                                microprojects      microprojects
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2002                    08/31/2006         12/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Satisfactory
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of communities where services have improved.
Value
(quantitative     0                             1000               1200          3000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2002                    08/31/2006         12/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Exceeded target
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     NEW - Health Centers built or rehabilitated (number)
Value
(quantitative     0                             100                200           255
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2002                    08/31/2006         12/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Satisfactory
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     NEW - Classrooms built and/or rehabilitated (number)
Value
(quantitative     0                             1000               2500          3689
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2002                    08/31/2006         12/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Satisfactory
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     NEW - Students enrolled in primary education (number of girls and boys)
Value                                                         40% increase
                                           20% increase for                 60% increase for
(quantitative     N.A.                                        for boys and
                                           boys and girls                   boys and girls
or Qualitative)                                               girls
Date achieved     01/01/2002               08/31/2006         12/31/2008    03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Highly satisfactory
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     01/25/2001               Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     08/07/2001               Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00



                                                      iv
  3    12/27/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory        3.86
  4    05/16/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory        4.64
  5    12/03/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory        5.54
  6    06/10/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory        7.76
  7    12/10/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       12.12
  8    05/25/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       17.47
  9    11/08/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       26.19
 10    05/16/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       39.74
 11    12/19/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       61.40
 12    06/29/2006         Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory   67.97
 13    03/01/2007         Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory   67.97
 14    07/13/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       73.22
 15    12/19/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       81.23
 16    06/20/2008         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       89.13
 17    08/31/2008         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       92.63
 18    12/22/2008         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       93.65
 19    06/15/2009         Satisfactory          Satisfactory       93.99


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
Context at Appraisal

   1.   Country and Sector Background: At the time of project appraisal, Nigeria was the most
        populous country in Sub-Saharan Africa, with a population of around 102 million people. It
        accounted for 52% of West Africa's population. Nigeria was, and continues to be, highly
        dependent on oil although the majority of its people are involved in and dependent on the
        agricultural sector.

   2.   By the turn of the century, poverty had become an alarming problem in Nigeria. While
        there had been periods of positive economic growth, especially in the 1990s, this growth
        had not been inclusive. Poverty rates increased alarmingly from 1980 until almost two-
        thirds of Nigerians lived below the poverty line. Analyses done by the Federal Office of
        Statistics in Nigeria showed that while poverty levels stood at 27 percent in 1980, they rose
        to 46 percent by 1985. After a modest decline to 43 percent by 1992, poverty rose sharply
        to 66 percent by 1996 (the most recent national survey data available). Extreme poverty
        had also increased significantly: between 1980 and 1996, the proportion in extreme
        poverty rose from 6 percent to 29 percent. In other words, 67 million Nigerians remained
        below the poverty line and 30 million were extremely poor. These trends were reflected
        throughout the country: while poverty was more prevalent in rural areas (69 percent), it had
        become a significant problem in urban areas (58 percent) as well.

   3.   In the past, the government had attempted to address this problem by allocating resources
        to a range of programs that had poverty alleviation as one of their objectives. However,
        most of these programs had little impact on the poor. They were sectoral in nature, with
        little attention to targeting, and had often been imposed from above with little, if any,
        commitment/involvement of the communities they were ostensibly attempting to help.

   4.   Rationale for Bank assistance: No Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) had been prepared
        at the time of Appraisal. The project fit with the recommendations of the Interim Nigeria
        Country Strategy Note for the period FY00 -05 to focus on poverty reduction and support
        community-based activities. While the Bank had never lent for poverty alleviation directly
        in Nigeria, it worked closely with the government on poverty assessments policy dialogue
        and the monitoring of poverty. The project was an outgrowth of this continuing dialogue.
        The Bank brought to the project substantial experience in policy development on poverty
        reduction as well as expertise in developing poverty targeted operations (especially using
        social fund mechanisms) in many countries in Africa as well as the rest of the world.

Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

   5.   The objectives of the project were to improve access of the poor to social and economic
        infrastructure and to increase the availability and management of development resources at
        the community level.

Key Indicators were:
   · Increased number of poor with access to social and economic infrastructure
   · Number of microprojects operational and maintained one year after completion



                                                 1
   ·    Increased funding controlled by poor communities

Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

   6.   Neither the project objective nor the indicators were revised.

Main Beneficiaries

   7.   The expected beneficiaries of the project included:
   ·    Poor communities. Better designed projects and project targeting through increased local
        control would ensure increased efficiency in reaching the poor.
   ·    State and local governments. States and Local governments would benefit through
        increased knowledge about and capacity for community-based interventions and would be
        able to target their scarce resources in a more cost-effective manner. The Federal
        Government of Nigeria (FGN) and National Planning Commission (NPC) would benefit
        through an increased capacity for policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation, and
        enhancement of their role as coordinators of the national poverty reduction strategy.

        The experience of different states with implementing community-based activities would
        help the federal government more fully develop its own policies towards community-based
        development.

Original Components (as approved)

   8.   The project consisted of two components as follows:

Component 1: Capacity-building Managed by the National Planning Commission ($3.86
million)

   Poverty reduction policy: design and dissemination.
   Resources were made available for institutional strengthening of poverty monitoring and
   project development activities in NPC. The role of FGN was to:
   · Finalize, adjust as experience becomes available, and disseminate the policy framework for
       poverty reduction broadly and community-based initiatives (CBI) specifically;
   · Monitor the poverty situation in the country through qualitative and quantitative studies in
       conjunction with the Federal Office of Statistics;
   · Evaluate the impact of interventions under the project and facilitate sharing of international
       experience with states and state experiences across states; and
   · Prepare more focused analytical studies (e.g. linkages between poverty and the labor
       market).

   Advocacy programs.
   Resources were made available to help NPC implement or contract out advocacy for the
   community-driven development approach in all states. Annual program reviews were held to
   examine project progress and proposed future work-programs- HIV/AIDS and Malaria.
   Resources were also made available by the African Development Bank (AfDB) for advocacy
   work concerning HIV/AIDS and Malaria.

   Capacity Building at the State and Local Government Area (LGA level).



                                                  2
   All states were eligible to access resources to carry out the following activities: Capacity
   building and awareness raising on community-driven development for stakeholders and staff at
   community, LGA, and state level;
   · Monitoring of trends in poverty and impact of state programs on poverty using qualitative
       and quantitative techniques;
   · Preparatory work toward establishing community-based initiatives;
   · Preparation of second round states. (The African Development Bank funded the preparation
       costs of the second group of six states joining the community-based initiatives component
       after the project started.)

   Institutional strengthening of NPC.
   Funds were made available for the institutional strengthening of the poverty unit in NPC to
   ensure its capacity to oversee implementation of this component of the project and to monitor
   activities at the state level under the community investment component of the project.

Component 2: Community-based initiatives in basic social and economic infrastructure
($86.23 million)

   Independent state-level social funds were established under the project to provide funding for
   community-initiated activities based on specific selection criteria, including broad-based
   community participation in project selection and a matching contribution from communities.
   The state-level social funds carried out the following activities:
   · Information, education and communication (IEC) campaigns on community-based projects;
   · Support for community identification of needs and priorities (e.g. through contracting out
       of participatory appraisals);
   · Soliciting, appraising, approving, financing, supervising, and evaluating, in collaboration
       with LGAs, microprojects developed and implemented by community-based groups; and
   · Monitoring and evaluation of micro-projects.

   Detailed selection criteria for micro-projects would varied across states depending on the local
   social and institutional assessments. A core set of eligibility criteria for micro-projects to be
   approved included:
   · Evidence of community-led development of the proposal;
   · Technical feasibility;
   · Type of service, to ensure that there would be self-targeting among beneficiaries (activities
       are among primary needs of poor populations);
   · Fit with LGA and state plans (e.g., no duplication of effort with other state or LGA
       projects),
   · Availability of community contributions (in cash, labor or materials) and appropriate
       arrangements for sustainability (maintenance plans, funding for recurrent costs, etc.).

Revised Components

   9.    The components were not revised.

Other significant changes

   10.   There were no changes in the project's design or scope. However, there were changes in the
         project's schedule, funding allocation, and implementation arrangements as mentioned



                                                 3
          below. In addition, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended twice and a
          supplemental credit of $ 25 million was added to the project.

    11.   Project Schedule. The scheduling of the project was revised three times for a period of
          more than two years. The closing date of the project was extended first by six months from
          February 28, 2006 to August 31, 2006, to accommodate the addition of two states (Kwara
          and Ebonyi) into the pilot. It was extended for a second time from August 2006 to
          December 31, 2008 to accommodate and disburse a Supplemental Credit. The third
          extension for a three- month period, to March 31, 2009, was to ensure: (i) the completion of
          a Project Impact Evaluation Exercise under the project in the territory of the eight project
          States, and (ii) completion of a number of microprojects.

    12.   Reallocation: In July 2008 the credit amount was reallocated among categories, with the
          following effect:
    ·     A reduction of 743,464 SDR in total allocation to goods in all States and the Federal
          Territory, with Ebonyi and Kwara having the greater reduction ­ given the needs of the
          State Agencies and the period remaining for project closure.
    ·     An increased allocation of up to 1.6 million SDR to consultancies, training and audits, to
          ensure more training, monitoring, and support to Community Project Management
          Committees in the final implementation stage, as well as maintenance of community
          projects. A comprehensive Impact Evaluation of the Project was also funded from this
          category. Abia, with a high number of established microprojects, had the highest increase
          in allocation of this category.
    ·     A reduction of about 500,000 SDR in total allocation to grants, mainly due to the
          reallocation by Abia State of its allocation from grants to community training and
          microproject maintenance.
    ·     A reduction of an unused 400,969 SDR in total allocation to Operating Costs as the project
          reached the final stage of implementation.

    13.   Amendments: The DCA was amended first in May 2005 in order to bring the following
          changes:
    ·     Addition of two new states, Ebonyi and Kwara, as eligible to receive project funds. The
          original DCA had listed six states in the first phase as potentially eligible to receive project
          funds. Of the six states listed in the second phase, two of them were to receive funding
          from the World Bank and four from AfDB funding. Based on changes made by the
          government, these two states were added after they met the eligibility criteria.

    ·     Increasing the disbursement percentages of the categories of expenditures in Schedule 1 to
          100%, including financing of taxes based on the newly approved Country Financing
          Parameters (CFP) for Nigeria.

Implementation Arrangements The DCA was again amended in August 2007 to change the
coordinating unit of the project from NPC to the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMOF). The NPC
component actually lagged behind, partially due to a rapid turnover of staff, management
deficiencies in the project implementation unit, and administrative delays in the approval process.
Poor communication and coordination with State Agencies on joint or supportive activities also led
to some delays. As project implementation progressed, it became apparent that there was conflict
between NPC's mandate to provide policy guidance to government activities at all levels and its
role of coordinating the implementation and monitoring of a project. To ensure that overall
coordination, monitoring, evaluation and reporting of project performance was adequately



                                                     4
undertaken, the coordination role was transferred to the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMOF), a
central agency considered well suited for the task, after the project's additional financing. The
capacity built within NPC between 2002 and 2007 was quite useful in design of government policy
on community driven development and overall government strategy on poverty reduction as
currently encapsulated in the Vision 20 2020 document, The document, which is the government
long term development agenda envision to make the country one of the top 20 economy by the year
2020, was developed in 2009 and included the community driven development strategy as a
veritable mechanism for poverty reduction in the country.

   14.   A Supplemental Credit in the amount of SDR 16.7 million (US$25 million equivalent) was
         approved by the Bank's Board on February 1, 2007. The Credit Amendment Agreement for
         this additional financing was signed on February 19, 2007, and became effective on May 8,
         2007.

   15.   The additional financing was requested to cover the costs associated with a financing gap
         for microprojects that had been started and were already anticipated by the poor
         communities. The additional financing of US$25 million to the participating States to
         complete the revised project activities would therefore: (i) ensure that all microprojects
         were completed at the close of the project, (ii) increase the project's impact and
         development effectiveness, and (iii) serve as a bridging fund ­ pending the commencement
         of the National Community Driven Development Program (National CDD) as a follow-on
         to the CPRP.

   16.   After the MOF took over the coordination of the project from NPC subsequent to the
         additional financing agreement, project activities moved faster and there was also
         significant improvement in terms of coordination and M&E. The extra demands for
         microprojects from communities were also satisfied. Further, an Impact Assessment was
         also successfully conducted. Overall, the objectives of additional financing were fulfilled.

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

   17.   Project Background. The project was a social fund, which focused on poverty alleviation
         in 12 States of Nigeria. The Bank supported eight states (Abia, Cross River, Ebonyi, Ekiti,
         Kwara, Kebbi, Kogi, and Yobe), and the AfDB financed four States. The nature of the
         collaboration was that both the Bank-supported States and the AfDB-supported States used
         the same operational processes and were supervised by NPC for most of the project. After
         the additional financing in May 2007, the MOF took over the coordination of the Bank-
         assisted States. This ICRR covers only the Bank-supported States.

   18.   The project used both geographical and poverty-score ranking as targeting mechanisms in
         the selection of the 12 states to benefit from the project. The two poorest states (based on
         the Bureau of Statistics' poverty data) from each of the six geopolitical zones of the country
         were selected for the CPRP. The poorest communities in each state, chosen on the basis of
         rough state level poverty data, then produced proposals on microprojects that suited their
         needs and met the eligibility list/criteria of the State Agency. After the first three years
         State Agencies produced poverty maps based on more objective welfare indicators. The
         poorest communities based on the maps were then targeted for sensitization and




                                                   5
      mobilization drives on the CPRP. Proposals were then solicited from such communities.
      Microprojects were thus both geographically and self-targeted.

19.   When the project was designed, it was estimated (using standard public service "bills of
      quantities") that the average cost of a microproject would be between 3 and 5 million
      Naira. The number of anticipated microprojects to be implemented was calculated
      accordingly. However, during implementation it was found that the average cost of a
      microproject was between 1 and 2.5 million Naira. This allowed a much larger number of
      microprojects to be implemented. Consequently, while it was anticipated that about 1200
      microprojects would be funded by the project in the original design (revised to 2500 with
      additional financing), in fact 2999 microprojects were completed and still in use at project
      close in March 2009. Furthermore, in response to the prompting of the Bank Task Team,
      some states also contributed more resources than expected.

20.   Lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted projects. During preparation, the project
      team based some of its design decisions on lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted
      projects in the social development sector in Nigeria, Malawi, and Zambia, as well as global
      best practice in social funds. A Bank review of poverty programs in Nigeria showed that
      communities seldom identify with activities that were designed and provided by the
      government. In many cases, community participation was not solicited in either the
      planning or implementation stages. The result was an eventual lack of maintenance and
      low sustainability of the program. Many communities came to view government initiatives
      with a sense of distrust. There was no sense of ownership even though there was a clear
      need for such interventions.

21.   On the other hand, there was evidence that when communities were involved in the design
      and implementation of programs, these were more likely to succeed. In addition,
      communities had shown that they had the potential to contribute and "tax" their members if
      necessary, in order to meet their own needs. For example, some communities were able to
      levy small "taxes" on their members to provide educational scholarships. Others had
      provided furniture and in-kind contributions to repair primary schools. Since many
      communities lacked experience with donor funded community-based activities, procedures
      had to be kept simple to facilitate community implementation.

22.   Considerable analysis was available on what had worked and not worked in social funds.
      Lessons learned included: (i) the importance of administrative autonomy; (ii) close
      coordination with line ministries; (iii) integration into sectoral policies and programs; (iv)
      flexible and simple procurement and disbursement requirements; (v) simple, but rigorous,
      administrative procedures; and (vi) a high level of political support.

23.   A Nigerian team from the Poverty Alleviation Programme Development Committee
      (PAPDC) of the National Planning Commission (NPC) visited the Zambia Social Fund
      Project in 1995 and the Malawi Social Fund Project in 1996 to learn how the social funds in
      those two countries had been designed and implemented. The lessons gathered from these
      visits were used to prepare the government's poverty reduction strategy document, the
      "Community Action Program for Poverty Alleviation" (CAPPA). The strategy document
      emphasized community-initiated, community-designed, community-implemented and
      community-managed interventions. The document also highlighted the facilitating and
      supportive role of local level public institutions and agencies as well as the coordinating
      and monitoring role of central public administration. The role of NGOs and civil society in



                                                 6
      community-based interventions was also clearly detailed in the CAPPA document. The
      CPRP was designed with all these lessons clearly in mind.

24.  Risk Assessment. The design considered the risk factors, and appropriate measures were
     adopted to mitigate all major risks identified at appraisal. The overall risk of the project
     was rated as `High' in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The ICRR team agrees with
     this assessment. Some of the high and substantial risks identified at preparation are
     discussed below, along with an assessment of the evolution of the risks during
     implementation:
·       NPC implementation capacity is weak. Mitigation measures for this high risk included
     capacity-building activities as part of project preparation and throughout implementation.
     Capacity-strengthening activities were also undertaken at the MOF when it became the
     coordinating body pursuant to the provision of additional financing. With these measures in
     place, the Project Implementation Reports reflect improvements in coordination activities
     and in monitoring and evaluation activities. Ability to provide technical backup to state
     level agencies on implementation did not improve significantly.
·       Legal independence for state-level agencies does not provide sufficient operational
     independence. To mitigate this risk, careful supervision and review of microproject
     approval processes was planned. This risk, though initially rated high, was found to be of
     little consequence during implementation of the project. The independence of the State
     Agency, as provided for by the law in their establishment, went a long way in expediting
     actions on microprojects with little bureaucracy. The law gives a high level of operational
     independence to the Agency and this is now becoming a model in other CDD-related
     interventions. The appointment of highly qualified and experienced staff through
     competitive recruitment also assisted in ensuring quality review and supervision of micro-
     projects-both in terms of approval process and implementation by communities.
· States do not remain committed to community-based initiatives. In order to deal with this
substantial risk, the states were to be included in the preparation and supervision processes. The
use of desk officers from line ministries in the preparation and supervision process ensured that
state standards were adhered to by communities in implementing their microprojects. Further,
the use of "Boards" as the representative of government ensured that the states be properly
briefed first hand on the developments of the project. Also, the involvement of state political
office holders in the supervision and in the commission of microprojects engendered
appreciation and commitment of states to the project. Indeed, in some states (Kebbi, Yobe)
additional state funds were released to the agency to implement microprojects using the CPRP
model.
· Pilot activities in project not accepted as models by other federal agencies. To mitigate this
substantial risk, other federal agencies were included in the project preparation/supervision
process, careful documentation of project impact was kept and made available, and results were
disseminated openly. The creation of a Federal Project Steering Committee ensured acceptance
of the CPRP model as a basis for grassroots development. Since the introduction of CPRP, a
number of other interventions have evolved (Fadama II, IFAD Community Based Agriculture
and Rural Development Project, Community based Natural Resources Management Project and
Local Empowerment and Environmental Management Project) among others. Even in the Niger
Delta, the approach to development is tending toward community driven development. Wide
dissemination of activity results (through jingles and paid advertisements and participation in
the First National Conference on Community Development in 2007) has caught the interest of
other agencies of the Federal government.
· Insufficient capacity at State-level to implement program. Measures for mitigating this
substantial risk included capacity-building activities as part of project preparation and



                                              7
    implementation, and use of competitive hiring practices. During implementation, highly
    qualified staff was recruited competitively. Their salaries were competitive with the private
    sector, which served as incentives for good performance. In addition, members of project staff
    received adequate training on different aspects of community driven development. The risk was
    minimal by project end.

    25.   Adequacy of participatory processes. From the start, the project provided a participatory
          framework involving stakeholders and direct beneficiaries in the decision-making
          processes. NGOs participated in stakeholder workshops early in project preparation,
          analyzing what had worked and had not worked in terms of poverty reduction in Nigeria.
          Social and institutional assessments in each of the eight states examined the capacity of
          NGOs and other civil society groups to participate in the project and most of the state
          social funds included the participation of NGOs as active partners in the implementation of
          the project. NGOs that participated in the project were eligible for capacity-building
          activities.

Implementation

    26.   The project was not restructured and it was never at risk. The Bank conducted a Midterm
          Review (MTR) in September-October 2004, and assessed progress to date on all project
          components, the implementation issues, and the actions to be taken to ensure the successful
          completion of the project. The MTR's main objective was to undertake a comprehensive
          performance review of the project, in line with the set development and implementation
          objectives and for : (i) accelerating the pace of project implementation, (ii) ensuring more
          focus on poverty reduction, (iii) ensuring effectiveness and sustainability, and (iv)
          examining possible options for project scale-up in the future. As mentioned in Section 1.7,
          the DCA was amended in 2005 after the MTR to reflect the changes in the Country
          Financing Parameters, agreeing to 100 percent financing in all categories.

    27.   The following factors affected project implementation:

(a) Factors outside government control or implementation agency

A lack of experience on the part of the Borrower in dealing with Bank projects and a lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures, especially on procurement and financial management,
contributed to slow implementation in the early stages of the project.

(b) Factors subject to government control or implementation agency

(i) Project implementation was slow at the outset while the government created a legal institutional
structure through Parliament, and recruited the staff needed for implementation.

(ii) The NPC component lagged behind largely due to a rapid turnover of staff, management
deficiencies in the project implementation unit, and administrative delays in the approval process.
Poor communication and coordination with State Agencies on joint or supportive activities also led
to some delays. The NPC mandate to serve as the policy coordination institution of the government
resulted in unnecessary bureaucracy, which impeded project implementation coordination, technical
support and monitoring and evaluation services to the project.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization


                                                   8
   28.   M&E design. The project's M&E system was not properly or fully designed during project
         preparation. The indicators and the roles and responsibilities of agencies for collecting data
         and reporting them were not clearly spelt out in the M&E design. There was also no
         baseline survey or data. The plan was for each state to prepare its own template for M&E,
         but that made it difficult for the Federal team to summarize the indicators for the
         monitoring report. This shortcoming affected project monitoring.

   29.   M&E implementation. After realizing the shortcomings in the M&E system during
         implementation, the Bank worked with the NPC to put together a standardized template of
         indicators for each level and each component, and agreed with the states on the indicators
         and on how to report them. Once a robust M&E system was in place, in the last 2-3 years of
         implementation, NPC/MOF started collecting data on a regular basis according to the pre-
         determined indicators. These data were closely monitored, and the actual figures were
         compared with the target values. Finally, the impact evaluation was conducted by a
         recognized and competent consulting firm.

   30.   M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected from semi-annual and annual reports of
         indicators was evaluated and used for decision making. The data was used for safeguards
         assessments, financial management reviews, operational choices, planning, and resource
         reallocation decisions. These activities also helped the project get communities to focus on
         maintenance and usage. The impact evaluation report was published and widely
         disseminated throughout the country by the Federal Ministry of Finance.

Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

   31.   Safeguards. The project's safeguards compliance was satisfactory. The project triggered
         the Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) requirement, and an appropriate instrument,
         the Environmental and Social Management Framework was prepared and disclosed country
         wide and in the World Bank Info Shop. In particular, all subcomponents and executed
         microprojects were screened using the safeguard checklist to ensure conformity to the rules
         and social and environmental soundness. The environmental and social management plans
         were budgeted for, well implemented and closely monitored to ensure compliance. As part
         of safeguard due diligence, an environmental audit was conducted with a view to
         evaluating the project's safeguard performance. The report of the environmental audit rated
         the project's overall safeguards compliance to be satisfactory.

   32.   Fiduciary. There were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank fiduciary
         policies and procedures during the implementation of the project.

Post-completion operation/Next Phase

   33.   Transition arrangements. Lessons learned and experience gained from the CPRP have
         been absorbed by the Government and will be implemented in the follow-on project --The
         Community and Social Development Project (CSDP) -- which became effective in April
         2009 and which will ensure the project's future operation. All 12 states from the CPRP (8
         funded by World Bank and 4 funded by AfDB) have moved into the follow-on project, and
         additional states have joined. State governments will be putting their budget resources into
         community-driven interventions, and the skills and knowledge gained from the first project




                                                   9
      (implementation arrangements, linkages with LGA for sustainability, and proper targeting
      of beneficiaries) will be built upon. Among others, some of the lessons include:

Technical. Some design elements have been adopted to minimize financial risks and ensure
sustainability:
· Setting up an autonomous agency to prevent substantial government interference in project
    implementation, allowing for private sector participation in oversight functions, attracting
    high quality staff through the payment of competitive salaries, and ensuring project
    implementation using the CDD approach.
· Institutionalizing the CDD approach at the local level through a bylaw that delineates
    specific roles and responsibilities between the LGA and its communities. This is also to
    ensure sustainability and effective service delivery of the executed microprojects.
· Implementing CSDP only in States that have demonstrated a willingness to adopt the CDD
    approach in formulating development strategies.
· Empowering LGAs, through capacity building and skills training, to develop an active
    involvement with communities and strengthening local governance.
· Planning to concentrate AfDB's financing on community grants.

Institutional.
· At the Federal level, coordination and program support are supervised by the Federal
    Ministry of Finance. Direct implementation is managed by the Federal Project Support Unit
    (FPSU). The FPSU reports to the Federal Ministry of Finance. The FPSU, which is already
    staffed with qualified civil servants competitively selected, has been strengthened.
· At the State level, State Government Agencies, set up by state law in agreement with the
      Funding Agency, are responsible for implementing the state component. The Agencies
      work in collaboration with the Federal agencies, but operate independently.

Sustainability:
· Financial. In line with the Country Financing Parameters, the Bank is financing 100
    percent of most project investment costs, including incremental operational costs. However,
    given the success and popularity of the pilot projects CPRP and Local Empowerment and
    Environmental Management Project (LEEMP), State governments are making budgetary
    contributions in an incremental fashion to the investment, as well as operational costs of the
    CSDP. Upon completion of social and natural resource management microprojects
    contained in their CDPs, additional overhead and maintenance costs associated with these
    infrastructures will be financed by the LGAs and State governments as appropriate.
· Sub-projects. It is expected that most of the communities will be managing the operation
    and maintenance of sub-projects. For the communities that do not yet have the ability to
    manage sub-projects, responsibility for operation and maintenance are being transferred to
    local governments for microprojects such as schools, markets, health centers and water
    systems.

34.   Monitoring and evaluation. The FPSU is supporting an overall results-based monitoring
      and evaluation framework for the CSDP in all project states and across all levels of
      activities. A participatory M&E scheme used in CPRP has been adopted and strengthened.
      Baseline survey will be conducted in all participating communities. A more functional MIS
      will be established in partnership with the State Agencies. Periodic project performance
      reviews coordinated by the FPSU and with active participation of the State Agencies will
      be carried out to feed into the M&E and MIS.


                                             10
    35.   Future Impact Evaluation. A final impact evaluation will be conducted on the CPRP
          activities three years after the project closed, in order to assess the sustainability of the
          project's achievements. This evaluation will dovetail into the MTR of the new CSDP,
          providing good comparators and data.

Assessment of Outcomes
Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

    36.   The objective is still relevant and important to the Nigeria's social and economic
          development. In particular, as the state based/decentralized structure of the project proved
          to be successful, this approach is very relevant, timely and appropriate to the current needs
          of the country's social sector. Nigeria still faces considerable human development
          challenges with very poor human development indicators and high regional disparities. The
          Country's National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS) and the
          Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) have identified the need to continue to focus on
          community empowerment and local level development as a key element of the overall
          strategy for poverty reduction and development in the country. The Empowerment and
          Human Development pillars of both the NEEDS and the CPS recognize the efficacy of
          using the CDD approach as a vehicle for financing social infrastructure across the country
          and for community participation in tackling the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
          The CDD-type interventions are also envisaged to include activities that will enhance the
          voice of communities and their participation in resource allocation decision-making and
          service planning at the local level.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Satisfactory. The CPRP has adequately met its objectives of significantly improving access of the
poor to social and economic facilities throughout the nation. The project surpassed almost all of its
targets: (i) increased number of poor communities with access to social and economic
infrastructure; (ii) a larger than expected number of micro-projects operational and maintained one
year after completion; and (iii) increased funds controlled at community level in project States as
shown in Table 1. Additional targets which include (iv) increased number of students enrolled in
primary education; and (v) health centers built or rehabilitated; and classrooms built and/or
rehabilitated were also met.

                Table 1 ­ Project Development objective Targets and Achievements

          PDO Indicators        Original Target         Revised Target*        Final
                                                                               Achievement
          Number of poor                1800                    2000                 3085
          communities with
          access to social
          and economic
          infrastructure
          Number of micro-              1200                    2200                   2999
          projects
          operational and
          maintained.


                                                     11
                       Investment Funds           $55 million           $60 million         $59.83 million
                       controlled by
                       community groups
                       ($million)
                      *Revised due to Additional Financing

                37.     The total population benefitting directly or indirectly from the projects in the eight project
                         states was 10.3 million, i.e. the residents of the 3085 communities that participated in the
                           project (the data for substantiating the achievements of the project is derived from the
                          Impact Assessment conducted in March 2009 and the final implementation status report
                        published by FMOF in June 2009). A total of 3123 microprojects was approved. Of these,
                            about 3000 micro projects have been completed and are in use as shown in Table 2.




                         Table 2: CPRP Sectoral Distribution of Completed microprojects across the (8) eight
                                                               States
T                            A        C         E        E         K       K        K         Y          T
    C                                 R
M
H
E

W           S

W           T

F               R
        B
E

S

R           E

M               S

C       C

S
A
C


                                                                 12
O
T
Source: Impact Assessment Survey.

         38.   More than 35% of the microprojects were for education infrastructure. Education, water
               supply, health infrastructure, and feeder roads were the priorities of the rural poor
               communities, as shown in the table above. Environment and sanitation microprojects and
               water transportation facilities were less in demand by the rural communities

         39.   The CPRP impacted positively on the social well being and on the income-generating
               capacities of the beneficiary communities as shown in the sections below. The success of
               the project in this regard may be attributable to the way the implementing agencies and the
               communities bought into the project and the commitment and the capacity of the state
               agencies to reach out to the communities at the grassroots level.

     Achievements and Outcome of the Various Types of Microprojects.

         40.   Project achievements and outcomes have been assessed using administrative data,
               secondary data including from state level, and through field work that produced the Impact
               Assessment. Further details are summarized in Annex 5.

     Road, Bridges and Markets

         41.   The roads constructed and rehabilitated under the project, a total of 277 in all states resulted
               in a reduced commuting time within the communities and the associated activities with
               increased transportation led to the development of commercial activities along the routes.
               The average time between four communities in Ebonyi State, for instance, was reduced
               from 75 minutes to 24 minutes because of the road and bridges constructed/rehabilitated
               under the project. The traffic on these roads and bridges increased per day in all eight
               States. `

         42.   Incidence of flooding along the roads and bridges within the 22 sampled communities was
               reduced from an average of approximately 60% before the projects to 20% in all the States
               where roads, bridges and drainage projects were executed. Abia State had a high incidence
               of flooding (90%) that fell drastically to 10% in the communities where
               road/bridge/drainage projects were executed.

         43.   Farm produce marketed in the communities with infrastructure projects, especially markets
               and roads projects, increased from 28% to 68% on average over all.

         44.   Respondents also noted that the infrastructure projects had reduced the incidence of disease
               within the communities because of improved access (roads) to health facilities. An average
               of the 8 States revealed that the participants felt that the incidence of disease was reduced
               from 38% to 21%, due to the new accessibility of health officers to the communities and
               vice-versa.

     Education projects

         45.   More than one-third of total project input went into the education sector. This shows the
               importance accorded to education in all the states. Due to CPRP activities, enrollment


                                                         13
         increased substantially in schools in communities within the eight project states, with a
         corresponding increase in teachers. Seventy five communities with education subprojects
         were studied by the Impact Assessment.

   46.   Enrollment. In these communities, total enrollment in schools increased by 61.2%,
         increasing from 18,124 to 29,575 pupils in the schools supported by the project. Out of the
         11,451 new students, 2,905 were girls, increasing the school girl population by 62.20% or
         7,685 female students.

   47.   Teaching staff strength. Teachers employed as a result of the CPRP increased by 60%, i.e.
         from 822 teachers to 1,368 teachers in the 75 schools sampled.

   48.   Behavioural change. Survey respondents noted that student truancy rate decreased from
         41% to 11% because of the more conducive learning environment. They also stated that
         teachers' motivation increased from 27% to 56% while student motivation rose to 77%
         from an initial 32% prior to the project.

   49.   The role played by the LGAs in the payment of teachers' salaries under the CPRP scheme
         is a success story in the partnership and collaboration of the CPRP and government in the
         development of common interest.

Health Care projects

   50.   With the availability of the clinics supported under the project, health care delivery in the
         beneficiary and non-beneficiary communities increased. Though only about 10% of the
         projects under the CPRP were specific health projects, their effect combined with that of
         the water supply projects (about 30%) and sanitation projects, led to improved health
         conditions in the communities.

   51.   Samples of health facilities supported by the projects in six states were surveyed. In these
         states, total patient attendance increased by over 500% in the course of the project.
         Similarly, in the six states, death from disease was reduced from 256 to 65 in the 10
         facilities.

   52.   The total number of qualified health personnel in all the health units surveyed increased
         from 54 to 126, and the total number of women attending these facilities increased about
         four fold. Records in these health units also indicate a significant drop in infant mortality
         from 177 infants per year to 21 infants per year after the project. There was a decrease in
         the average cost of treatment on average, from N 4,924 to N 1,916 in the six states (One
         State, Abia, noted and increase in cost from 0 to N50)

Water and Sanitation projects

   53.   Thirty-one communities with water projects were sampled. In these communities access to
         sanitary water supply increased from an average of 8.1% of the population to 87.8%. The
         average time taken to collect water was reduced to 16.4 minutes from 95.7 minutes, and the
         incidence of water-borne diseases fell from 1,792 people to 469 people per year in the
         participating communities.




                                                   14
    54.   The cost of water was reduced to N17.00 from an initial N99 per household. Access to
          solid waste disposal increased from an average of 28% to 74% of the population in the
          communities as a result of availability of water, and the incidence of infectious diseases
          dropped from 62.8% to 15.4%.

Rural electrification projects

    55.   Seven communities that had benefitted from rural electrification were surveyed. In these
          communities rural electrification in the project states led to technological and industrial
          advancement. New businesses were reported to have developed in all of the communities as
          a result of connection to the national grid. The availability of electricity in clinics was
          reported to have led to better health care delivery, thus improving the health conditions of
          the communities. As community members begin purchasing televisions and phones, their
          sense of being part of a global network has increased. They now can watch local and
          international news. Ownership of GSM phones has also enhanced communication with the
          external world. The ability to stay up late into the night as a result of availability of
          electricity was said to have impacted positively on the social life in the communities.

    56.   Average business productivity (from self reported assessment) within these communities in
          four LGAs improved from 8% to 40% due to availability of electric power. As many rural
          livelihood activities­ food processing, hair dressing, local welding -- depend on electric
          power, average income increased from N79.00 to N174.00 daily. Even though the cost of
          electricity increased from an average of N195.00 to N422.00 monthly after the projects
          were completed and the connections were made, the increased productivity were felt by the
          beneficiaries to justify the benefits of the electrification project.

    57.   Eighty-three (83) new businesses have opened in these seven communities as a result of the
          availability of electricity, bringing the total number from 34 to 117 within the survey
          period. Meanwhile, the number of technology-based businesses increased from 7 to 53. The
          reported number of business failures due to a lack of electricity decreased from 99 to 66
          business units per year.

    58.   On average, social activities was also perceived to have increased within the surveyed
          communities post rural electrification project execution.

Perceived Poverty Impact of Project on Households

    59.   Household poverty analysis through a perception survey was conducted as part of the
          impact assessment. There is a strong perception that household poverty has dropped
          considerably since 2006 according to the field measurements of 2009. These showed a
          certain number of households in some of the states, previously classified as poor, to have a
          noticeably improved economic status. Household income levels are reportedly improved
          since 2006. The improved supply of electricity due to electrification projects has positively
          impacted the economic wellbeing of the households in the eight states. Household members
          believed that the availability of electricity will lead to further industrial enterprises, which
          will translate into improved household incomes (for additional details, see Annex 5).


Efficiency




                                                    15
   60.   Based on the Background Study for the Mid-Term Review of the Community-based Poverty
         Reduction Project in 2004 and the Impact Evaluation done in 2008/9, the financing of the
         Community-based poverty reduction project remains economically justified.

   61.   The studies show that considering all construction and administrative costs and the quality
         of the end-products, the CPRP is about 26 percent more cost effective than similar
         alternative government agency projects for microprojects of the same specification.
         Specifically:

         CPRP generally used higher quality materials and better construction methods, covers very
         diverse geographic areas, and contracts out all of its construction work.
         In comparison to other agencies, the CPRP has had a more positive impact on the private
         and public sector by setting points of reference, such as prices and procedures, for the
         building industry.

   62.   The microprojects, according to beneficiaries, are perceived to have produced many
         immediate and positive human development outcomes, including improved school
         attendance, improved rural mobility, reduced cost and time required for fetching water,
         increased water volume usage, increased health center attendance, increased rural
         electricity coverage, and increased rural market activities. Table 2 in Annex 3 provides
         impact indicators of the CPRP and the ensuing microprojects in different sectors on socio
         economic activities of the beneficiaries (for additional details see Annex 3).


Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

   63.   Based on the discussion given in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated as
         Satisfactory.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   64.   Gender Aspects and Social Development. The CPRP incorporated a strong focus on gender
         inclusiveness throughout its design, as one of its primary objectives was to give voice to the
         under privileged and disadvantaged groups in the country, of which women is the largest.
         There was no discrimination in the consideration of women, youth, or the disabled in
         appointments for posts in the executive or other areas of responsibility in the project. More
         women than men were involved in the skill acquisition centers and market development
         projects. Women were involved in the project selection and implementation of all projects
         for which women were the direct beneficiaries. They also participated actively in
         microprojects for water supply, health, and education, tracking changes and keeping the
         projects on course.

   65.   The road and water projects impacted positively on women and children by saving them
         time and effort in fetching water (see Annexe 5). By reducing both the time and fatigue of
         this heavy daily task, CPRP projects increased the capacity of the women's productivity
         and income. Observations from the field showed that women were able to attend market
         days more often, since they now had more time and transportation to market was more
         available.



                                                  16
66.   Health and social well-being was observed to be improved in the benefitting communities.
      Regarding health, less time was needed to get to health centers because of improved roads,
      and this led to a higher attendance rate. Regarding social well-being, female respondents
      confirmed that they had increased free time, permitting them to participate in community
      activities and contribute to debates on matters concerning their welfare. They also noted an
      increased output from their farms and reduced losses of perishable farm products such as
      tomatoes and fruits because of the reduced travel time to get to the markets.

67.   Gender accessibility to credit improved in all the eight states over the three years of the
      project. Household credits are generally accorded to the women of the household, and the
      Rapid Impact Assessment confirmed that in Kebbi State, household access to credit
      increased from 6.2% in 2006 to 75.0% in 2009. In Ebonyi, the increase was from 12.3% in
      2006 to 89.8% in 2009. Although there is no way to firmly attribute these changes to the
      CPRP projects, it is clear that the general economy in the project states has improved, and
      that gender access to credit has been enhanced.

68.   Institutional aspects. Over the course of the project, federal, state and local institutions
      have had the opportunity to develop and maintain good project management skills. They
      have received training and support in management, planning, monitoring, evaluating, and
      effectiveness. They have learned about, practiced, and seen the benefits of the principles of
      openness, transparency and accountability in project implementation. The results can be
      seen through the following:
·     Improved efficiency in project management at the community, LGA, and MDA levels in
      general.
·     Use of the project concept by some LGAs on their own.
·     Initiation by the State Government of Yobe of similar projects where each political ward in
      the State is given N 2.0 Million monthly to spend on the priority project determined by
      itself.
·     Execution of similar projects by many communities on their own.
·     Partnering of MDAs with the State Agencies, using a similar approach to start their own
      projects, especially in water supply.
·     Use of CDD lessons of experience to formulate a national strategy by the National Planning
      Commission.

69.   Other unintended Outcomes. Although the CDD approach was met with skepticism at the
      outset of the project, its success has had a demonstrative effect. The CDD approach is now
      widely accepted in Nigeria, and many projects are focused on communities. Furthermore,
      based on the CPRP experience, environmental prudence is being replicated in other projects
      within the same communities and also elsewhere.

70.   The project improved the potential of achieving the Millennium Development Goals and
      created a base for sustainable development. Improved access to schools, for example, leads
      to improved enrollment rates in schools and even a slight increase in learning outcomes.
      Community-based projects have a particularly strong impact on the rural infrastructure,
      with social and economic benefits that usually go beyond the project life. They typically
      bring about positive changes in the behavior of individuals and groups, and even in the
      efficiency of the community system.

71.   Trust and social dynamism has improved in many communities. Some members of the
      community project implementation committee (PIC) participated in local level election for


                                               17
         political offices and won, based on their popularity and performance as project leaders in
         the community.

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

   72.   The Rapid Impact Assessment through a beneficiary survey was conducted by a Nigerian
         Consulting firm in the eight states that benefited from the CPRP projects for a period of
         four weeks between March 2 and March 31, 2009. In the absence of baseline information,
         the firm used household surveys and comparisons of beneficiary versus non beneficiary
         data in samples of the households in each of the States to establish the welfare impact of the
         project. About 1,800 households were interviewed, with about 225 households from each
         project State. Five LGAs were sampled from each State, with about 45 households
         interviewed from each LGA. The data analysis used frequency tables, with or without
         analysis, and a regression (SPSS) package for the measurement of relationship and
         causality. This report synthesized the findings of the Impact Assessment of the CPRP in
         Annex 5.

   73.   Sustainability of the benefits of the CPRP was considered crucial and so each of the eight
         state was encouraged to organize stakeholder workshop for sustenance and maintenance of
         the Microprojects. Annex 6 is a summarized report of the Workshop in one of the states -
         Kwara State. At the end of the workshop in each state, the stakeholders, including the
         community groups, agreed on strategies and mechanisms for maintain the microprojects to
         ensure continuous service delivery. Such mechanism includes funds mobilization, training
         of local artisans and establishment of maintenance and monitoring committees in
         partnership with local government authorities.

Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Ratings: Moderate

   74.   As part of the project design, LGAs were to sign Memorandums of Understanding (MOU)
         with the communities for current cost and maintenance of the microprojects in partnership
         with the communities, before the microproject was approved and funded by the Agency.
         Some LGAs did sign and fulfill their obligations; whereas some other LGAs signed, but did
         not subsequently fulfill their obligations. More troublesome, however, was the political
         instability of the LGA administration in the country during the period. From 2002 - 2005
         LGA elections in Nigeria were suspended, and administrators with no spending authority
         were appointed to head LGAs. New elections took place in 2006, but much time had been
         lost and the reestablishment of the linkage of communities with LGAs in the project was
         rather slow. Some LGAs picked up the MOUs and executed them. The Bank task team
         working with the State Agency also ensured a specialized training and awareness program
         for the maintenance of community assets. A large number of Community Project
         Management Committees (CPMC) was thereafter able to institute maintenance and
         sustainability strategies for their microprojects. For instance the committees were able to
         institutionalize cost recovery and maintenance funds for drug and health officers'
         allowances in primary health care units; fuel, repair, and security costs for water generation
         and reticulation systems; and the recruitment and hiring of school teachers in some cases.
         Also the activities of these committees resulted in an increased cohesiveness, participation
         and ownership of development interventions at the local level. More than 3000 micro-
         projects are maintained even now after project closure. Based on this experience, the


                                                  18
              follow-on CSDP project has a formalized "Community and LGA linkage" in the project
              design in the form of establishment of a unit within the LGA to incorporate recurrent cost
              implication of community microprojects in LGA budget and workplan. The unit will
              review and approve community development plans even before execution and indicate
              commitment of LGA to providing support and recurrent funds for the microprojects.

    75.       Other important issues that emerged and are now taken into account in the follow-on
              project are as follows:

          ·       User charges are fixed based on real costs of operating and maintaining the facilities
                  hereby ensuring sustainability through sufficient funds to keep plants and facilities
                  running.
          ·       Project sustainability will be further enhanced by ensuring that adequate funding for
                  road maintenance is included in the original design of the project, even if it is through
                  the development of funding mechanisms at the state and local government level, such
                  as tollgates charging a minimal tax for interstate vehicular movement.

Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

    76.       The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assigned a "Satisfactory" rating to the project's
              overall quality at entry. This was comprised of "Highly Satisfactory" ratings for Strategic
              Relevance and Approach and Fiduciary Aspects, and "Satisfactory" ratings for Technical,
              Financial and Economic Aspects, Environmental Aspects, Policy and Institutional Aspects,
              Implementation Arrangements, and Risk Assessment and Management.

    77.       The QAG observed that the CPRP was a sound project across all eight quality dimensions,
              with well conceived objectives, a sound design, and with implementation arrangements that
              were appropriate for prevailing conditions in Nigeria. At the same time, the QAG panel
              pointed out that the project would have benefitted from some additional preparation time,
              which could have been used to "operationalise" the state-level social fund organizations and
              to prepare the communities to carry out their sub-project management responsibilities. It
              could have also been used to meet several of the effectiveness conditions prior to Board
              presentation. In the panel's judgment, the operation would achieve the stated main
              development objectives of poverty reduction and capacity building, and the benefits from
              this operation were also likely to be sustainable in the longer-term.

    78.       According to QAG: (i) the project was prepared by a strong team (including peer reviewers
              and anchor support), and this was reflected in the excellent concept, design, and proposed
              implementation; (ii) The PAD was to-the-point and open, and the risk section rightly gave
              this a "high" risk rating. The list of key performance indicators also rightly included a 50%
              share for women beneficiaries over the objections of various state governments.

    79.       According to the ICRR team, the Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and
              appraisal stages of the project was satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank



                                                       19
         took into account the adequacy of project design, technical, financial, economic, and
         institutional aspects, and procurement and financial management schemes. A number of
         alternatives were considered for the project design. In addition, major risk factors and
         lessons learned from other earlier projects in the social sector were considered and
         incorporated into the project design.

   80.   Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided
         the technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and a good project design. The
         team also benefited from substantial contributions from other Africa Region sector unit
         specialists, as well as major anchor input. The team had done work to understand the
         unique requirements for implementation in the different states, and even within regions of
         specific states in which the project would operate.

   81.   The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amounts to ensure
         quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the government
         priorities in the sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship
         with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

   82.   The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. During
         the first two years of the project, the TTL was based in HQ, while other task team members
         were based in the field. In the third year, the Bank and Government agreed to further
         strengthen project supervision by assigning TTL responsibilities to the Bank staff in the
         field. The rest of the team was maintained and continuity and institutional memory were
         retained. The country team was able to work with the counterpart staff on a daily basis and
         could resolve implementation issues fairly easily and efficiently. Due to budgetary
         constraints, on the other hand, full supervision missions with specialists from headquarters
         (Washington DC) were held only once a year. During the extension with additional
         financing, the Nigeria Country office benefitted from the decentralization policy of the
         World Bank, and other specialists such as procurement, financial management, safeguards,
         and M&E specialists were in the field working closely with the counterpart staff.

   83.   The task team prepared Aide-Memoires regularly, prepared and alerted the government and
         the PCU to problems with project execution, and facilitated remedies in a timely manner.
         The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the project
         both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. The
         task team also monitored safeguard and fiduciary compliances.

   84.   Bank's procurement and financial management staff worked continuously with the
         implementing agency staff to explain the rules and procedures applicable to project
         implementation with regard to procurement of goods and works, accounts and audits, and
         selection of consultants, based on the Credit Agreement. Through its follow-on project,
         CSDP, the Bank has ensured that adequate transition arrangements are made for regular
         operations.

   85.   One important aspect of the Bank's performance and contribution was the continuity of the
         task team, including the TTL and other key sector specialists, from project inception
         through completion. This continuity ensured consistency, depth, and follow-up in the



                                                 20
         dialogue with the government and provided expertise to help the governments analyze
         issues and implement actions as they emerged during supervision.

   86.   The task team was also proactive in resolving implementation issues. For example, the
         when the Bank realized that the project implementation was being adversely affected due to
         several factors in NPC, the task team prevailed upon the government to shift the
         coordination responsibility from NPC to FMOF. As a result of this shift, project activities
         moved faster and there was also significant improvement in terms of coordination and
         M&E.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

   87.   Based on the Bank performance during the lending phase and supervision as discussed
         above, overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

   88.   During project preparation, the federal government was committed to developing a
         community-based poverty reduction strategy. It had concluded that its former policies and
         projects aimed at poverty reduction (e.g. FEAP) had not proven successful, mainly as they
         had not involved communities in design and implementation. The CAPPA document,
         prepared by the NPC/PAPDC and adopted in 1996, was rooted in a community-based
         approach to poverty alleviation. A Poverty Policy document was also drafted from the
         strategy paper. The policy document was updated and refined for adoption with support
         from this project.

   89.   State governments had also expressed eagerness to participate in this project and were
         willing to co-finance project activities. Most of the project preparation activities at the State
         level, including the social and institutional assessments and the preparation of project
         manuals, were financed and organized by the States themselves. The project was designed
         to take into account the varying levels of commitment and readiness to implement projects
         among the states, by allowing for a phased entry of states into implementation.

   90.   The federal government and the participating States maintained their commitment
         throughout implementation. The FMOF, in particular, was very supportive of the project.
         The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis
         and with full cooperation. They were highly committed and qualified.

   91.   Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability
         and follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were
         incurred. Documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. Counterpart
         funding problems in the first two years of implementation were resolved when the Bank
         and the government agreed to waive the need for counterpart funding.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.


                                                   21
   92.   The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at the federal level was based at NPC for the first
         four years of the project, and then moved to the MOF for the last three years. The major
         role of this agency was coordination and monitoring, and it had its own special account. It
         was also responsible for procuring vehicles, consultancy services, and training.

   ·     Financial Management Review. The Financial Management Performance Review showed
         that the project was moderately satisfactory overall, despite some issues around delayed
         submission of SOEs and documentations for advances. Audited financial statements were
         received within the submission deadline and the audit opinion was unqualified.
   ·     Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of all works, goods and technical services under
         the project followed the Procurement Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and
         IDA Credits".
   ·     Reporting Arrangements. The PCU submitted all required quarterly and annual reports in a
         timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on how
         the microprojects were progressing covering all project activities. The status of
         performance indicators was incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable
         input to Bank supervision mission reports.

   Performance of PCU while at NPC and later with the FMOF was moderately satisfactory.

   93.   State Poverty Reduction Agencies. Procurement and financial management for State
         activities was carried out at the State level. Initially, the State Project Officers (who
         managed the projects and handled procurement) had little experience in the necessary
         skills, particularly regarding the process of selecting consultants. After the first post-
         procurement review in December 2003, significant capacity building activities were
         undertaken, and the situation improved. There were no further issues, and procurement was
         rated satisfactory.

         Overall performance of State Poverty Reduction Agencies was highly satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

   94.   In light of the performance of the Government, PCU, and State Agencies as discussed
         above, the overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

Lessons Learned
Institutional

   ·     LGAs are the closest link to government, and any project that is oriented towards capacity
         development at the grassroots level must make provision for involvement of the LGAs.
         The project selection method under the CPRP gave communities voice and allowed them to
         participate in the decision making process with the ability to conceive communal goals,
         prioritize projects, and select projects for funding through participatory methods. LGAs
         should be encouraged to follow this method of selection of capital projects for communities
         such that beneficiary communities are given the opportunity to participate in decisions




                                                 22
    concerning annual budgets for LGAs. With the CPRP approach, communities can be
    effective partners with government and LGAs in reducing their poverty.
·   The partnering of the LGAs with the CPRP to staff the schools and the clinics under the
    project is one of the success stories of the project. Future projects should consider this kind
    of partnership to be a standing arrangement under the project.
·   A truly CDD approach impacts positively on people, fosters democratic norms and
    practices, engenders an all-inclusive and participatory process of decision making and
    literally allows all persons especially the small man to have an opinion, a voice, the
    opportunity to be heard, to be listened to, and to make a contribution. This also translates to
    a positive impact on governance. Governments are made to be aware of the opinion of
    people, and people are also able to act as watchdogs or ombudsman.
·   The project demonstrated that, with proper sensitization women can fully participate in
    CDD projects. As anticipated in the design and the target set for the project, the majority
    (about 70%) of the project beneficiaries were women.
·   CPRP projects that were not functioning well during the field survey were those that were
    not levying user charges on the facilities acquired under the project. A few communities
    were still living under the illusion that CPRP projects were granted to them as part of
    government largesse and did not fully understand the responsibilities that go along project
    ownership by being stakeholders. The concept of cost recovery needs to be fully explained
    as a means of generating revenue to cover operational costs for equipment and facilities
    acquired by communities under the program. Without cost recovery to cover maintenance
    and management charges, project sustainability will be at risk.
·   Some of the non-beneficiary communities have gone ahead and replicated the financing
    structure of the CPRP and have started self-help projects in their communities. This is
    considered a positive development.




                                              23
Implementation

    ·     Continuity of the team working on the project, especially the TTL, was very important both
          for the Bank and the Borrower. In this project, the continuity of the task team ensured
          consistency, depth, and follow-up in the dialogue with the government and provided expertise
          to help the government analyze issues and implement actions as they emerged during
          supervision.
    ·     Recruitment of qualified project staff was pivotal and relevant training and capacity
          building before project effectiveness was critical to effective implementation.
    ·     The participatory approach and consultation with the communities about their needs and
          priorities facilitated the effective project implementation and increased the success rate.
          The effectiveness of a project is considerably enhanced when there is strong leadership,
          political ownership, and commitment at all levels.
    ·     Effective and efficient project delivery includes a jointly-agreed, results-based M&E
          system, including well-defined and measurable performance indicators.

Important Factors for the success of a project

    ·     The high level of commitment on the part of the federal government and the participating
          States for poverty alleviation and their willingness to try new approaches such as CDD,
          contributed to the success of CPRP.
    ·     A simple and clear project design and flexibility in implementation are important for a
          project's success. In CPRP, the States had the flexibility to choose/focus on things best
          suited for them, depending on their capacity and infrastructure
    ·     Although poor, many communities were highly dynamic, resourceful, and proactive, with
          strong players. All these positive factors contributed to the success of the project.

Financial Management

    ·     A computerized financial management system is a key element for a successful project, and
          remedial actions invoked for the retirement of advances must be documented in any
          Financial Procedures Manual.

    95.   The stated lessons of experience were integrated into the follow-on project ­ CSDP--
          especially in terms of the implementation arrangements, linkages with LGA for
          sustainability, and the proper targeting of beneficiaries.

Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

    96.   The borrower prepared a comprehensive and impressive "Borrower's Evaluation Report,"
          that concurs with the opinion that the implementation of the project was successful, the
          project objectives were achieved and the rating of the project was satisfactory. The
          evaluation report (see Annex 7) concludes that the CPRP implementation process
          employing the CDD methodology was (i) transparent and free of the corruption often
          prevalent in other project designs; (ii) empowered the local and ordinary people to prioritise
          their social infrastructure needs; (iii) contributed to the funding of the projects selected; and
          (iv) took active control of the maintenance and sustainability of the projects. The borrower


                                                    24
           made suggestions for improvement on similar projects in the future. Many of the
           suggestions have been incorporated into the follow-on project CSDP.

     97.   The borrower noted that the states and the Federal Ministry of Finance had a good
           implementation relationship with the World Bank and that the World Bank performed
           above average, but that supervision was insufficient even though the project was a pilot.
           The borrower did not feel that the project benefitted from increased implementation support
           in the field to the detriment of more frequent supervision missions from WB headquarters.
           Nonetheless, they recognized that the task team worked on a daily basis with the
           counterpart staff and resolved most difficult issues (the sustainability of microprojects,
           changeover of coordination from NPC to FMOF, and the development of appropriate M&E
           system) quickly and efficiently. The task team also ensured that safeguards, procurement
           and financial management under the project were smooth during implementation. Local
           consultants were also engaged by the Bank to regularly interact with the PIUs. These
           consultants were probably not seen as part of the Bank Team by the borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NA




                                                   25
Annex 1.             Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate          Actual /Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
         Components
                                       (US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Capacity-building                            6.56                        21.62*                         329%
Community-based                              78.53                        59.83                          76%
Initiatives
Unallocated                                  6.40                          Nil                             0%
           Total Baseline Cost               91.49                        81.45                          89%
Physical Contingencies                       1.33                          Nil                             0%
Price Contingencies                          3.54                          Nil                             0%
           Total Project Costs               96.36                        81.45                          84%
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)
   Total Financing Required                  96.36                        81.45                          84%
*Capacity building includes Goods, Consultancy and Operating Costs.

(b) Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)

                                                         Appraisal               Actual/Latest
                                  Type of                                                               Percentage of
   Source of Funds                                       Estimate                  Estimate
                                 Financing                                                               Appraisal
                                                       (US$ million)             (US$ million)
BORROWER                                                   0.38                      0.0                      0%
IDA                                                       60.00*                   85.00                  140%*
AFRICAN                                                    26.74                                             0%
DEVELOPMENT
BANK
BORROWING                                                    1.18                     1.2                  101%
AGENCY
LOCAL                                                        6.23                    7.03                  112%
COMMUNITIES
SUB-                                                         1.85                    2.82                  154%
BORROWER(S)
*Additional financing of $25m was also made by IDA ­explaining the difference between Appraisal estimate and Actual for IDA




                                                            26
Annex 2.          Outputs by Component

Component 1. Capacity-building
 State       Number of CBOs Number of                        Workshops          Staff on Institutional
             Trained           Staff Trained                 organized/attended attachment
 Abia               n.a.             n.a.                           n.a.                  n.a.

 Cross River              264                   15                    60                       8

 Ebonyi                    80                   29                    59                       9

 Ekiti                    364                   n.a.                  42                       -

 Kebbi                    708                   28                    29                       25

 Kogi                     356                   42                    18                       5

 Kwara                     97                   n.a.                  n.a.                     10

 Yobe                     828                   15                    n.a.                 n.a.
Source: CPRP Overview of Project Implementation: Inception to 2nd Quarter 2008

Component II. Community-based Initiatives
Microprojects Implemented across Sectors as at March 31, 2009
 Sector                                  Number Completed since              Amount expended to date
                                         inception                           ($)
            Health                                  303                                6.17
          Education                                1119                                2.26
        Water supply                                925                                10.83
       Water transport                                3                                0.07
   Feeder roads, culverts etc                       277                                6.97
    Environmental control                            24                                0.47
          Sanitation                                 12                                0.14
     Rural electrification                          168                                4.76
     Market infrastructure                           51                                0.72
         Civic center                                23                                1.83
       Skill acquisition                             75                                0.61
            Others                                   19                                0.63
             Total                                 2999                                55.77
Source: Federal Ministry of Finance M&E Report as at March 31, 2009




                                                       27
Annex 3.        Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis of CPRP

There was no specific economic analysis carried out during the preparation of CPRP. However, the
PAD stipulated that a cost effectiveness analysis would be carried out for the CPRP. Two broad sets
of cost effectiveness analysis were to be undertaken as part of the CPRP operation. These were:

    ·   An economic analysis of subprojects under the CPRP: within the framework of cost
        effectiveness of sub-projects, it was envisaged that the following would be covered:
            · cost per beneficiary
            · cost per sub-project unit
            · sustainability analysis (including right institutional arrangements for operating and
                maintaining the subprojects and availability of recurrent costs)
            · monitoring of economic viability of sub-projects using MIS standard reports,
                independent technical audits and periodic beneficiary assessments;
    ·   economic analysis of the delivery mechanism: The key areas to be addressed under this
        section of economic analysis would include:
            · Building on the cost effectiveness analysis to derive lessons for the role of FGN in
                developing and delivering poverty oriented projects and how it could provide a
                framework within which other stakeholders could work.
            · Assessing how the project could strengthen government capacity ­ at federal, state
                and local government levels -to deliver services to the poor.
            · Understanding needs that could best be addressed through community involvement
            · Indications of the desirable level and form of funding for communities
            · Using the results to feed into the government's strategy for achieving poverty
                reduction objectives that would be both cost-efficient and financially sustainable.

Based on the Background Study for the Mid-Term Review of the Community-based Poverty
Reduction Project in 2004, and the Impact Evaluation done in 2008/9, the financing of the
Community-based poverty reduction project remains economically justified.

The studies show that considering all construction and administrative costs and the quality of the
end-products, the CPRP was about 26 percent more cost effective than similar alternative
government agency projects for microprojects of the same specification. Specifically

        CPRP generally used higher quality materials and better construction methods, covered
        very diverse geographic areas, and contracted out all of its construction work.
        In comparison to other agencies, CPRP had a more positive impact on the private and
        public sector, by setting points of reference such as prices and procedures, for the building
        industry.




                                                 28
                      Table 1: Comparative Cost Analysis of Micro-projects
    Micro-project                                   Cost in million Naira
                         Unit     CPRP cost      CPRP         Average                       Cost
                                  range          Average      Alternative                   Effectiveness
                                                              Cost                          Index (%)
Rural feeder roads         1 km    0.34-0.258      0.43            0.65                         33.85
Electricity generator     1 KVA     0.22-0.87      0.31            0.40                         22.50
Borehole                     1      1.44-5.20      2.87            4.70                         38.90
Hand-dug well                1      0.20-0.62      0.41            0.52                          21.1
School classrooms            1      0.45-1.25      0.74            1.04                          28.8
Open market stall            1       0.2-0.4       0.30            0.45                          33.3
Healthcare center            1      0.94-1.20      1.07            1.10                          2.73
Source: Background Study for the Mid-Term Review of the Community-based Poverty Reduction Project (Study by the
Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research, November 2004)

CPRP used detailed technical criteria, standard designs, and simple economic criteria to determine
sub-project economic viability. This included the application of a comprehensive list of unit costs
by type of sub-project. CPRP's design also fostered greater allocative efficiency in public
expenditure. Through the promotion of participatory decision-making at the local level
(participatory community planning process), CPRP empowered communities to allocate scarce
resources across sectors, thereby ensuring that such resources are applied most efficiently in
response to local priorities. Broad-based participation created local ownership which, combined
with other complementary activities that CPRP provided (such as capacity building, etc.), made the
sub-projects sustainable and extended the life of the investment's benefits.

At the close of CPRP in March 2009, there were 3,123 microprojects funded in 3,085 communities
which conservatively benefitted directly/indirectly an estimated population of 10.3 million people.
These microprojects cut across many sectors ­ water and sanitation, education, primary health care,
rural electrification, feed roads, skill acquisition, market infrastructure, erosion control and
information and equipping of television viewing centers. Of the 2,999 completed microprojects in
all the 8 project states, only 60 were not in use as of the end of the first quarter of 2009. Indeed,
2,759 microprojects were still being used and maintained after one year of completion.

Overall, about N8, 713,590,497.00 were expended on these microprojects at a unit cost of N2,
865,370.11per microproject. This amount however varied by state with Kebbi having the lowest at
N2, 018,111.11 and Abia having the highest of N4, 620,423.92 per microproject. Spread over the
number of beneficiaries, an amount of about N846.00 was expended per individual.

The microprojects, according to beneficiaries, are perceived to have produced many immediate and
positive human development outcomes, including improved school attendance, improved rural
mobility, reduced cost and time required for fetching water, increased water volume usage,
increased health center attendance, increased rural electricity coverage, and increased rural market
activities. Table 2 below provides impact indicators of the CPRP and the ensuing microprojects in
different sectors on socio economic activities of the beneficiaries.




                                                     29
     Table 2: Impact of Microprojects in different sectors on socio economic activities of the
                                         beneficiaries

No. Item                 Impact on
1.     Impact on             ·   Formation of corporate entities (co-operative societies (CDA) at
       Capacity                  community levels
       Building              ·   Use of participatory learning and action methods and CDD
                             ·   Democratic elections of PIU members
                             ·   At the LGA level capacity appeared largely undeveloped in the process
                                 save the CDOs.


2.     Impact of road        ·   Reduction in commuting from average of 2 hours to less than 30 minutes
       infrastructure        ·   Increased vehicular movements
                             ·   Increased commercial activities.
                             ·   Increased amount of farm produce marketed
                             ·   Reduced transport costs.
                             ·   Growth in produce marketed and the income of the community members
                                 remain largely unquantifiable.
3.     Impact of             ·   Increased enrolment in primary education
       Education             ·   Improved quality of education as it became possible to recruit teachers to
                                 staff the schools, and absenteeism of both teachers and students dropped.
                             ·   The collaboration of LGAs in regard to staffing of schools and payment
                                 of teachers' salaries is one of the great gains of the CPRP partnership and
                                 collaboration in involving government and the people jointly in
                                 development for the common good.
4.     Health Impact         ·   The use of rural health care facilities nearly doubled.
                             ·   The quality of health services enhanced as the supply of medicines
                                 improved.
                             ·   More facilities and equipment readily available.
                             ·   Reduction of treatment costs.
                             ·   Reduced costs because close proximity of the health centres reduced
                                 transport costs for clinic visits and drug purchases.
5.     Electrification       ·   Springing up of businesses such as business centers, sawmills,
       Impact                    hairdressing and barbering salons in the communities.
                             ·   Reduction in number of snake bites
                             ·   Improved health care through the use of electricity in hospitals.




                                                  30
No. Item            Impact on
6.    Impact on         ·   Community camaraderie developed as people met and related over periods of
      Social                time and became partners in collective progress and shared knowledge and
      Capital               information that was beneficial to all
                        ·   Community integration and inclusiveness noticed in many states as different
                            tribes cooperated for the mutual purpose of executing the development of rural
                            infrastructure which was beneficial to all.
                        ·   Trust and solidarity fostered by the CPRP process as the communities had to
                            place their trust in a few officers duly appointed by them to do the work.
                        ·   Collective responsibility was central to project success.
                        ·   Free flow of information within the communities because knowledge acquired
                            from the State Agencies was disseminated clearly through the Facilitators and
                            the PIC members to the community such that everyone was aware of the
                            objectives of the CPRP and the targets to be met by communities especially as
                            regards counterpart funds and completion dates and maintenance budget plans.
                        ·   Transparency helped build trust in the process, thereby increasing the
                            confidence and commitment of the people to making the project successful.
                        ·   The free flow of information also helped to open the communities to
                            knowledge about markets for goods and services and gave them a voice to
                            seek more information about government provision of public services.
                        ·   Communities became empowered when given a voice through the project.
                        ·   The knowledge gained through the CPRP process made communities aware of
                            the shortcomings of the LGA in provision and management of rural
                            infrastructure and would hopefully caution them on nonchalance about
                            maintaining the assets they acquired with 10% counterpart funding.
                        ·   Communities became actively involved in the processes leading to
                            infrastructure provision in their communities in a demand-driven approach.
                            That this achievement becomes replicable is something every community
                            should seek to ensure.
7.    Impact on         ·   Human capacity development was a major positive impact of the CPRP
      Human                 process. The capacity development process involved all cadres of persons in
      Resource              the implementation process in a top-down development of training.
                        ·   Community members especially the PIC members of the CDAs were
                            adequately empowered in key success factors such as bookkeeping and
                            accounts, procurement process, recording minutes etc.
                        ·   Low level of training on maintenance and sustainability of projects
                        ·   It is suggested that the CDOs at the LGAs may be involved in this process of
                            project monitoring.


Source: Impact Evaluation Study 2008/2009




                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
  Processes
(a) Task Team Members
                                                                       Responsibility/
             Names                         Title               Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
John Elder                 Lead Social Protection Specialist   AFTH3 TTL
Foluso Okunmadewa          Lead Social Protection Specialist AFTH3 Project Cycle
Bayo Awosemusi             Lead Procurement Specialist          AFTPC Procurement
Abiodun Elufioye           Program Assistant                    AFCW2 ACS
                                                                      Financial
Muraino Olaseni Ogunsanya Consultant                            AFTFM
                                                                      Management
Anne Okigbo                 Sr. Operations Officer              AFTH3
Nicole Hamon                Program Assistant                   AFTH2 ACS
Barbara Machado             Program Assistant                   AFTH2 ACS
Roy Canagarajah             Lead Economist                      ECSP1 Poverty Targeting
                                                                      Financial
Anthony Martin Hegarty      Chief Financial Management Officer OPCFM
                                                                      Management
Steen Lau Jorgensen         Sector Director                     MNSHD
Myrina McCullough           Operations Analyst                  AFTH3
Kathrin Plangemann          Lead Public Sector Specialist       AFTPR
Jennifer Sara               Sector Leader                       LSCSD
Haddy Jatou Sey             Social Development Spec.            ENVCF
Olaitan Yaya Adisa Olaniran Consultant                          AFTH3
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi            Lead Counsel                        LEGAF Legal
                                                                      Financial
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola   Sr. Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
                                                                      Management
Moussoukoro Soukoule        Program Assistant                   AFTHD ACS
Kenechukwu Maria Ezemenari Sr. Economist                        AFTP3
Christophe Prevost          Sr. Water & Sanitation Spec.        ETWSA
Paul Francis                Sr. Social Development Specialist   AFTSD
John Y. Ngwafon             Sr. Economist                       AFTRL
Adebiyi Gregory Daramola    Consultant                          AFTH3
Richard Ian Knapp           Consultant (Public Sector )         AFTPR
Joseph Olayemi              Consultant                          AFTH3 CDD Approach
Amit Dar                    Sector Manager                      SASED
Rosemary Cubagee            Consultant                          AFTH3




                                            32
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Supervision/ICRR
 Foluso Okunmadewa          Lead Social Protection Specialist    AFTSP TTL
John Elder                  Lead Social Protection Specialist    AFTSP TTL
Anne Okigbo                 Sr. Operations Officer               AFTHE
Mary Asanato-Adiwu          Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC Procurement
                            Sr. Financial Management                   Financial
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola                                        AFTFM
                            Specialist                                 Management
Therese Tshamala            Program Assistant                    AFTSP ACS
Olatunde Adekola            Sr. Education Spec.                  AFTED
Sati Achath                 Consultant                           AFTFW ICR Author
Akinrinmola Oyenuga                                                    Financial
                            Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Akinyele                                                               Management
Africa Olojoba              Sr. Environmental Specialist         AFTEN Safeguards
Shakirudeen Onasanya        Consultant                           AFTH3 Environment
                                                                          Community
Samantha De Silva           Sr. Social Protection Specialist     HDNSP
                                                                          Contracting
Abiodun Falusi              Consultant                           AFTH3
Shakirudeen Odunuga         Consultant                           AFTH3
Myrina McCullough           Consultant                           AFTSP ICR Editor
                                                                          Financial
Adewumi Cosmas Adekoya      Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
                                                                          Management
Ayodeji Daramola            Consultant                           AFTH3
Bolarinwa Omonona           Consultant                           AFTH3
Sulaiman Adesina Yusuf      Consultant                           AFTSP
Labayo Kolawola Kazeem      Consultant                           AFTSP
Joyce Olubukola Agunbiade   Consultant                           AFTFM
Lynne Sherburne-Benz        Sector Manager                       AFTSP
Yasser El-Gammal            Cluster Leader                       AFTSP
Anne Anglio                 Senior Program Assistant             AFTSP
Therese M. Diomi            Consultant                           AFTSP
Abiodun Elufioye            Program Assistant                    AFCW2 ACS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY00                                            53.77                      267
 FY01                                            59.38                      185
 FY02                                            41.04                      141
                    Total Lending:              154.19                      593



                                              33
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Supervision/ICRR
 FY03                                           53.52                      147
 FY04                                           34.17                      112
 FY05                                           27.59                       97
 FY06                                           13.20                       47
 FY07                                           13.37                       57
 FY08                                           15.67                       67
 FY09                                           10.29                       97
 FY10                                            1.40                       25
               Total Supervision:              169.21                      649
                   Grand Total :               323.40                     1242




                                             34
Annex 5.           RAPID IMPACT ASSESSMENT - Beneficiary Survey

Introduction

      1.   A Nigerian Consulting firm conducted a field survey of the 8 states that benefited from the
           CPRP projects for a period of 4 weeks between March 2 and March 31, 2009. This report
           synthesizes the findings of the Consultant after the field survey of the Impact Assessment
           of the Community Based Poverty Reduction Project in Nigeria.

      2.   At the time of the survey, some of the projects visited such as clinics, schools, libraries,
           though completed or nearly completed, had not yet been put into use. A proper
           measurement of the impact of such projects was consequently not possible. This report
           therefore took the form of a Rapid Impact Assessment in some cases.

Methodology and Survey Design

      3.   Two approaches were employed in carrying out the Impact Assessment study: Desk review,
           and Fieldwork.

      4.   A desk review of copious secondary data was undertaken on a continuous basis on the
           CPRP ideology and objectives. The project development process was reviewed using the
           project appraisal documents, the loan agreements and the legal documents. A review of the
           Local Government Budget and Expenditure on infrastructure in some of the project states
           was also carried out for purposes of providing comparative analysis of the impact of CPRP
           expenditure on the beneficiary communities. The review of the documents and reports from
           projects using a similar implementation methodology of a community based (bottom-up)
           approach such as the Fadama II1 and the Community Based Urban Development Project2
           provided a good basis for judging whether the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Bank
           are consolidating on successful models and harnessing the gains of such models for other
           projects and also using part of the capacity built on such similar projects in new programs.
           Documents relating to each State Agency for poverty reduction were also reviewed. In
           particular the Assessment Team obtained and reviewed the following documents on a state
           by state basis:
      ·    Baseline surveys and data

      ·    Core Welfare Survey Report

      ·    Procurement manuals

      ·    Quarterly account for 2008 (at least 4 past quarters)

      ·    M & E reports


1
    Independent Assessment of Fadama II Project carried out by Sages Consult Limited
2
    Community Based Urban Development Project : Mid-term Review by Sages Consult Limited



                                                     35
   ·    Training Manuals on Procurement training

   ·    Training manuals, documents and papers on capacity development carried out by the CPRP
        to both state and LGA staff and community CDAs.

   ·    All other relevant documents such as press clips and notes etc.

   5.   The field survey afforded an opportunity to gather both qualitative and quantitative and
        primary data on the project and conduct visual assessment and review of the CPRP process
        and the effect of the project on the benefiting and non-benefiting communities. The Field
        survey provided evidence in real terms what the secondary data had indicated especially in
        quantitative data on the extent to which project objectives were met and the impact of the
        projects on the lives of the members of the benefiting communities.

Achievements

   6.   Altogether 3,085 communities, serving a total estimated population of 10.3 million people
        benefited directly or indirectly from the CPRP. The total number of completed projects in
        all the 8 project states is 2,999. From the desk review of the documents available on the
        project, the micro projects currently in operation are 2,903 with a total of 2,759 projects
        still being maintained after one year of implementation. A cursory survey carried out
        during our field work showed that a few of the water supply projects were not functioning
        in the project states due to superficial damage, which would be easily rectified.

   7.   Percentages of projects executed in each project state in the various sectors showed that
        education has the highest demand with 37.3% of the projects supported under the program,
        followed by water supply with 30.84% of the total commitment under the program. Water
        transport and civic centre projects were least in demand with 0.10% and 0.77% of the total
        projects executed in these areas, respectively. The only demand for water transport services
        was in the riverine areas of Cross River State. About 54.59% of the projects completed in
        Yobe State were water supply projects, while Kogi and Kebbi States executed an average
        20% of their projects as feeder roads and culvert projects under the program in their states.

   8.   The paradigm shift in theories of rural development to Participatory Learning Action (PLA)
        approaches was obviously the platform on which the CPRP was premised. A scrutiny of
        the project documents and implementation procedure as well as field survey and semi-
        structured interviewing of officers of the State Agencies and the community members
        confirmed that conceptually the CPRP was well founded and well grounded. The consultant
        found copious evidence that the General Managers and staff involved in the structure and
        implementation of the projects were all knowledgeable workers with a total commitment to
        the ideals of the CPRP. All eight state agencies fully endorsed the project philosophy. In
        some states such as Kogi, even the drivers of the Agencies were able to articulate and
        communicate the project ideology to the consultants and had very useful insights into
        project components, success rates, and failure risk factors. The capacity of the officers of
        the State Agencies to reach the grassroots through targeted facilitation is judged to be
        highly satisfactory.

   9.   The beneficiaries of CPRP were all unanimous in affirming that the Agency staff were
        above board, helpful but firm and intent on achieving success rather than be clogs in the
        wheel of progress. Safeguards put in place by the rules of accessing funds such as
        Maintenance Committee and Maintenance Budget, Counterpart funding were all strictly


                                                 36
         adhered to and the CDAs were taken through the process with purpose and due
         consideration. It is a remarkable achievement to see the capacity of local communities
         developed so positively as to make them into corporate persons with the ability to actually
         conceive of communal goals, prioritize the goals in order of importance and through
         participatory methods to be able to rank and select one common project that will serve the
         interest of all, for development. The fact that the communities were able to form groups,
         elect leaders into positions, understand the difference between leadership for action and
         ceremonial leadership and thus appoint capable hands in the PICs and the integration of
         women into the CDA leadership are positive outcomes of the CPRP process.

   10.   While it was apparent that there was institutional capacity development at the State level,
         there was not much evidence of any such positive impact of the project at the local
         government level. In at least 70% of the total participating states, there seemed to be very
         weak link between the LGAs and the CPRP process. Although the CDOs were all from the
         LGAs and had their offices located within the LGs those CDOs operated independently of
         the LGs and reported only to the State Agencies. The Assessment Team could not draw an
         organogram with a slot for the LGA even as monitoring agent. The reason given for the
         apparent parallel operations between State CPRPs and LGs was the suggestion that the
         State agencies felt that the LGAs might hijack the project, and the project funds would not
         be utilized for the purpose for which they were intended. The communities shared this view
         and were as reluctant to have the LGs involved as the Agencies. Yet the PAD clearly does
         not envisage total exclusion of the LGs from the process since some projects such as
         schools and primary health care centers could only be approved upon securing confirmation
         that the LG would provide staff and support.

   11.   In Kogi State there were areas where the CPRP would have provided a facility such as a
         water borehole whereas the LGA would not easily provide such a facility. This led to some
         duplication of efforts. If the communities learned any credible lessons from the CPRP
         methodology, it would be the need to prioritize development needs of the community and
         to use their voice to drive home their demands. Despite the overall success of the CPRP,
         the involvement of the LGAs will be necessary for project sustainability and replication of
         the program at the state and local government levels. The capacity of LGAs should be so
         developed that the lessons and experiences learned on the project should be reflected in
         project selection, financial discipline, and accounting and budgeting procedure at the LGA
         level.


Impact of Road and Infrastructure Projects on CPRP Communities

Quantifiable Project Impacts

   12.   The problems encountered during the field survey of unavailability of quantifiable data
         have been emphasized. Out of 134 respondents to the Road and Transportation sector only
         22, representing 16.5% percent, gave quantifiable data on project impact. Data collected
         from this sector showed that in 4 communities in Ebonyi State, the average commuting
         times of 75 minutes (1hr 15min) prior to project implementation was reduced to only 24
         minutes as a result of the road and bridges constructed/rehabilitated. Vehicular traffic along
         these roads and bridges increased from 202 to 719 vehicles per day plying the roads
         constructed/rehabilitated in the 8 States. Outstanding among the States is Kogi with only 27
         vehicles plying the routes prior to the project and 355 vehicles daily after project execution.
         As a result of the infrastructure projects in these communities, data gathered revealed that


                                                  37
          commercial activities along the routes and within the communities increased generally from
          26% to 68%. Average transportation costs decreased from N126.00 to N76.00 in all the
          States except Kogi where it increased by N8.00 (possibly attributable to a number of factors
          such as the unavailability of petroleum products at the time).

    13.   Incidence of flooding along the roads, bridges and within the communities reduced from an
          average of approximately 60% before the projects to 20% in all the States where projects
          were executed. Abia State had a high incidence of flooding (90%) that fell drastically to
          10% in the communities where road/bridge/drainage projects were executed.

    14.   Farm produce marketed in the communities with infrastructure projects, especially markets
          and roads, increased from 28% to 68% on the total average. In other words, 40 percentage
          points of the farm produce that could have been spoiled with long transport route or
          destroyed as a result of inaccessibility to markets were sold.

    15.   The infrastructure projects have also reduced the incidence of diseases within the
          communities because of improved access (roads) to health facilities. An average of the 8
          States revealed that the incidence of disease was reduced from 38% to 21%, something that
          beneficiaries thought was due to the accessibility of state and LGA environmental and
          health officers to the communities and vice-versa.

Other Project Benefits

    16.   There were a total of 243km of new roads constructed, 355km of roads under construction,
          and 2,699 km roads rehabilitated in all the 8 CPRP project states. While it may be difficult
          to link a direct relationship between the construction of rural roads and poverty reduction in
          rural communities, the linkage between the two factors is inferable in the CPRP projects.

    17.   There is a temptation to underestimate the positive impacts of rural roads as a result of the
          perception of a mismatch of investment costs to benefits accruable from the investment.
          Our field survey showed a low traffic count on some roads because the traffic was more
          pedestrian than vehicular and not counted. The recorded vehicular movement showed more
          motorcycles than cars. On non market days, farm produce transport appeared negligible,
          but on market days (every three or four days), vehicular movement became significant, and
          was clear testimony to the fact that the roads had a positive impact on production and
          marketing of the farm produce in all the project states.

    18.   The concept of infrastructure in the rural development context under the CPRP, refers to a
          host of projects- rural link roads, market centres, civic centres, skills acquisition centres,
          health centres, schools, libraries etc. In the absence of these, rural people face hardships for
          productivity increase, marketing of products, access to healthcare and capacity building for
          development. The roads component under the project did boost agricultural growth and
          investment, household food supply and security, and investment in human capital. The
          roads improve access to markets for rural products and reduce transaction costs. More road
          intervention are still required as the population that remains in the rural and remote areas is
          vulnerable, as access to basic social services for most people requires long walking
          distances. Women and children when carrying their products to the market usually cover
          long distances. In Ogbogbo community in Dekina LGA in Kogi State, commuters had to
          cover a distance of 2 hours walking distance to the school and on market days, a distance of
          only 10 minutes by motorized transportation.



                                                    38
19.   There was evidence that the construction of rural roads acted as a catalyst to income
      generation in communities from all the 8 CPRP states. Isolated communities with little
      marketed farm produce prior to the road construction, suddenly had villagers taking their
      produce to market and realizing increased earnings. The impact was easily recordable in
      qualitative terms during focus-group discussions, though respondents were not able to give
      quantitative data with percentage increases or even data in the form of weight in kilogram
      of farm produce marketed over a period of time and increases in income derived from
      higher volume of transactions.

20.   The villagers kept no record of income and if they did they were not willing to share the
      information. It was only in a few instances that respondents quantified income increase in
      the form of cash from sale of produce where everything sold this year was compared to last
      year's income without expenditure accounted for. But from the responses of the
      beneficiaries to the questionnaire on the impact of the road project, it could be concluded
      that the road was beneficial to the community in every respect. The graph below shows the
      responses of beneficiaries to the road project.


                   Figure 1: Perception of Beneficiaries of Road Impacts




21.   Our field investigations show that out of a sample size of 134 respondents (from 22
      selected communities) that benefited from road projects, 128 persons representing 94%
      noted that the travel commuting times to the nearest market had been cut down greatly from
      about 2 hours to less than 30 minutes. 81% claimed increased vehicular movements on the
      road and 88% recorded increased commercial activities. Further, 78% percent claimed
      increase in farm produce marketed while 73% recorded reduced transport costs. Overall,
      the statistics record positive impacts but the percentage of growth in produce market and
      the income of the community members still remain largely unquantifiable.

22.   In summary, the intervention resulted in the following impacts as experienced by the
      beneficiaries:
·     Considerable reduction in commuting time

·     Elimination of frequent road closures during the rainy season due to flooding




                                              39
   ·     About 20% decrease in maintenance costs due to improved roads

   ·     Increase in ownership of motorized vehicles (motorcycles) as means of transportation

   ·     Increase in produce reaching markets

   ·     Increase in variety, cultivation and marketing of farm produce as perishable cash crops
         such as oranges, mangoes, and cashew nuts could be transported

   23.   Although the beneficiaries claimed great positive impacts, the Assessment Team's focus
         group discussions also showed positive impacts of roads and infrastructure of even more
         social gains than economic; relating to the ease of movement, migration, interaction and
         interaction of rural communities with other communities and towns.

   24.   Investment in roads lead to the creation of economic opportunity in the communities and
         the consequence to be expected is that communities would respond to the availability of the
         economic opportunity by starting income yielding enterprises or improving productivity in
         existing areas. The potential for growth in the communities are considerable, more land
         could be cultivated, and the markets could come to the communities rather than the farmers
         going to the markets. As the road becomes better known, commodity dealers would move
         into the rural markets. This evidence could be felt in Kogi State in the Ofu, Omala and
         Dekina LGAs where the people cultivate cashew cash crop, which produce buyers come to
         buy operating from Ayingba town in the State. Factors influencing response to new
         economic opportunity in the CPRP states include; the awareness of the potential of the
         project, the availability of finance, and the magnitude of possible benefits relative to
         alternative investment opportunities. These factors are all available in the CPRP projects
         and have the potential of being translated to quantifiable indices of poverty reduction.

   25.   An analysis of the overall percentage of project cost in the 8 states shows that roads
         amounted to 9.24%. The demand for roads ranked high in priority in the rural communities.

Impact of CPRP Projects on Social Services

Education

Quantifiable Project Impacts

   26.   Seventy-five (75) communities out of the 321 with education microprojects provided
         quantifiable data on the impact of education projects. The impacts of the education projects
         included increases in enrollment, increases in the number of teachers (job creation), and
         reduced truancy. (N.B. these results are based on a fairly small sample of respondents; the
         rapid impact assessment used extrapolations of representative figures). Details on these
         impacts follow:

Enrollment

   27.   Total enrollment for the schools where data were recorded increased from 18,124 to 29,575
         pupils in the 8 states, a percentage increase of 61.28%. In other words, 11,451 new pupils
         were enrolled as a result of the education projects of CPRP in those communities. Of the
         11,451 new pupils/students, 2,905 were girls raising the schools' girl population to 7,685; a
         62.20% increase prior to the projects' girl population of 4,780.


                                                  40
Teaching staff population

   28.   546 additional teachers were employed in the 8 States where respondents provided
         quantifiable indices, a 60.09% increase. Prior to the project, 822 teachers were in place in
         the 75 schools; after the project the number rose to 1,368.

Behavioural

   29.   The average students' truancy rate of 41% in the 8 States dropped to 11%. Outstanding
         among the States is Ebonyi with an average truancy rate of 75% prior to project which
         reduced drastically to 9% as a result of the project. Teachers' motivation generally
         increased from an average of 27% before the project to 56% while pupils/students
         motivation rose to 77% from an initial 32% prior to the project.




                                                  41
Other Project Benefits

    30.   A total of 1,119 education projects were funded by the CPRP, representing 37.31% of total
          funding. This was the highest number in any sector. Kebbi alone executed 352 projects,
          followed by Yobe with 209 completed projects, representing 18.68%, on education. Our
          field survey and findings indicated that the communities prioritized education as highly
          important and enrolment increased in the schools accordingly. The field surveys showed
          that while enrollment in primary education increased throughout all areas covered by the
          study, the gains were maximized in the areas where a road project coincided with a school
          project. Moreover, the quality of education was said to have improved as it became
          possible to recruit well-qualified teachers to staff the schools. Absenteeism of both
          teachers and students dropped. The collaboration of the LGA in regard to staffing of
          schools and payment of teachers' salaries is one of the great gains of the CPRP partnership
          and collaboration in involving government and the people jointly in development for the
          common good. Table 1 shows the perception of beneficiaries of Education projects (321
          persons) on the gains of the schools projects. At least 80% of respondents were of the view
          that there had been increased student enrolment, reduced truancy, reduced commuting
          times, better motivated teachers and students, reduced dropout rate, and increased number
          of girls attending schools. It is to be noted that in some instances data collection was
          hampered by the fact that some schools were closed (due to strike action) during the survey
          period, or the principals were unavailable, or the schools were new and students not yet
          enrolled.


                       Table 1: Beneficiaries' Perception of Project Impacts


                                               Total No
Assessment                          Yes   No   Response    % of Yes       % of No     % No response
Increased student enrolment         277   2    42              86.29           0.62       13.08
Reduced Truancy                     268   10   43              83.49           3.12       13.40
Reduced School Commuting times      261   16   44              81.31           4.98       13.71
Better motivated Teachers           272   7    42              84.74           2.18       13.08
Better motivated Pupils             277   3    41              86.29           0.93       12.77
Reduced dropout rate                270   7    44              84.11           2.18       13.71
Increased No. Of Girls in Schools   266   14   41              82.87           4.36       12.77
Increased No of Teachers            246   16   59              76.64           4.98       18.38
Increase in self employment         202   21   98              62.93           6.54       30.53
Reduction in School fees            76    28   217             23.68           8.72       67.60




                                                    42
Respondents were asked to assess the strength of the perceived impact prior to and after project
implementation. The questions under this were designed to find the constraints prior to project
implementation and whether the project had mitigated those constraints and to what extent. Figure
3 contains the analysis and shows that where the project was new, the communities felt that the
project had achieved the objectives and the degree of positive impact was rated 100%. However on
specific issues such as lack of books the project impact was rated 5.96%. This shows that the
problem of lack of books was still remaining even after project implementation.

                 Figure 2: Constraints in Education Sector before & after Project




    31.   The constraints of inadequacy of classrooms still remained with a satisfaction level of just
          6.38% which means that the beneficiaries require more schools from future CPRP
          interventions. The communities still have inadequate number of teachers. The communities
          were happy with the state of infrastructure of the projects but were interested in upgrading
          more of the dilapidated ones built through community efforts or by government. The
          quality of teaching has generally improved but the question of lack of teaching aids became
          more glaring recording no improvement but a worsened position. This is understandable in
          that with more schools added to the existing ones there would be demand for teaching aids
          which had always been in acute shortage even before the intervention of the CPRP schools.

Health Care

Quantifiable Project Impacts

    32.   Ten (10) health facilities in six states of the eight CPRP states were sampled. Records from
          the health centers show an increase in the number of persons using the facilities. The total
          number of people visiting the health facilities in the 6 surveyed States increased from 112
          to 746 over the course of the project. In Kogi State, patient figures rose from 52 before
          project execution to 510 after project commissioning. Deaths from disease fell from 256
          persons to 65 persons in the 6 surveyed states. In other words, 191 persons were saved
          after the projects were executed. Also, availability of drugs increased from 75 to 283 units.

    33.   Total qualified health personnel employed increased from 54 to 126 as a result of the
          projects while the total attendance of women at the facilities increased from 66 to 255.
          Cross River State has an initial attendance of 26 women that increased to 105 women post
          project



                                                   43
    34.   Infant mortality dropped from 177 infants before the project to only 21 infants after the
          project. Ebonyi State with an infant mortality of 90 dropped to 10 after the health projects
          were executed in these communities. The average cost of treatment dropped from an
          average of N4,924 to N1,916 in the five states data was collected.

Other Project Benefits


    35.   From synthesized findings from focus group discussions as well as results of both
          beneficiary and non-beneficiary responses to questionnaire, it appears that the rural
          population nearly doubled their use of health care facilities (primary health care and
          hospitals) and as was witnessed in the education sector, the quality of health services was
          enhanced as the supply of drugs improved and facilities and equipment were more readily
          available. One of the greatest achievements of the project in the health sector was the
          reduction of treatment costs with 57% of respondents attesting to reduction in medical
          costs. Surprising medical cost increase from N 0 to N50 in the sampled health center in
          Abia State. The reasons adduced for lower cost were that with the close proximity of the
          health care centres, transport costs and time had been grossly reduced both for clinic visits
          and drug purchases. However, some constraints remain after project implementation chief
          of which is lack of medical personnel. Doctors were a rarity at most of the centres but some
          had qualified nursing staff. Although clinics, many had only community health workers.

    36.   The CPRP must examine the possibility of providing health care personnel perhaps in
          collaboration with the NYSC rather than with the LGAs in the provision of health care
          services. The LGAs may be advised to work with the NYSC to post qualified doctors and
          nurses who are on the compulsory one year national service scheme to the rural
          communities. It was evident from our field observations that the LGAs had problems in
          providing qualified staff to work in the clinics.


                                 Figure 3: Impact of Health Projects




                                                   44
Water and Sanitation

   37.   Provision of water generally increased from an average of 8.1% to 87% in 31 communities
         in which quantifiable data was gathered. Communities in States like Abia and Ekiti had no
         source of sanitary water prior to project execution.

   38.   The average time spent on fetching water reduced to 16.4 minutes per day from an initial
         95.7 minutes (1hr 35.7min) while the cases of water-borne diseases fell from 1,792 to 469
         in the participating communities. Kwara, Kebbi, and Ebonyi States have outstanding cases
         that dropped after project execution.

   39.   The number of women fetching water on a regular basis decreased from 4,940 to 1,245
         while the number of children who fetched water also decreased from 3,520 to 1,215 in the 8
         States.

   40.   The average total for the communities indicate that the sum of money spent on water
         reduced to N17.00 from an initial N99 per household. Abia and Ekiti States have a high
         average of money spent on water that reduced drastically after the execution of water
         projects (N255 to N20 and N100 to N11 respectively). It should be noted however that
         some of the communities with water projects do not charge rates for the use of water.
         Instead the community elders, leaders and youths are levied and the revenue used for
         operating the water scheme.

   41.   Solid waste disposal improved from an average of 28% to 74% in the communities as a
         result of availability of water, and the incidence of infectious diseases dropped from 62.8%
         to 15.4%.

   42.   The percentage of farm produce marketed increased from 17.1% to 27.1%, on average
         among project states, as a result of better health conditions of the rural populace.

Socio-Economic Impacts of Rural Electrification

   43.   Rural electrification projects consisted mostly of connection of communities to the national
         grid. Abia State undertook 89 projects representing 52.98% of all the CPRP electrification
         projects in the 8 CPRP states. It is assumed that the predominance of the high demand for
         the project by the communities is as a result of the possibilities of exploiting the
         technological and industrial growth that could be derived from the project.

   44.   In three communities with data on electrification projects in Abia State, the communities
         were not connected to national grid prior to project execution. Therefore, the communities
         regard themselves as having 100% electricity supplies. On average, electricity supply
         improved from 7% to 68% in seven sampled communities in three states ­ Abia Kogi and
         Ekiti..

   45.   Average business productivity within these communities in four LGAs improved from 8%
         to 40% due to availability of electric power. Also, average income increased from N79.00
         to N174.00 daily. However, the cost of electricity increased from an average of N195.00 to
         N422.00 monthly.

   46.   The availability of electricity resulted in the establishment of i3 new businesses in these
         states, taking their number from 34 to 117. The number of technology-based businesses


                                                   45
            increased from 7 to 53. The number of business failures due to lack of electricity supply
            decreased from 99 to 66 business units.

      47.   On average, social activities within the communities increased from 18% prior to project
            execution to 49% post project.

      48.   From observations in the field and focus group discussions with the communities, one
            would caution that while electricity is recognized as a stimulus for business growth the
            gains have not yet began to be significant in the project communities as members
            complained of erratic power supply. In a few communities in Abia, Kogi and Ekiti State,
            businesses such as business centres, sawmills, hairdressing and barbing salons had sprung
            up in the communities. Some project communities reported that health conditions appeared
            to have improved through better living conditions (fewer snake bites, for example) at home
            and through the use of electricity in hospitals.

      49.   The availability of electricity to watch television had a palpable impact on the social life
            and well being of community members. They spoke of feeling more connected to the global
            community by being able to watch both local and international newscasts. This connection
            builds a sense of pride and self-esteem. Communities appreciated the ability to use and
            charge GSM telephones (hitherto a luxury limited to those who had easy access to
            neighbouring villages several kilometres-distant with electricity supplies). Villagers
            appreciated the improved social conditions that came with electrically lit evening activities.
            Several respondents mentioned the improved possibility of family members returning home
            from the city to set up home-based businesses and were hopeful that the rural urban drift
            and migration might decrease and villages is repopulated.

Finally, the outlook for the future is that rural electrification projects would translate to economic
gains: students studying longer hours and doing better in school; increased non formal education
requiring electricity (welding, sewing etc); increased enrolment in artisanship training; the return of
rural small industries requiring electricity.

Project Impact on Social Capital

      50.   Perhaps the strongest impact of the CPRP process found in the field is the social capital
            development in both participatory and non-participatory communities, alike. The
            implementation process emphasized and engendered collective action rather than individual
            action. Whereas there are only a few individuals who can achieve remarkable success,
            political economy derives its strength more from collective affirmative action. Although
            not an exact science, social capital has come to be recognized in recent times as very
            critical in poverty reduction programs. Being an Impact Assessment Study primarily and
            not a Social Capital Survey as suggested by the World Bank Working Paper No.183, the
            study could only generate some quantitative data on the immense resources now available
            to the communities in form of social capital.

      51.   In its simplest terms, social capital may be viewed as the powerful advantage (called
            capital, resources or benefits) created and available to a group of people by virtue of their
            coming together to associate for a goal or resulting from their connections to others and the


3
    Measuring Social Capital: An Integrated Questionnaire, 2004, IBRD/World Bank




                                                     46
               goodwill derived thereof. The impact of the association on the members is distinctly felt
               (though difficult to quantify). It remains with the group and can be a stepping stone for
               acquiring yet more social capital. In order to measure social capital, social scientists and
               economists have had to design tools and instruments which remain largely a work-in-
               progress. There are at least three recognized perceptions of social capital but the fusion of
               all views sees "social capital as those resources such as information, ideas, support, that
               individuals are able to procure by virtue of their relationships with other people. These
               resources ("capital") are "social" in that they are only accessible in and through these
               relationships, unlike physical (tools technology) or human (education, skills) capital, for
               example, which are essentially the property of individuals."4

      52.      The capital heads, derivable from varied sources include networks whether social
               informal/formal, organizations, connections to power whether political or economic etc.
               For example in Nigeria a lot of credence is attached to members of a community or to a
               community as a whole if one of its indigene ascends to a high political office or becomes
               the Chief Executive of a Financial Institution. Communities habitually leverage on these
               resources and a lot of this leverage was in evidence in the implementation of the CPRP.

      53.      Social capital was widespread in the CPRP process. The facilitation process employed
               throughout implementation led community members to form the representative groups
               (CDAs) needed to register the associations as legal entities with the State Ministry of
               Cooperatives and to open a project account in a bank. The groups had to elect Project
               Implementation Committee officers through a democratic process. By law, at least 2 of the
               officers had to be women, thereby reducing the male dominated entities of the past. The
               legal creation of the groups forced the community to be knowledgeable about the project.
               The process of identifying and selecting community projects had to be participatory and
               democratic, because the community had to collectively raise 10% counterpart funding for
               the project.

      54.      That members of the community interacted in a participatory manner in their respective
               groups is confirmed by the analysis of the Beneficiary Questionnaire. Ninety percent of all
               respondents described the process of project selection as participatory and democratic. The
               process to include consultations over a period with all age groups within the community
               and even a wider network of indigenes residing outside the country, the methods of
               generating project ideas based on communal needs and the process of prioritizing the
               project, including the selection of Management Committee (PIC) members was all judged
               as participatory.

            Table 2: Perception of Beneficiaries on the Participatory Process of Project Selection

                                                                SECTOR
FREQUENCY
                             Education       Transport        Health Water            Electricity     Totals
Yes                            294              113            98      137                71           713
No                              27               21            14       14                 3           79
Total No of
                                 321            134            112         151            74           792
Respondents


4
    ditto



                                                         47
% of Yes                  91.59          84.33         87.50       90.73          95.95        90.03
% of No                    8.41          15.67         12.50        9.27           4.05        9.97

   55.   The following developments, which represent social capital in the CPRP process were
         observed:

   ·     Community camaraderie developed as people met and related over a period of time and
         became partners in the collective progress and shared knowledge and information that were
         beneficial to all.
   ·     Community integration and inclusiveness was noted in many surveyed states: different
         tribes within the communities participated in the program as communities cooperated with
         one another for the mutual purpose of developing the rural infrastructure, beneficial to all.
         The Ohakiti Power Project in Kogi state was an excellent example of this. The community
         has at least 5 tribes including Owe, Ebira, Okun and in particular the Fulani nomadic
         settlers. At project onset, the Fulanis were unwilling to participate in the program, despite
         repeated requests, but towards completion the latter lost its distrust and joined in the work.
         It was greatly satisfying to see the Fulani community lit up with electricity and to see them
         happily open up their huts to the Assessment Team and the PIC members to show off the
         project gains. The Fulanis had only kind words steeped in gratitude for the Ohakiti
         Community which welcomed them and integrated them into the CPRP.
   ·     Trust and solidarity was fostered by the CPRP process. Members of the community had to
         collaborate on all issues to ensure the successful implementation of the projects and
         knowing that not all members could actively participate in project management, they had to
         place their trust in a few officers duly appointed by them to do the work. The enumerators
         did not witness many instances in which projects were truncated because of lack of trust
         although a few projects were recorded as having been withdrawn or cancelled by the State
         Agencies on such account. The communities also had to ensure that the contractors
         executed the contracts in accordance with agreed terms. This was achieved because most of
         the contractors were either indigenes or had close ties with the communities. Project leaders
         became popular and trusted, to the extent that those among them, who stood for elective
         political offices, won such elections especially at the local government level.
   ·     Collective responsibility was central to project success and every one in a household was
         aware of the project and worked for the good of all. The youth volunteered free labour in
         several communities in the North Central zone (Kogi and Kwara) while in some
         communities in Ekiti influential members in the society contributed expertise in technical
         matters free of charge.
   ·     Free information flowed within the communities because knowledge acquired from the
         State Agencies was disseminated clearly through the PIC members to the community, such
         that everyone was aware of the objectives of the CPRP and the targets to be met by
         communities especially as regards counterpart funds and completion dates and maintenance
         budget plans. The transparency within the process helped to build trust and a commitment
         to making the project successful. The free flow of information also helped open the
         communities to knowledge about markets for goods and services and gave them a voice to
         seek more information about government provision of public services.



                                                  48
   ·     Given a voice through the project, community-empowerment became an understandable
         concept. The knowledge gained through the CPRP process made communities aware of the
         shortcomings of the LGA in provision and management of rural infrastructure and would
         hopefully caution them on nonchalance about maintaining the assets they acquired with
         10% counterpart funding. Communities became actively involved in the processes leading
         to infrastructure provision in their communities in a demand driven approach. That this
         achievement becomes replicable is something every community should be geared towards.

Human Resource Development

   56.   Human capacity development was a major positive impact of the CPRP process. The
         capacity development process involved all cadres of persons in the implementation process
         through a top to bottom informational campaign. The Assessment Team found that the
         General Managers in all the states were highly committed to the objectives of the CPRP; to
         wit, the development of their own rural infrastructure. The people themselves selected the
         projects that they considered would benefit them most, enhancing their income standards
         and development. The GMs were also clearly committed to ensuring the fair and equitable
         distribution of the projects within the state in all the LGAs.

   57.   The senior members of the State Agencies were equally committed and knowledgeable.
         While it was an expected outcome that those who would manage the CPRP projects in the
         State Agencies would be trained and become experienced in the project procedure, it was a
         beneficial outcome that the community members especially the PIC members of the CDAs
         were adequately empowered in key success factors such as bookkeeping and accounts,
         procurement process, recording minutes etc.

   58.   The Assessment Team requested minute books and account books from a sample of
         community groups and found that records were well kept. Questions on procurement put to
         them were also answered satisfactorily. The expenditure on capacity building and
         consultancy services in all the 8 states was N 2,072,285,393.84 representing 17.6% of the
         total project costs. There is no doubt that the consultancy services and training would have
         a lasting effect on the beneficiary communities.

   59.   On the other hand, the Assessment Team found that the training modules for the PIC
         members were focussed too much on procedural aspects of project management, and not
         enough on the practical aspects. While the manuals required all projects to have a
         maintenance plan and a maintenance budget plan, for example, they did not mention the
         importance of training artisans in maintenance of the installed facilities. This deficiency
         had a particularly negative impact on road and water projects.

   60.   In some states -- Kogi, Cross River, Yobe and Kebbi -- a good number of the water projects
         were non-operative because of simple defects. The local project attendants had not been
         trained to fix them. The repairs had to be contracted out to artisans from far away towns or
         cities. In Kogi State there was no maintenance fund for diesel, or for the replacement of
         ordinary taps. Consequently, projects were grounded due to generator breakdowns, until
         the largesse of a community member (either the councillor for the area, influential indigene
         or chief) was brought to bear on the situation. In another area of Kogi, the CDA still
         expected the state agency to provide them with the money to replace a generator or pump,
         for example. On road projects, there was no noticeable maintenance crew or plan to



                                                  49
         quickly address simple problems like potholes which could result in erosion. It is a known
         fact that earth roads wear out more quickly than tarred roads, and without the ability to
         undertake prompt maintenance steps, the projects go into debilitation quickly.

   61.   In Cross River State the community found a way of restricting logging trucks to one section
         of the road constructed while other users kept to the other part of the road. This is at best a
         tenuous maintenance plan. Without cost recovery measures such as a road user charges, the
         maintenance plan would fail, expecting the LGA to assist in maintenance of such roads
         would need a high level of cooperation between the State Agency, the communities and the
         LGA, which cooperation is not palpably felt in the CPRP process with the present set up.

   62.   In all the instances of maintenance deficiencies mentioned above, there is concern over the
         noticeable failure of facilitation and supervision in the program. It may not be adequate
         only to train the PIC members on project implementation without taking them further on
         project maintenance, the gains of the process must continually be improved and harnessed
         for future use and growth. Consideration should be given to the possibility of setting up a
         project monitoring team within the LGA to continue on project completion until another 2
         years to monitor the maintenance culture and to teach basic maintenance skills. In this way,
         project sustainability could be more assured. It is suggested that the CDOs at the LGAs
         may be involved in this process of project monitoring.

Gender Inclusiveness and Impact

   63.   In Yobe and Kebbi States, some schools were set up for girls specifically and the reason is
         found in religious dictates rather than in any special leaning towards gender sensitivity and
         specificity. The CPRP procedure did, however, require gender inclusiveness in structure of
         the CDAs and the PIC, and in most states there were at least two women in the PICs. The
         Assessment Team found that a good number of CDAs had female Treasurers and female
         Secretaries. There was clear evidence of gender inclusiveness in all the states. In all
         communities visited, women were participating actively at meetings, appeared quite
         satisfied with projects implementation and did not feel cheated by the process. Schools
         were of great impact because the children were able to attend nearby schools and anxiety
         over their safety was lessened.

   64.   The most gender-inclusive state proved to be Ebonyi State. Here, the Assessment Team
         found projects implemented by women-only groups and by groups that were mainly
         comprised of women members. The Civic Skill-Acquisition Centre at Nkaliki Community,
         run by the St. Mulumba Catholic Community CDA, had 10 executive members, of which 6
         were women. The approximately 2000 CDA members are mostly women. The need to
         empower women informed the choice of the project. The centre includes a multi-purpose
         hall which can accommodate about 600 people, and in which there is a hair dressing unit, a
         computer unit, a fashion design unit and a catering unit. The Market Stalls at Umuoru
         Community, run by The Newlife Women's Association CDA is comprised mainly of
         women. The project was selected because there was no proper market structure in the
         community. There was only a small and unorganized make- shift market whose major
         market link was a 2 hour walk from the community. The project was chosen by the
         members of the association to give the women in the community a place to earn income
         close to their homes.

   65.   The road and water projects impacted positively on women and children in time savings
         and reduced workload. Historically, women have always borne loads on their head, walking


                                                  50
         through narrow paths and fetching water from nearby streams. These heavy and time-
         consuming tasks contribute to poverty in that women have barely time to do anything else
         productive at all. By reducing the time and fatigue of this heavy daily workload, CPRP
         projects have increased the capacity of the women's productivity and income. Observations
         from the field showed that women were able to attend market days more often since
         transportation was more available and more time was available.

   66.   Health and social well-being was observed to be better in the benefiting communities.
         Regarding health, the reduced time needed to get to health centers on good roads led to a
         higher attendance rate. Regarding social well-being, female respondents spoke of the
         ability to take some time out from work to participate in community activities and
         contribute to debate on matters concerning their welfare. They also spoke of increased
         output from their farms and reduced losses on perishable farm products such as tomatoes,
         fruits which they are able to get to the markets faster than before.

Impact on Non-Beneficiary Communities and Users


   67.   Four hundred and twenty-two (422) persons responded to the Non-Beneficiary survey
         instrument. Respondents were drawn from among CDA groups that had applied for projects
         but for some reason had failed to qualify for funding and from LGAs that had not been
         involved in the CPRP process. On questioning non-beneficiary populations, it was clear
         that the CPRP project was perceived as successful and desirable by non beneficiaries. Most
         non-benefiting CDAs were anxious for the second phase to begin and hopeful that they
         would benefit. A backlog of unsatisfied demands anxiously awaits the next tranche of the
         project.

   68.   About 81% of the respondents were of the view that the CPRP projects benefited
         communities other than the communities in which the projects were located; about 16%
         thought the benefit was restricted to the beneficiary community; while 3% did not respond.
         The positive impact is in the fact that non beneficiary communities were aware of the
         CPRP projects in other communities and the majority of them believed that the positive
         impacts were felt in other communities. The typical examples given were for schools, roads
         and health centers. A road in one community connected it to other communities and
         possibly linked the community to larger towns and markets. A health centre in one
         community meant that health care was available to as many as 10 neighbouring
         communities and the establishment of a school in one community meant that children of
         neighbouring communities had access. The spill-over effects were common in all CPRP
         states and these accounts for the positive responses from the respondents.


                    Figure 4: Spill-over Impact of CPRP to Non-Beneficiaries




                                                 51
   69.   As many as 350 respondents out of 422 were familiar with the participatory method of
         project selection in the CPRP states and thought the process to be democratic and
         appropriate for community development. 88 percent of the respondents rightly believed
         that the ownership of the projects should rest with the CDAs, while 77% also agreed that
         they should be responsible for the maintenance. About 13% of the non-respondents
         however thought the projects should be maintained either by the State Government or by
         the LGA. The irrefutable conclusion to be drawn from the awareness shown by non-
         benefiting communities is that the project impacted positively and is perceived as
         successful both as regards implementation and impact.

   70.   The success of the CPRP was perceived on an even more positive level when some non-
         benefiting communities became so challenged by the improvement in beneficiary
         neighbouring communities that they set in motion community self-help projects of their
         own and implemented them, fashioned after the CPRP model. In Kogi state most of the
         non-beneficiary CDAs had fulfilled all the conditions to qualify for the CPRP intervention
         and their PIC members had undergone training, but the State Agency did not have funds for
         the project. The CDAs in at least 2 such communities started constructing the school
         projects with direct labour. Interestingly, the self-executed projects were at near completion
         stage and had been built at a cost considerably less than what the communities would have
         spent as CPRP beneficiaries. It is estimated that such self-executed projects can be
         achieved at about half the cost of CPRP projects.

Other Project Impacts

   71.   The provision of rural infrastructure should offer a platform on which further development
         can be made. It is important to build an existing piece of infrastructure with the intention of
         building onto it, rather than to build it as a standalone entity. Growth depends on movement
         and not on stagnation, thus if a rural road is seen to be drawing business activities around
         an area or opening up access to towns, it may be wise to further improve the road by
         asphalting and encourage a road network development. In some instances especially in
         Kogi State, some CPRP rural roads were taken over by the LGA and tarred; some had
         drainage ditches constructed on both sides. Such development should be encouraged and
         even solicited. It is to the benefit of all concerned if, after the CPRP, the LGA is brought in
         to continue with the development and the CDAs encouraged and their capacity for lobbying
         developed to take matters of the development of their communities further. The larger
         vision of the CPRP project will be to get the LGAs to adopt the ideals of the CPRP in
         grassroots development and inculcate the financial and budgeting principles into the annals
         of public finance to the extent that communities are involved in annual budgets that are
         based on projects demanded by communities.




                                                  52
72.   Allegations of corruption or undue influence were not common observations in the field.
      Neither were situations of elite capture of the project noticeable. The participatory nature of
      CPRP projects allowed for transparency. It is a fact that when people are part of a process,
      they tend to trust in the process. Although there were instances where some members of
      CDAs raised queries on procurement issues from the PIC members and other instances
      where the projects were cancelled by the State Agencies when there were disputes within
      the CDAs, generally there was very minimal suspicion of corruption. Also there were many
      instances of elite influence of some magnitude but whereas such an issue might have been
      classified as undue influence, the observations on the field were rather on knowledge
      workers and power brokers helping by giving back to the community of their birth. The
      elite influence occurred in many ways. In the northern parts a lot of the communities made
      influential members of the community who had done philanthropic works in the past in the
      cities, the CDA chairmen or at least part of the executive. These people in turn helped in
      organizing fund raising for the counterpart fund. Fund raising involved village activities,
      calling on indigenes in the cities, making appeals countrywide and those abroad and
      levying all persons to contribute to the project. The influence of the elite members helped
      in procurement issues and because there was reciprocal trust, the members of communities
      did not doubt the integrity of their leaders and the leaders did not generally betray their
      trust. In Ekiti State for example, the indigenes (some retired judges, retired civil servants
      and private sector influential persons) were actively part of the CPRP process in the
      communities. At most project sites a board was erected to brand the project and
      acknowledge the contribution of persons to the project, with names of donors to the project
      published. This innovation had the positive effect of making other people want to be active
      in their communities and be part of the project.




                                               53
Electricity Supply

   73.   Electricity supply for households improved in Ekiti from 67.9% in 2006 to 74.0% in 2009;
         in Ebonyi, it increased from 27.3% to 58.0%, in Yobe, from 32.7% to 88.0%. It was only
         in Cross River that the figure dropped from54% in 2006, to 41.4% in 2009. All other states
         witnessed an increase in the supply of electricity during the period.

Education and Literacy Rate

   74.   In Ekiti State, the adult literacy rate increased from74.4% in 2006 to 90.9% of the
         households in 2009. Also, in Ebonyi, Cross River, Yobe, Kogi, and Kwara, substantial
         increases were witnessed between 2006 and 2009. Slight decreases were experienced in
         Cross River, Abia and Kebbi, with the worst decrease of 48.6% in 2006 to 40% in 2009, in
         Kebbi State. An apparent decline in the youth literacy rate was noted, but this was not
         backed by registration or school enrolment figures and consequently must not be taken as
         sacrosanct. The National Bureau of Statistics would offer a more authoritative account of
         the national and state literacy rate.

Medical Services

   75.   In Ekiti and Ebonyi States, medical services appeared to have dropped, In Ekiti, they
         moved from 84.4% in 2006 to 78.8% in 2009; in Ebonyi from 69.7% to 36%. On the other
         hand available medical services increased from 10% in 2006 to 71% in 2009 in Cross
         River, Abia, Yobe, Kebbi, Kogi, and Kwara.




                                                 54
Annex 6.          Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Introduction

¾        The 1-day stakeholders partnership workshop on maintaining and sustaining CPRP projects
in Kwara state was organised by the Kwara state Community-Based Poverty Reduction Project
(KWCPRP) as part of the final CPRP supervision mission to Kwara state by the World Bank on
25th march 2009. The objective of the workshop was to empower CPRP beneficiaries to understand,
prepare, and execute sustainability plans for community microprojects for sustainable livelihoods
and the improved quality of lives. It was also to enable participants to share contemporary
experiences on maintenance and sustainability of best practices among CPRP beneficiaries in the
state. Also, it was to provide an avenue for participants to better understand the role of stakeholders
in the design and implementation of appropriate sustainability plans at the community level.

    76.   A total of 320 participants attended the workshop, drawn from 127 benefitting
          communities, LGA Chairmen and their Community Development Officers (CDOs), Royal
          fathers of the benefitting communities, Desk Officers from relevant State line ministries,
          state government officials, Board Members of KWCPRP, staff of the KWCPRP, the World
          Bank supervision mission team, NGOs, and members of the press.

Opening Ceremony

    77.   The workshop was declared open by the Kwara state Deputy Governor His Excellency,
          Chief Joel Afolabi Ogundeji, ably represented by the Secretary to the State Government
          (SSG) Alh. AbdulGaniyu Cook Olododo. In his welcome address the General Manager of
          KWCPRP, revealed that the CPRP scheme has supported one hundred and twenty seven
          (127) community-initiated and managed projects which have positively impacted the lives
          of over 1.5 million persons across the 3 senatorial districts of the state. The discernible
          impacts of these projects, he stated, include improved teaching and learning in the schools,
          promotion of science, ICT and technical education, improved primary health care delivery,
          reduction in environmental degradation, a reduction in time spent by women in search of
          water, among others. Sustaining these benefits, he emphasized, is crucial if the
          developmental gains witnessed in the reduction of poverty levels in the benefiting
          communities is to continue. This, he concluded, was to be the focus of the 1-day workshop
          and its justification.

    78.   The TTL, on behalf of the World Bank, thanked the communities for a very successful
          project implementation in the state. He stated further that despite the late commencement of
          the project in Kwara State in 2005 the state had done very well.

Other highpoints of his remarks follow:
   i.     The World Bank applauded the partnership between the state and the communities, because
          it was obvious (in view of the many successfully completed and operating microprojects)
          that the state and the communities had fully understood and capitalized on the CDD
          approach to community development.
  ii.     About N 400,000,000.00 had been spent on microproject implementation in the state,
          representing 75% of total funds received from the World Bank.



                                                   55
 iii.        One of the successes was seeing the strength of community mobilization towards project
             execution and related community development issues.
 iv.         In the past, it was difficult for people to step beyond their poverty to work together on self
             help projects. The CPRP approach, however, has helped bring people together to execute
             projects for their community.
  v.         The CPRP has brought community cohesion.
 vi.         One of the weaknesses of the project (CPRP) was how to keep completed projects moving
             ahead, and that was the reason for the current gathering. The World Bank not only counts
             the numbers of successfully completed projects, but also the number of projects that
             endure. How should a project be maintained, so that it will be self-sustainable into the
             future? That is what the workshop was called for.
vii.         As the project moves to the next phase ­CSDP -- the communities should build on the
             activities begun during the first phase. The CSDP might develop new plans and projects,
             but it should also ensure that current projects are sustained.
viii.        The role of the LGAs in the CSDP will be to equip some of the facilities and provide staff
             to man them while, at the same time, to ensure maintenance of the completed projects.
 ix.         Workshop participants are encouraged to be active in the workshop and proffer ways of
             sustaining both current projects and the good partnership that has already grown up
             between the communities and the state Agency.

       79.   In declaring the 1-day workshop open, His Excellency acknowledged the successes
             recorded by the KWCPRP in complementing the efforts of the state government towards
             poverty reduction. He promised that the state government would support any genuine
             efforts/collaboration aimed at sustaining the gains of the project in the state. He observed
             that the workshop was important for a number of reasons:

    i.       That many development projects have failed to achieve their objectives because they have
             not taken cognizance of future needs of the beneficiaries into their design.
   ii.       To ensure that future generations benefit from projects of CPRP, it is incumbent on the
             present beneficiaries to fully understand the design and implement the plans.
  iii.       Partnership building is very important to efforts at sustaining projects. All stakeholders,
             including the Governments, the beneficiaries, the CBOs, the organized private sector, and
             donors, should work towards an active collaboration of projects. The vision and mission of
             the Federal Government and the World Bank for partnering with the State Government to
             organize the 1-day sustainability workshop are praiseworthy.

Technical Session

       Papers were presented by resource persons engaged by the KWCPRP and the KWCPRP as
       80.




       well as by Desk Officers from relevant line ministries of Education and Rural
       Development.
Highlights of the papers presented were as follows:

       ¾ The term `sustainability' was defined as "Any action or inaction which meets the needs of
         the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs."
       ¾ Four components of sustainability were identified:
             · Social sustainability;
             · Political sustainability ,
             · Technological Sustainability,
             · Economic Sustainability



                                                       56
81.      Sustainability plans are important to enable stakeholders to understand what the project is
         and why it is needed. They give program managers a road map of major goals and
         benchmarks for determining whether they are successfully reaching those goals.

82.      Some sustainability planning tools were as follows:
·        A self-assessment to benchmark progress made;
·        A logic model to clarify sustainability goals and measure progress toward their result;
·        Budget worksheets and financial forecasting tools to estimate the fiscal needs of a
         project or an initiative over the timeframe of the sustainability plan;
·        A Funding Source Evaluation to help determine appropriate sources for a particular
         project. The potential sources of funds and other resources for planning project
         sustainability could include: - grants, public subsidies, private donations, fund-raising
         events, in-kind support (e.g., equipment, volunteers), community support (e.g. rent-free
         building), membership fees, revenues earned from core business if any;
·         An environmental scan tool to take stock of the projects' external environment .The
         environmental scan tool is done using SWOT analysis.

83.      It was emphasized that sustainability planning should be done throughout the life of a
         project and that partnership building is the key to success for sustainability of CPRP
         projects. Those identified as partners in project maintenance and sustainability are the
         communities, the state government, LGAs, the private sectors and the NGOs.

84.     Some of the roles expected of partners in implementation of the sustainability plan were as
        follows:
      · Community Based Organization (CBO)

                 Membership drive

                 Education

                 Participatory Management

                 Resources Mobilization

      · Non Government Organization (NGO)

                 Facilitating

                 Community organization

                 Capacity Building

                 Training and Networking

      · Local Government Authority (LGA)

                 Technical Assistance

                 Extension Services



                                                  57
          Personnel Funding

· Local and International Donor Agencies

          Funding

          Technical Assistance

          Equipment

          Monitoring and Evaluation

· Organized Private Sector (OPS)




                                           58
   85.   Community representatives gave examples of what, in their experience, were the most
         important elements for ensuring project sustainability :

   ·     Setting up sustainability committees within the community responsible for overseeing the
         regular inspections and maintenance inspections of their respective projects.
   ·     The institution of user fees, especially in water projects. The fees are used for regular
         maintenance and for the repair of broken taps, pipes, submersible pumps and control panels
         whenever faults arise.
   ·     The institution of financial contributions managed by the executives for maintenance work
         in education projects: repair of louvers, for example (N.B. breakage by students are
         replaced by the students responsible).
   ·     Monthly contributions put into a centralized purse by households/compounds and
         administered by committees for the up keep and maintenance of their respective projects.
   ·      If ownership of projects has been sufficiently built into CBOs by the CDD approach,
         sustainability is quite probable.

   86.   Other participant comments :
   ·     Alh. M Ibrahim from Ojagboro community (Water Project) appreciated the agency and the
         World Bank. He advised fellow beneficiaries to take up the challenges of maintaining their
         projects as was being done at Ojagboro. He said that since the community started using the
         water project over two years ago there has never been any interruption in the use of the
         facility due to the strong maintenance structure put in place by the community.
   ·     Alh. S Yahaya, Chairman Imosokan community (Health Project) advised fellow
         participants to raise funds either from within or outside for the maintenance of the projects.
         He also admonished them to reach out to the Local Government for transfer of health
         workers and other support staff as necessary to the project, and for support in technical
         areas which could not be handled by the community.

Conclusion

   87.   The workshop achieved its objectives of educating the participants on the need to develop a
         sustainability plan and to execute such a plan in line with the project objectives.
         Communities also learned of methods they could adopt in order to maintain their own
         projects and to partner with other stakeholders, such as the LGAs, State Government,
         Private Sectors and NGOs for effective maintenance and sustainability of community
         microprojects.




                                                  59
Annex 7.   Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft
  ICRR


COMMUNITY-BASED POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT (CPRP)

                         World Bank Assisted

Evaluation of Project Implementation by the Federal Ministry of Finance




                                  60
           Introduction

           The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) received a credit from the International Development
           Association (IDA) for the Community-Based Poverty Reduction Project (CPRP) in December
           2000. The project operated as a social fund in 12 states of the Federation of Nigeria with the World
           Bank providing funding support for 8 states totalling over $85 million and the Africa Development
           Bank (AfDB) providing funding support for the remaining 4 states. The World Bank project
           became effective on September 28, 2001 and closed on March 31, 2009. The initial credit of
           USD$60m was coordinated by the National Planning Commission and the USD$25m
           supplementary credit was coordinated by the Federal Ministry of Finance. This evaluation is in
           respect of the World Bank's component which was implemented in Abia, Cross River, Ebonyi,
           Ekiti, Kwara, Kebbi, Kogi, and Yobe. CPRP is a poverty reduction focused project, a component
           of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) employing the Community Development (CDD)
           approach which has at its core the empowerment of the beneficiary communities to create,
           implement and maintain selected social infrastructure projects. Between September 2001 and
           March 31, 2009, the project supported more than 3,069 communities which completed over 3,100
           CDD schools, roads, health, water and rural electricity projects. Also, more than 10.3 million
           people benefited directly or indirectly from the CPRP.

                         Table 1. Summary of MP implementation across states since inception
Item                                 Abia        CRS     Ebonyi         Ekiti      Kebbi        Kogi       Kwara        Yobe        Total
Inception year                       2000        2001      2005         2001        2001        2001        2005        2001
Sensitization visits                  713          76        52           55         111          41         177           6        1231
Total application                    1215         936       248         1580        1067        1126         601        1554        8327
MP approved                           281         309       124          394         724         307         123         840        3102
Community trained (No)                976         293       124          393         724         396         123         840        3869
Funded MP (No)                        281         287       124          393         724         307         123         837        3076
On-going MP (No)                       41          30        46           54          48          19          24          45         307
Benefiting communities                279         282       124          393         724         307         123         837        3069
Completed MP in use                   200         257        78          317         675         283          99         792        2701
MP maintained after a year            140         248        40          293         631         201          99         792        2444
Staff trained (No)                     25          15        24           23          15          16          11          15         144
Monitoring & evaluation visits       2400        2664      1196         1401        3173         954         392        2414       14594
Studies conducted (No)                  3           3         0            1           1           4           0           1          13
Estimated pop. of comm           1,353,275   1,415,000   490,000   497,871      1,301,000   1,462,908   1,539,540   1,300,000   9,359,594
           Source: reports of states CPRP




                                                                   61
                   Table 2. Sectoral distribution of MP implementation across states
  Sector                                               Total                               Percent
  Health                                                264                                   9.66
  Education                                            1035                                 37.86
  Water supply                                          842                                 30.80
  Water transport                                         2                                   0.07
  Feeder roads, culverts etc                            257                                   9.40
  Environmental control                                  27                                   0.99
  Sanitation                                              8                                   0.29
  Rural electrification                                 161                                   5.89
  Market infrastructure                                  48                                   1.76
  Civic center                                           19                                   0.69
  Skill acquisition                                      55                                   2.01
  Others                                                 16                                   0.59
  Total                                                2734                                    100
 Source: reports of states CPRP



Health and Sanitation
Increased in the utilization of health facilities was observed. The multiplier effect of the
intervention is that more time and energy is saved for productive work such as farming, lucrative
business, and more importantly, improved sanitation has greatly reduced disease incidence.

Education
38% of the MPs across states were on education. This is expected to have increased the number of
enrolment in schools.

Water supply and water transport
The provision of portable water and improved sanitation has a high priority in the MDG and the
Johannesburg Plan of Implementation as a primary means of eradicating poverty. Water supply is
equally given high priority as about 30% of the MP implemented by the state agencies was on water
supply. Traditionally, the role of women and girls in convenient access to portable water is
particularly necessary, given their most exclusively responsibility for collecting, transporting,
boiling, and storing water for drinking, cooking and washing households effects, disposing of waste
water and maintaining household sanitation standards and facilities in rural areas. The benefiting
communities revealed that a major benefit from access to portable water is that the time formerly
spent fetching water from distance sources and preparing such water for human use can be engaged
instead in other productive activities, attending to farm, school, attending to children's health and
educational needs or simply rest. In most cases, before the intervention of CPRP rural people trek
up to 5 km to get to the nearest water point, stream or river. After the intervention, beneficiaries
claimed that the time has been reduced to about 100m on average and about 30m where water
points are reticulated. In summary, convenient sources portable are of great important to improve
human health, agricultural labour productivity, and hence, income generation as a result of CPRP
intervention.

Feeder roads and culverts
Studies have shown that one of the main contributions of infrastructural development to economic
growth operates through its ability to facilitate market access, the marketing of agricultural


                                                  62
products, and thus a structural move from subsistence-based agriculture to increased
commercialization. According to the benefiting communities, the investment in this rural
infrastructure has easy transportation drudgery, enhance agricultural productivity consequently
increase farmers' income. This shows that improved access to roads, and greater availability and
affordability of transport services, are the direct and immediate ways in which the expansion of the
rural infrastructure network can benefit households.

Rural electrification
Substantial number of the rural poor has been empowered economically through rural
electrification projects. Commercial activities such as grinding, ice-block making, sales of sachet
water and drinks etc are now common in the benefiting rural communities. In addition, small-scale
businesses like barbing salon, hair dressing salon, welding working can now be establish at
minimum cost as claimed by the rural poor.

Market infrastructure
Since one of the main contributions of infrastructural development to economic growth operates
through its ability to facilitate market access and marketing of agricultural products, CPRP could
claim to have performed well through structural movement of subsistence-based agriculture to
increase commercialization in the benefiting communities.

Civic Center and skill acquisition center
Construction of skill acquisition centers has reduced idleness by creating jobs. In addition, the
social and economic benefit of orphanage, library, and town hall cannot be overemphasized.

Financial accounting and explanation of variances from the budget
Based on appropriate means of verification, the M&E exercise revealed that the financial
accounting performance in all the states was satisfactory. The financial and the audit reports were
prepared routinely. In the process of implementing CPRP, some variances were reported.

The variances arose from one a combination of the following (1) delay in approval of MP (2)
delay in retirement of expenses by the community (3) changes in foreign exchange rate (4)
general increase in prices of materials.
Analysis of the sectoral distribution of funds on MP revealed that about N3.41b has been expended
on education this represents 41%, N1.6b on water supply representing about 20%, and N1b on road
related projects representing 13% as shown in Table 3. In all, about N8.4b has been spent on MP
across states in all the eight CPRP states.

Figure 1 reveals that on average 74 percent of project financing was allocated to community
grants which are in line with the project concept. Table 4 shows the comparative distribution of
the amount disbursed for the project and the amount expended on MP across states. The other areas
of project financing are goods, consultancy, and operating costs.




                                                  63
                                                           Table 3. Sectoral disbursement of fund on micro projects
Sector                                                                                                                  Total (N)                       Percentage
Health                                                                                                        789,583,347.5                                    9.4
Education                                                                                                3,431,488,366.0                                     41.0
Water supply                                                                                             1,649,587,780.3                                     19.7
Water transport                                                                                                     5,700,180.0                                0.1
Roads/culverts/drainages                                                                                 1,093,137,652.9                                     13.1
Environmental control                                                                                              85,917,474.7                                1.0
Sanitation                                                                                                  17,920,196.0                                      0.2
Rural electrification                                                                                      713,542,457.7                                      8.5
Market infrastructure                                                                                      250,646,485.8                                      3.0
Civic center                                                                                               160,745,754.9                                      1.9
Skill acquisition centers                                                                                   95,283,802.2                                      1.1
Others                                                                                                      74,212,904.1                                      0.9
Total                                                                                                    8,367,766,402.2                                    100.0
Source: reports of states CPRP



                                            Figure 1. Percentage of the total fund expended on MP across states


                                     90
                                                                                                                                       82
    % of total fund expended on MP




                                                                                                              80
                                     80                     75                                   74
                                                                                                                          76
                                                                                                                                                   74
                                                                                  70
                                                  67
                                     70                               64

                                     60
                                     50
                                     40
                                     30
                                     20
                                     10
                                      0
                                                                                                                                              ge
                                                                     yi
                                             ia




                                                                                                                                  be
                                                                             ti




                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                             i


                                                                                                         gi
                                                       RS




                                                                                          bb
                                                                              i




                                                                                                                    ar
                                                                  on
                                          Ab




                                                                           Ek




                                                                                                      Ko




                                                                                                                                            ra
                                                                                                                               Yo
                                                                                       Ke
                                                       C




                                                                                                                   Kw
                                                                 Eb




                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                                                                                        Av




                                                                                           States




Table 4 presents the actual amount available for the project and the amount disbursed to MP since
inception. It shows that Yobe accounted for about 20% of the amount disbursed on MP. This is
followed by Kebbi (16%) and Kogi (15%).




                                                                                                                    64
                                    Table 4. Financial disbursement on MP
State            Amt disbursed SI              Amount disbursed for MP   MP/SI*100    % disbursed on MP
Abia               1,786,407,464.99                   1,198,161,016.22        67.07                14.11
CRS                1,525,585,276.00                   1,148,799,582.00        75.30                13.53
Ebonyi               678,068,274.00                     432,112,823.00        63.73                 5.09
Ekiti              1,341,092,000.00                     940,753,000.00        70.15                11.08
Kebbi              1,895,424,679.45                   1,395,688,488.65        73.63                16.43
Kogi               1,597,122,843.65                   1,279,147,550.39        80.09                15.06
Kwara                516,056,523.06                     393,313,335.24        76.22                 4.63
Yobe               2,074,885,351.00                   1,704,429,555.00        82.15                20.07
Total             11,414,642,412.15                   8,492,405,350.50        74.40               100.00
Source: reports of states CPRP



Figure 2 shows the sources of fund commitment to CPRP. The total funds committed to project
from all sources stood at about N10.44b. The figure revealed CPRP has contributed N8.9b, State
govt (N434.7m), Local govt (N55.5m) and benefiting communities (N1.044b).

                                 Figure 2. Sources of funds committed to CPRP
              Sources of funds committed to CPRP (in millions)
                                  Community,
                                   1,044.50
                             Local Govt,
                               55.50
                            State Govt,
                              434.67




                                                   CPRP, 8,900.00




For proper financial monitoring, a comparative analysis of fund allocated to goods, consultancy,
grants and operating costs is presented in Table 5. The table revealed that Ebonyi CPRP expended
about 5 percent of the fund on goods while Yobe CPRP expended just 0.06 of the total fund on
goods. Under consultancy, Abia CPRP had the highest percentage of about 22 while Kwara had the
lowest. Under operating costs, Cross River and Ebonyi States CPRP expended about 10 percent
Kebbi expended about 4 percent. This variation in fund application across states is clearly shown in
Figure 3.




                                                        65
                                              Table 5: Fund application by state agencies
s/no            State                              Goods       Consultancy              Grants             Operating costs    Total
    1           Abia                                1.64              21.91              67.07                       9.38    100.00
    2           Cross River                         1.86              12.64              75.31                      10.19    100.00
    3           Ebonyi                              5.13              20.40              63.73                      10.74    100.00
    4           Ekiti                               2.14              21.13              70.15                       6.58    100.00
    5           Kebbi                               2.32              19.92              73.42                       4.34    100.00
    6           Kogi                                3.35              14.99              76.22                       5.44    100.00
    7           Kwara                               1.77              12.87              80.09                       5.27    100.00
    8           Yobe                                0.06              16.15              79.09                       4.70    100.00
                Average                             2.28              17.50              73.14                       7.08    100.00
Source: Agencies reports


                                               Fig 3: Fund Application by state agencies

                                    Financial monitoring - fund application
                                                                                                  Goods
                25.00                                                                             Consultancy
                                                                                                  Operating costs
                20.00
    Pecentage




                15.00


                10.00


                 5.00


                 0.00
                                                         iti




                                                                                 gi
                                               yi




                                                                 bi
                                        r
                          a




                                                                                        be



                                                                                                     e
                                                                           a
                                        e




                                                      Ek
                                              on
                           i




                                                                                                   ag
                                                                               Ko
                                                                  b


                                                                       ar
                        Ab



                                     iv




                                                                                      Yo
                                                               Ke
                                    R




                                                                      Kw
                                            Eb




                                                                                                er
                                ss




                                                                                             Av
                               ro




                                                                 States
                           C




Evaluation of Administration and management performances

Administration and management performances of the CPRP agencies were evaluated based on their
statutory roles as part of the overall framework of the Nigerian poverty reduction strategy. The
M&E exercise, using appropriate means of verification, revealed that the state agencies have
performed satisfactorily well in the following areas:

        1. Creating awareness, mobilization and advocacy for action against poverty
        2. Mobilizing communities for collective action against poverty
        3. Capacity building to strengthen local communal institutions for development
        4. Assisting communities in conducting participatory social/institutional needs assessment


                                                                               66
    5. Appraise, approve, finance, monitor, and evaluate all MPs
    6. Judicious use of funds from donors and government for community-based rural
        development
    7. Reaching the poorest of the poor. Although this is limited in some states by terrain
        problems
    8. Monitoring development activities across sectors
    9. Report periodically to all stakeholders on project progress


However, much has to be done in the following areas.
    1. Periodic conduct of social/welfare surveys
    2. Production of documents to promote and showcase the activities of CPRP
    3. Intensification of sensitization efforts on lagging communities. Lack of this has resulted in
        the concentration of MP in few LGAs as observed in most states
    In summary, the administration and management performances would be improved by giving
    the heads of department power to make approval up to a limit without the approval of the GM.
    Also, the internal auditor should report probably to the board and not the GM. If possible, the
    dual role of the project accountant as administration officer and accounting officer should be
    revisited.


Team performance
Team performance in the M&E exercise was assessed in terms of cohesiveness and cooperation
among stakeholders. This was considered using three categories viz cohesiveness and cooperation
among management staff members, between management staff and other staff members and
between the team and the benefiting communities. The assessment revealed that performance of the
team across states has been wonderful. This could be attributed to the managerial skill of the GM,
the competency of staff members, and various workshops and seminars attended. However, there is
bound to be hiccups in situation where the GM is overbearing.

Formative evaluation of CPRP
For the purpose of this report, evaluation is taken as comparison of actual project effects against the
agreed strategic plans. Specifically, it looks at what CPRP set out to do, and what the project have
accomplished, and how the project accomplished it. In this M&E exercise, formative evaluation
was adopted because formative evaluation takes place during the life of a project with the intention
of improving the strategy or way of functioning of the project. Another form of evaluation is
summative which draws lessons from a completed project. The formative evaluation was focused
on efficiency, effectiveness, replicability, sustainability and impact.

Efficiency reveals the appropriateness of the input into the work in terms of the output. This could
be input in terms of money, time, staff, equipment and so on. Efficiency element is very important
in project's replicability. Effectiveness is a measure of the extent to which a development program
or project achieves the specific objectives it set. As regards replicability, the evaluation should also



                                                  67
determine whether a successful project or successful aspects of the project could be replicated.
Sustainability tends to determine if the project outcomes and impacts will be sustained without
continuing external financial or technical support. Impact assessment reveals whether or not what
you did made a difference to the problem situation you were trying to address. However, impact
element is beyond the scope of this study. To this end, Federal Ministry of Finance is in the process
of commissioning a consultancy firm to anchor the substantive impact evaluation of CPRP.

Efficiency
M&E exercise revealed that inputs committed to MP implementation in terms of money, time,
equipment and quality staff members were used in the best possible ways. This is reflected in the
quantity and quality of MPs in all the states. A comparative analysis revealed that a block of four
classrooms constructed by CPRP for about N5m goes for about N10m if executed by government
functionaries. As at the time of this exercise, about N8.4b has been spent to implement 2734 MP
with an average of N2.8m for one MP. In the final analysis, CPRP has been very efficient in the use
of resources.

Effectiveness
The overall goal of the CPRP is to enable the poorest of the poor have access to social and
economic infrastructure and to increase the availability and management of development resources
at the community level with the aim of tackling poverty which is the key Millennium Development
Goal (MDG). This is expected to be achieved by producing many positive human development
impacts including improved school attendance, improved rural mobility, reduced cost and time
required for fetching water, increased water volume usage, increased health center attendance,
increased rural electricity coverage, and increased rural market activities. CPRP has implemented
MP across sectors ­ water and sanitation, education, primary health care, rural electrification, feed
roads, skill acquisition market infrastructure, erosion control and information and equipping of
television viewing centers. The M&E exercise revealed that communities have benefited from the
output of the activities as elaborated earlier. Till date, the exercise revealed that on the aggregate,
about nine million five hundred thousand citizens are benefiting directly from the output of CPRP
in all the eight states combined.

Replicability and sustainability
The formative evaluation revealed that the structure, conduct, approach, management of CPRP
could be replicated. As shown earlier, sustainability determines if the project outcomes and impacts
will be sustained without continuing external financial or technical support. In CPRP, benefiting
communities are mandated to put a sound sustainability measure in place so as to maintain assets
created to ensure availability all year round. This gives the progress towards establishing the
capacities, structures, and systems necessary to ensure that the project outcome will be sustained,
institutionally and financially, beyond the life of the project. Sustainability measure put in place by
most communities is to collect a token form the beneficiaries of the MP. The money realized is
expected to be use to maintain the infrastructure. This measure is common in maintaining MP such
as water project, rural electrification, market stalls, civic centers, viewing centers, and medical
centers.

Impact
Impact refers to medium or long-term developmental change. Measures of change often involve
complex statistics about economic or social welfare and depend on data that are gathered from
beneficiaries. However, for the purpose of this exercise, the indications of impact were obtained by
surveying beneficiaries' perceptions about project services. As a result, the impact element of this
report is not empirical. The substantive impact assessment coming up very soon will provide


                                                  68
empirical evidence of the impact of CPRP on the benefiting communities and to reveal whether or
not what you did made a difference to the problem situation you were trying to address.

Situation analysis
Constant monitoring and reviewing a project's strengths, weaknesses, threats and opportunities
(SWOT) is very vital to the success of the project. The purpose of a situation analysis in this M&E
exercise is to investigate the project's own strengths and weaknesses (internal analysis) and
discover the threats and opportunities in the environment (external analysis) so it can avoid the
threats and take advantage of the opportunities. Strengths and weaknesses arise from within the
organisation and therefore are in large measure controllable. Threats and opportunities, however,
have their origins in the external environment and are, for the most part, outside the direct control
of the organisation. Nonetheless, an organisation that is carefully monitoring changes in the
external environment is in a position to anticipate events.

Strengths of CPRP
    ·   Accountability and transparency in fund administration
    ·   Use of community-driven development (CDD) approach
    ·   Complete autonomy and legal status of CPRP i.e. CPRP administration is devoid of
        bureaucracy
    ·   Lack of political interference i.e. right people doing the right job. Using professional from
        the private sector

Weakness of CPRP
   · Auditor reporting to the General Manager
   · CPRP board is not equipped to function
   · CPRP management rests solely of the leadership qualities of the General Manager
   · General Manager being the only management staff that can approve.


Opportunities for CPRP
   · Possibility of CPRP collaborating with other donor agencies in development work for
       example, construction of clinic by CPRP and EU MPP6 purchasing medical items or drugs
   · Partnership with local and state government in the areas of providing personnel to
       communities most especially schools and medical centers.

Treats to CPRP
   · Possibility of elite capture of community projects
   · State and local government may pose problems as cost of MP implementation in CPRP is
        far below that of the local and state government.
   · Possibility of desk officers exploiting community either by taking charge of the project or
        taken money from them.
   · Nonpayment of PIC members affects their zeal.

Assessment of the Operation's Objective, Design, Implementation and operational experience

Project documents examined as well as observations made and discussions with the State Agencies
and the community members, confirmed that conceptually, the CPRP was well grounded in all
the project states. There was copious evidence that the General Managers and all the staff
involved in the structure and implementation of the projects in all the benefiting states were


                                                 69
committed to the objectives and had total stakeholder "buy-in" philosophy. In some states, even the
drivers of the Agencies were able to articulate the project ideology and had very useful insights into
project components, success and failure risk factors. The capacity of the officers of the State
Agencies to reach the grassroots through targeted facilitation is adjudged greatly successful.

The consensus among the citizens of communities in the beneficiary states and even those of
neighbouring non- benefiting communities was that the CPRP implementation process employing
the CDD methodology was transparent, free of corruption usually prevalent in some other project
designs, empowered the local and ordinary people to prioritise their social infrastructure needs,
contribute to the funding of the projects selected and take active control of the maintenance and
sustainability of the projects. In all the communities in the 8 project states, the beneficiaries attested
to positive impacts of the projects to their communities in form of increased income earning
capabilities though easier access to markets, improved social networking through road networks
isolation, improved quality of life through health care facilities and particularly, access to education
within the locality for children.

It may be concluded that when the project objectives of the CPRP is assessed with the evidence
observed in the field, that the CPRP has adequately met its core project development objective
which is in the achievement of improved access of the poor to social and economic infrastructure
through the projects. There is increase in the availability and management of development
resources at the community level. All beneficiary communities were able to raise the counterpart
fund requirement for the project through communal effort. There was substantial increase in social
capital build up and mobilization in all the communities. The process resulted in increased funding
controlled by communities for developmental purposes. The process also led to community
camaraderie, community integration, trust and solidarity within the community, thus the spirit of
collective responsibility, empowerment of the community through financial capability and a voice
through the project, was engendered.

Assessment of Outcome of Operation against agreed objectives
The CPRP also achieved output objectives as there were improved services and infrastructure in the
communities that benefited from the projects. The project supported 303 health projects, 1,120
education projects, 925 water projects, about 300 feeder roads and culverts, and 168 rural
electrification projects during the implementation period. 243 km new roads were constructed, 355
km of roads are under construction and 2,699 km of roads were rehabilitated in the beneficiary
communities. All these achievements were possible through the improved capacity of the Federal
Government to support, monitor and evaluate poverty reduction projects throughout the country.
There is no gainsaying that the CPRP recorded great success in all the 8 project states. Curiously,
perhaps the greatest attestation to its success is in the great desire by non-benefitting states and
communities to partake in the process in the future and also the fact that demand for funding
outweighed supply with many communities having raised and deposited counterpart fund in banks
without the respective state agencies being able to provide matching funds. Some of the outcomes
may be summarised as follows:

·    Institutional capacity development was achieved through the CPRP. The capacities of the state
     government, the state agency for poverty reduction, the officers and the CDOs at the LGAs for
     project implementation were greatly enhanced through the project. The state agencies
     consulted adequately with the Stakeholders. A total of 1,256 sensitization visits were made to
     all the 8 project states by the state agencies during the project implementation.

·   The capacity of communities was positively so developed through the CPRP as to make them
    similar to corporate persons with the ability to conceive communal goals, prioritize the goals in


                                                   70
    order of importance and through participatory methods be able to rank and select one common
    project that will serve the interest of all, for development.
·   Communities were able to associate in common interest groups for social capital formation and
    development, elect leaders into positions, understand the difference between leadership for
    action and ceremonial leadership and thus were able to appoint capable hands in the PICs,
    integrate women and the disadvantaged group into the CDA leadership to achieve positive
    outcomes of the CPRP process;
·   In terms of income improvement, the result of the Household survey showed promising growth
    in the income of households in the project communities. In Ekiti for example, the households
    that classified themselves as poor in the Year 2006 was 66.9%. This figure had dropped to 52%
    by 2009. Gender accessibility to credit facility improved in all the 8 states.
·   In all other states, there was also increase in income between the period 2006 and 2009. In
    Ekiti, Ebonyi, Abia, Yobe, Kebbi, Kogi, and Kwara States, the housing tenure for households
    appeared to have improved as many of the households enjoy better secured housing tenure in
    Year 2009 when compared with the situation in Year 2006. For example in Ekiti, in 2006,
    32.8% of the households have secure housing tenure, while the figure has increased to 46% in
    2009, with the highest increase witnessed in Yobe with a figure of 41.2% in 2006 and 99% in
    2009. It was only in Cross River that a drop from 41.9% in 2006 to 31.3% was experienced in
    2009.
·   While it is still too early to feel considerable impact of the CPRP intervention as some of the
    projects for examples schools, clinics, electricity projects are yet to be put into full operation
    for the impact to be felt and measured, the fact that such improvements in household income
    have began to manifest is encouraging and can lead to optimism that the future impact
    measurements will be more significant.
·   Although the quantifiable data response rate was not in all sectors in response to the
    Beneficiary survey instrument, from the available data, average commuting times of 75 minutes
    (1hr 15min) prior to projects was reduced to only 24 minutes as a result of the road and bridges
    constructed or rehabilitated. Vehicular traffic along these roads and bridges increased from 202
    to 719 vehicles per day plying the roads constructed or rehabilitated in the 8 States where data
    was given. Outstanding among the States is Kogi with only 27 vehicles plying the routes prior
    to the project and 355 vehicles daily after project execution. As a result of the infrastructure
    projects in these communities, data gathered revealed that commercial activities along the
    routes and within the communities increased generally from 26% to 68%.
·   Average transportation costs also decreased in majority of the States as transportation cost total
    average dropped from N126.00 to N76.00. Incidence of flooding along the roads, bridges and
    within the communities reduced from an average of 60% before the projects to 20% in all the
    States where projects were executed. Abia State had a high incidence of flooding (90%) that
    fell drastically to 10% in the communities where roads, bridges or drainage projects were
    executed;
·   Rural development schemes on the project enhanced rural infrastructure in terms of rural
    connectivity and infrastructure development.
·   All CPRP projects were beneficial to communities in which they were established as well as
    neighbouring communities. The CDD approach as well as the PRA method employed in project
    design and implementation has contributed to capacity building of local communities to be
    partners in their own progress;
·   In a great number of cases prior to the road construction villagers had been completely cut off
    from main market centres and had been forced to either curtail cultivation of farm produce to
    reduce waste if they were unable to sell, or they often missed market days because of
    inaccessibility of roads or they paid exorbitant transport rates to the few vehicular transports
    available such as the motorcycle etc. Sometimes the access to other markets was blocked due to



                                                 71
    a broken down wooden bridge or culvert. Some of these adverse situations were reversed
    through the CPRP;
·   There are still a large numbers of needy communities who did not benefit from CPRP in the
    participating states. These non-beneficiary communities should be considered for intervention
    in next phase. Some communities have classes under the shade of mango trees in the absence of
    classrooms;
·   37.3% of the CPRP projects in the 8 states were in the education sector, followed by the
    demand for water supply with 30.73%. Clearly the CPRP has greatly enhanced the Federal
    Government of Nigeria's National Policy on Education as regards the Universal Basic
    Education by reaching into the rural communities which hitherto had no primary and secondary
    schools.
·   Total enrolment for the schools where quantifiable data were recorded increased from 18,124 to
    29,575 pupils in the 8 states, a percentage increase of 61.28%. In other words, 11,451 new
    pupils were enrolled as a result of the education projects of CPRP in those communities. Of the
    11,451 new students, 2,905 were girls raising the schools' girl population to 7,685; a 62.20%
    increase prior to the projects' girl population of 4,780.
·   There was about a 60.09% increase in the number of teachers employed as a result of the CPR
    education projects. 546 additional teachers were employed in the 8 States where respondents
    provided quantifiable indices. There were 822 teachers in the 75 schools prior to the project and
    after the intervention, there were 1,368.
·   There was evidence that truancy rate dropped in the project states from 41% in to 11%.
    Outstanding among the States is Ebonyi with an average truancy rate of 75% prior to project
    which reduced drastically to 9% as a result of the projects. Teachers' motivation generally
    increased from an average of 27% before the project to 56% while pupils/students motivation
    rose to 77% from an initial 32% prior to the project.
·   Attendance at health centres in project states showed expected increase especially since there
    had been no such facilities in the communities prior to project implementation. In the
    communities where data was available attendance increased from 112 to 746. Deaths from
    diseases fell from 256 persons to 65 persons in the states where data was available.
·   Total qualified health personnel employed increased from 54 to 126 as a result of the projects
    while the total attendance of women at the facilities increased from 66 to 255. Cross River State
    had an initial attendance of 26 women that increased to 105 women post project
    implementation.
·   Infant mortality dropped from 177 infants before the project to only 21 infants after the project.
    Ebonyi State with an infant mortality of 90 dropped to 10 after the health projects were
    executed in these communities. The average cost of treatment dropped from an average of N
    4,924 to N 1,916 in the five states data was collected.
    · CPRP projects engendered community cooperation and integration and united different
        tribes for a common purpose; all the correct prerequisites for project sustainability are
        present in the CPRP. The communities selected the projects, contributed to the funding,
        procured the goods and services and supervised the project implementation and set up
        maintenance committees. Sustainability appears assured with this kind of arrangement.
        The question whether sustainability in real life would be achievable however would depend
        on sustenance of the arrangements that had been put in place.
    · In the final analysis, Evaluation concluded that CPRP is relevant, efficient, effective,
        and sustainable and had impacted well on the life of the rural poor.

Lessons Learnt and Way Forward
For continued success in subsequent projects of this nature some of the key recommendations are:




                                                 72
   ·   Future project design should seek to allot greater role and responsibility to the LGAs so that
       the institutional capacity of the LGAs will be enhanced to collaborate with communities in
       the maintenance and sustainability of projects already established and also in record
       keeping of impact of CPRP projects on the communities;

   ·   The follow-up projects to the CPRP should also make provision for technical assistance for
       the capacity of LGAs to be so developed that the lessons and experiences learned on the
       CPRP should be reflected in the process of project selection, financial discipline,
       accounting and budgeting procedure at the LGA;

   ·   The partnering of the LGAs with the CPRP to staff the schools and the clinics under the
       project is one of the success stories of the project. The benefiting communities will
       continue to have problems in staffing schools and clinics under the CPRP. Future projects
       should consider this kind of partnership to be a standing arrangement under the project;

   ·   Partnering with the NYSC should be considered for the supply of health personnel for the
       clinics under the project. LGAs could work with the NYSC secretariat to post qualified
       doctors and nurses during the one year compulsory national service to rural communities;

   ·   The need to provide insurance cover for the assets acquired under the program should be
       addressed in future projects. The project documents did not specifically require insurance
       of assets as a condition under the CPRP. It is important to incorporate some form of all risk
       insurance against theft, fire and general risks to cover the tangible assets acquired under the
       project. Insurance premium on this is usually minimal. A general insurance scheme for all
       assets of the CPRP can be entered into for all CPRP projects in the participating states to
       benefit from.


Performance of the World Bank

 The WB has the responsibility of appraising, approving, financing, supervising, monitoring and
evaluating the project. The World Bank performed credibly above average but supervision was not
enough even though the project was a pilot. The States and the Federal Ministry of Finance had a
good implementation relationship with the World Bank.




                                                73
Annex 8.        List of Supporting Documents

    ·   Project Implementation Plan

    ·   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

    ·   Project Progress Reports.

    ·   Project Appraisal Document for Federal Government of Nigeria: Community Based
        Poverty Reduction Project (CPRP) dated November 17, 2000 (Report No: 21396-UNI)

    ·   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated September 2009


*including electronic files




                                              74
MAP




      d




      75
