i s a  r    o  n  n  v           Document of
ILE  OurPY                               The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2254-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
April 24, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977    March 20, 1978
Currency Unit     -      Cruzeiro (Cr$)        Cr$
US$1               -     Cr$14.1               16.845
Cr$1               -     US$0.07               US$0.06
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNPU     =    Comissao Nacional de Regioes Metropolitanas e
Politica Urbana
EBTU     =    Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos
FDTU     =    Fundo de Desenvolvimento de Transportes Urbanos
FNDU     =    Fundo Nacional de Apoio do Desenvolvimento Urbano
GEIPOT   =    Empresa Brasileira do Planejamento dos Transportes
Urbanos
TOPICS   =    Traffic Operations Programs to Increase Capacity
and Safety
kph          - Kilometers per hour
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                        Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                          US$88 million equivalent
Terms:                           Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years
of grace, at 7.5% per annum.
Prolect
Description:                   The project would improve urban transport
services in five metropolitan areas: Belo
Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Recife
and Salvador, giving special emphasis to
the provision of public transport to the
urban poor. It would include traffic
engineering measures to improve circulation
in central areas; introduction of exclusive
bus lanes; traffic operations programs to
improve capacity and safety (TOPICS) to
alleviate critical congestion points;
widening or construction of missing links
in the urban road networks; reorganization
and construction of bus terminals; and
paving of bus routes in low-income areas.
The project would also include an exten-
sive technical assistance program for the
sector. Seventy three percent of the in-
vestments in Curitiba, Recife and Salvador
would directly benefit people with per
capita incomes below one-third the national
average and sixty seven percent in Porto Alegre.
A similar percentage is expected to apply to
the investments in Belo Horizonte.  The main
risk faced by the project is that local
authorities might fail to take or delay in
taking actions, such as new parking regulations
and modification of bus routes, which are
necessary to complement the construction and
equipment to be financed under the project.
This risk would be brought to acceptable
proportions through the agreements to be
obtained from the authorities concerned that
they would take these actions, and through
the monitoring system to be established.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
---- US$ millions -------
Local   Foreign   Total    %
Land Acquisition                       42.9       0.0      42.9    17
Civil Works                            40.8      22.0      62.8    25
TOPICs                                 12.5       6.7      19.2     8
Bus Terminals                           7.2       3.1      10.3     4
Bus Routes Paving                      20.5      13.7      34.2    14
Traffic Control Equipment               2.3       1.9       4.2     2
Bus Maintenance Facilities
and others                            2.1       1.2       3.3     1
Technical Assistance
and Training                          1.4       2.1       3.5     1
Design and Supervision                 12.3       0.0      12.3     5
Physical Contingencies                 12.6       6.0      18.6     8
Price contingencies                    28.1       9.5      37.6    15
Total Project Cost               182.7      66.2    248.9   100
Financing Plan:
----------------------- US$ million ----------------------
Belo               Porto                    Technical
Horizonte Curitiba Alegre Recife Salvador Assistance Total
Proposed IBRD Loan  15.7        20.8    18.0   15.6    15.6         2.3      88.0
EBTU                 15.8       20.8    18.0   15.6    15.6         1.6      87.4
States and
municipalities    13.5        17.9    15.5   13.3    13.3          -       73.5
45.0      59.5    51.5   44.5    44.5          3.9    248.9
Estimated
Disbursements:
--------------- US$ millions -------------
Bank FY 1979       1980       1981      1982
Annual                    9.5             33.8      36.6        8.0
Cumulative                9.5            43.3       80.0       88.0
Rate of Return:                        The average economic rate of return on the
components evaluated for the sub-projects
in Curitiba, Recife and Salvador, which
account for 92% of total project costs in
those cities, would be 31%. The corres-
ponding percentages for Porto Alegre
would be 83% and 53%. It is expected
that the sub-project in Belo Horizonte
would have a similar rate of return.
Appraisal Report:                      Report No. 1917-BR, dated April 3, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THIE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL FOR AN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I su1.rit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative RepublLc of Brazil for the equivalent of US$88 million to
help finance an urban transport project in the metropolitan areas of Belo
Horizonte, Curitiba, PortLo Alegre, Recife and Salvador. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitLled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR), dated
October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 21,
1977. Country data sheelts are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth
in GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance-of-payments
performance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967 to 1973 and a
process of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence
upon coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the
same time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the
early 1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation of financial
instruments helped to minimize the distortions which often accompany inflation
(although indexing makes it more difficult to reduce the level of inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at 9.5% in
that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-payments
performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The continuation
of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp deterioration
in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to US$4.7 billion.
The elimination of that deficit has been a major objective of economic policy
since that time. To this end the Government fortified simultaneously its
policies of export promotion and of import substitution. As a result of these
policies, the trade gap closed progressively year by year. In 1977 excep-
tionally high coffee prices contributed towards a strong increase of export
revenues and the trade gap was eliminated entirely in that year. It is pro-
jected that the trade gap will remain closed even though coffee prices have
already rolled back significantly from the high levels prevailing in early
1977. This expectation is predicated on a major effort to expand other
exports, particularly of manufactured goods.
1/   This section has been reprinted from the President's Report on the Sixth
Highway Project (P-2233-BR) dated April 11, 1978 and distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 13, 1978.



-2-
5.        Inflation is another problem that has become a focus of attention
in recent years. Sharp rises in the prices of petroleum and other imported
goods in 1974 gave an added impetus to inflationary pressures which were
already building up in the Brazilian economy even prior to the world economic
crisis. Inflation increased in 1974 and continued to accelerate in the
subsequent two years reaching a peak of 46% in 1976. The Government has
employed a wide range of monetary and fiscal instruments to combat inflation.
Interest rate policy has in general been realistic, except in the agricultural
sector where systematic subsidization of interest rates has complicated
monetary management. Particularly significant is the much greater control now
exercised by the Federal Government over the investment programs of public
sector decentralized agencies. There is evidence that these policies are
having effect.  Inflation for 1977 was some 39%, and in the second half of
1977 inflation slowed to a rate of some 30% on an annual basis. If the
Government continues to exercise careful control over monetary and fiscal
policy, further headway against inflation is likely.
6.        Brazil's economic performance since 1974 has been deeply affected
by balance-of-payments constraints. Growth fluctuated sharply from 4.2% in
1975 to 8.7% in 1976 and down again to 6% in 1977 as the Government searched
for an appropriate balance between expansion on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the need to resolve difficulties in the balance of payments and in the
domestic inflationary situation. The Government recognizes the need for con-
tinued moderation in growth during the next two or three years if inflation
is to be kept under control, the balance of payments is to be further improved
and a sound basis for longer term development is to be preserved. It is
projected that growth may average little more than 6% during the remaining
years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication that
Brazil has the potential to sustain higher levels of growth provided (a) that
reasonable expansion of output and trade takes place in the industrial coun-
tries, and (b) that sound economic policies are consistently pursued in Brazil.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
7.        The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture received
explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved over
the past several years (particularly in soya production) justify the priority
given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising the
living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier lands
of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive schemes
have been introduced to encourage exports. However, Brazil's industrial
development strategy now concentrates upon import-substitution programs in
steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and capital goods.
Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of these products by the early
1980s. Beyond that point these same industries may develop a good export
potential.
8.        Public sector investment accounts for more than half of total
fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. It is heavily concentrated in
infrastructure and basic industry. These two areas together account for



-3-
about 70% of total investrment by federal Government agencies and enterprises.
Regional development and social programs absorb most of the remaining 30%.
Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public investment reflected a heavy empha-
sis on road construction and regional development. The Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) added a massive program of import substitution in
basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in the pace of socidal programs.
Since 1977, however, severe restraints have been placed on public investment,
in order to reduce a growing public sector savings gap and the accompanying
balance-of-payments defic:it. The sectors most affected are road and rail
transport, whose ambitious expansion plans have been cut back sharply.
Investments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at a high
level, and in basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and petro-
leum, are being stepped up considerably. The share of regional development
programs in total federal investment has now stabilized at about 7%. The
percentage allocated to social investment is increasing gradually, reflect-
ing continued expansion of public investment in housing, water supply and
sewerage, and other urban development programs.
9.        Despite its impressive growth performance and vast future potential,
Brazil is still a country with extensive poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the country'is poverty problem and accepts responsibility for
its alleviation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that
a high rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it
does not believe that the "trickle down" effects cf rapid growth are enough
and has formulated a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution with
growth." To implement this policy, in addition to pursuing some of the social
programs initiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures
in three broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social
services; and (c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended
to have a favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is
designed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through inter
alia, formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects,
which in some cases include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based
on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous
whole. Therefore, the Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large
portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.
The Bank has made loans for integrated rural development in four of these sub-
regions, and various others are in preparation.
11.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The
Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the
previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given
by the National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which
will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also



- 4 -
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help
housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agri-
culture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer;
and the new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. In November 1974, the
Government revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and the real minimum wage was increased in 1975 and again in 1976.
While in 1977 the Government restricted wage increases as part of a policy
package designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does
not signify any basic change in its longer term goal of improving income
distribution.
12.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion annual average for 1974-76,
it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from official and
private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80. This
projection assumes that it will be possible to sustain and subsequently
improve upon the trade balance achieved in 1977, with export volume rising
at an average rate of 11.5% annually in 1977-80, and import growth held down
to only 2.8% a year in real terms during this period. The outlook for
Brazil's principal export commodities is quite favorable for the next several
years, and it is expected that the good overall export performance projected
here can be achieved, provided that the country continues to follow present
exchange rate policies to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured exports.
On the import side, several major import-substitution programs are already
having a notable impact. The further development of these programs should
enable Brazil to continue to restrain imports without jeopardizing growth.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's estimated public external debt
amounted to about US$16.6 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1977
is estimated at some 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the 1970s and reflects a
higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure.  Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end-1977 is estimated at US$29.5 billion and somewhat over
two-thirds of this debt (some US$20 billion) is in the form of financial
credits. The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1977 was
about 41% compared with an average of 38% during the early 1970s. However,
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977 were about US$7.0 billion,
equivalent to some six months' imports of goods and non-factor services and
sufficient to cover nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign
exchange reserves ensures that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between public and
private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively. Much will



-5-
depend upon the extent to which the Government will extend its guarantee to
loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even assuming that
a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number of cases, it
is projected tentatively that the public debt service ratio will peak in the
late 1970s at shout 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by 1985 is
projected, assuming that Brazil can increase the values of its exports by an
average of 17% per annum and that the average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years. The country's record of
financial and economic mainagement provides grounds for confidence in the main-
tenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. Nevertheless, there can be
no doubt that very careful management of the external accounts will continue
to be necessary.
PARI' II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
14.       By February 28, 1978, the Bank had made 74 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$3,199.4 million, of which 36 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to
an average of US$150 million per year during FY70-75, reaching US$248 million
in FY75, US$202 million in FY76 and US$267 million in FY77. During the first
half of FY78, US$129 million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in
FY76 was due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disburse-
ments are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Since FY75, Ban,k lending to Brazil has amounted to between US$400
and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling US$426.5
million; in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million and in FY77, seven loans
totalling US$425 million. So far in FY78, five loans have been approved:
US$17 million for an integrated rural development project in Ceara,
US$110 million for a sewage collection and treatment project in Greater
Sao Paulo, US$24 million for an integrated rural development project in
Paraiba, US$130 for a power distribution project in the South and Southeast
and US$114 million for a highway maintenance and rehabilitation project in
Parana. Work is relatively advanced on the preparation of an agricultural
extension project; another rural development project in the Northeast;
an aluminum project; and an industrial pollution control project in Sao
Paulo.
16.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$16.6 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present
trends continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt
outstanding would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt
service would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt service would remain at the present level
of 2.8%.



- 6 -
17.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of February 28, 1978, IFC had made commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$332 million, of which US$203 million had been cancelled, repaid
or sold. Of the balance of US$129 million, US$102 million represent loans and
US$27 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments up to February 28, 1978,
is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
18.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective is to help to intensify the
efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that will increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the population,
broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and improve their
living conditions. The proposed urban transport project is addressed to this
objective. It has been designed to benefit public transport users in urban
areas most of whom are below the relative poverty level . It would expand the
range of employment opportunities open to low income segments of the population
by reducing their travel time to work and by providing all-weather access for
public transport in the peripheral areas of the large cities. The recently
approved loans for the nutrition research and development, vocational training,
agricultural research, Lower Sao Francisco polders and Greater Sao Paulo sewage
collection and treatment projects, and for the integrated rural development
projects in the states of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara and Paraiba
were all designed to assist low-income groups. Additional projects to reach
low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation, including a sites and
services project, sewerage and water supply projects in several northeastern
states and a medium-sized cities development project. Additional integrated
rural development projects directed at low-income farmers are also in
preparation.
19.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support insti-
tutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational policies
and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. The institution-
building objective has been important in Bank assistance for vocational
training, and for the transport sector where emphasis has been given to the
rational selection of investments, the strengthening of railway operations,
and the improvement of the railways' financial performance. Loans for
electric power, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and
extension, and urban development also have important institution-building
objectives. The proposed project would strengthen the federal institution
responsible for urban transport in Brazil technically and operationally.
20.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.



-7-
Bank support of fertilizer projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil
is also supporting this objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in
the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facil-
itate the smooth and economical flow of exports.  Support of the s;;eel expan-
sion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets. A similar objective would be achieved through the aluminum project
now being prepared.
21.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions. Since 1976, five co-financing operations totalling US$204 million have
been concluded with private financial institutions and several others are in
preparation.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urbanization
22.       Rapid urban growth has been one of the most striking characteristics
of Brazil's recent evolution. In 1950, cities with more than 20,000 inhabi-
tants accounted for less than 25 percent of the total population; by 1970,
their share of the total had risen to 40 percent. During the sixties, the
rate of growth of the urban population was 5.6% p.a., compared to 2.9% p.a.
for the overall population of the country. The bulk of the increase in the
urban population occured in cities with more than 250,000 inhabitants. At
present, there are nine metropolitan areas with more than one million inhabi-
tants: Belem in the north; Salvador, Recife, and Fortaleza in the northeast;
Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in the southeast; Belo Horizonte in the center-
west; and Curitiba and Porto Alegre in the south.
23.       The population of Brazil is concentrated in the northeast and south-
east regions, and within these areas, mostly along the coastal sections.
Between 1940 and 1970, however, these two regions grew less than the center-
west region which experienced the creation of Brasilia together with the
rapid growth of Belo Horizonte. Nevertheless, this trend only diminished
slightly the preeminence of the southeast over the other regions.



24.       Urban services are inadequate in most Brazilian cities.  The rapid
growth of the urban population has put great pressure on the financial
resources of local institutions at the state and municipal levels and invest-
ment in infrastructure has fallen behind. The situation in southern and
southeastern cities is somewhat better than in the rest of the country
with noticeable exceptions in the peripheral areas of the large metropolis
where most of the recent migrants from rural areas live. The north and north-
eastern parts of Brazil are very poorly served especially in the peripheries
of the large cities and in the small cities. It is not uncommon to find that
more than 40% of the population has inadequate water supply and more than 70%
inadequate sewerage facilities. Many cities are even less well served.
Urban Poverty
25.       In 1976, US$450 (i.e. one third of the per capita national dis-
posable income, adjusted for rural-urban differences) was the estimated income
threshold below which an individual living in an urban area was in relative
poverty. By this criterion in 1970, the latest year for which detailed income
distribution data are available, the proportion of the households in relative
poverty amounted to 55% in Curitiba, 54% in Porto Alegre, 77% in Recife and
69% in Salvador -- more than 3.5 million people altogether in these four
metropolitan regions.  It is clear, therefore, that poverty is widespread in
Brazil, even in apparently prosperous southern cities like Curitiba and Porto
Alegre. Moreover, within that portion of the metropolitan population which
falls below the relative poverty threshold, there are significant numbers in
even more severe conditions of poverty. In Recife, for example, fully 16% of
the households must live as best they can on a per capita income less than one
fifth of the relative poverty level. The corresponding proportion of the
population in Curitiba, Porto Alegre and Salvador falling into this category
are 4%, 5% and 11% respectively. This is a telling indicator of the extent to
which a significant proportion of the urban population in Brazil is afflicted
by poverty. The lowest income groups are particularly prone to conditions of
malnutrition, squalid housing and inadequate urban services.
Urban Policies and Institutions
26.       Formulation of an explicit urban policy and development of federal
institutions to deal with urban problems began with the preparation of the
second National Development Plan (1975-1979) and are still in their early
stages. Current policy places primary emphasis on the problems caused by the
concentration of activities in the Rio de Janeiro/Sao Paulo axis, and by the
disparities in the provision of economic and social infrastructure, both
between and within regions. Detailed urban strategies have been formulated
for Brazil's five macro-regions to consolidate the urban structure of
Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, promote orderly expansion of the metropolitan
areas of the south and center-west, strengthen and diversify the urban
economies of the metropolitan areas of the northeast, and consolidate the
position of cities in the north and new cities in the center-west. At the
same time, the Government intends to promote the growth of medium-sized cities
in all regions to achieve a more balanced urban hierarchy and attract an



- 9 -
increasing share of migratory flows away from the larger metropolitan centers.
As part of this effort, the Government is actively preparing a project in
support of selected medium-sized cities for which it has requested the
assistance of the Bank.
27.       To coutdinate and oversee the development of plans for and the flow
of funds to the urban sector, the Government created in June 1974 the Comisao
Nacional de Regioes Metropolitanas e Politica Urbana (CNPU) -- an intermin-
isterial commission with advisory and prescriptive functions. The main
responsibilities of CNPU are to supervise the urban planning mechanism estab-
lished in the nine metropolitan areas mentioned in para. 22; propose guide-
lines for national urban development policy and formulate a strategy to ensure
its implementation; and propose regulations and operational instruments re-
quired for urban development. Metropolitan regions and cities seeking access
to federal urban development funds are required to submit their proposed in-
vestment plans to CNPU for approval.
28.       In 1975, the Government created the National Urban Development Fund
(FNDU: Fundo Nacional de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Urbano) to finance urban
development projects prepared in accordance with the general policy guidelines
proposed by CNPU and approved by the Government. FNDU is an account that
receives part of the proceeds of the vehicle registration tax and the fuel and
lubricants tax. Total resources allocated by the federal government for urban
development are estimated at US$5 billion equivalent for the period 1976-79,
with about US$1.5 billion to FNDU. The National Housing Bank is responsible
for the administration of most of the balance of those resources. Approximately
75% of FNDU's resources are channeled into a subaccount destined for urban
transport investment -- tbLe Urban Transport Development Fund (FDTU: Fundo de
Desenvolvimento de Transportes Urbanos). FDTU resources are administered by
EBTU (see para. 31) within the policy framework established by CNPU.
Urban Transport Policies aLnd Institutions
29.       The rapid pace of urbanization triggered an even faster growth
of demand (up to 9%) for transport in urban areas. While the bulk of the
traffic (60%) is carried by buses, their share has been falling at the
expense of the private car. Since 1965, the automobile fleet has grown
at an average rate of 11% per annum, twice the rate of growth of the urban
population. The provisiorL of urban transport infrastructure, in particular
construction and paving of roads, has lagged behind the growth of demand.
The gap is most striking on the outer edges of metropolitan regions
where the majority of rural-urban migrants settle. In some metropolitan
regions such as Recife, as many as 30% of the urban dwellers lack adequate
public transportation and walk an average of 5 km to work. In the central
areas of metropolitan regions, an increasing number of vehicles competing
for limited road space has resulted in increased congestion. This is par-
ticularly detrimental to bus operating speeds that frequently are as low as
5-8 kph. Journey times irk most metropolitan areas average around one hour
for the journey to work arLd much longer for the urban poor who mostly
live in the outskirts of the large cities. As a result their range of
employment opportunities is severely restricted. Under the project EBTU



- 10 -
would carry out a study to determine the effects of transport deficiencies
on the low-income population.
30.       Until the mid-1970s, there was no explicit national policy on
urbani transport. The major public investments in public transport in the
early seventies were ambitious and costly underground rail systems in Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. In recent years, a more comprehensive urban trans-
port policy began to evolve, with four main objectives: to make more efficient
use of existing infrastructure and transport systems, especially bus systems;
to slow down gasoline consumption and reduce the use of automobiles; to
promote actively the use of public transport, through measures and investments
to improve its quality; and to plan and coordinate urban transport investments
with other urban planning activities.
31.       In 1976 the federal government established the Empresa Brasileira
dos Transportes Urbanos - EBTU (Brazilian Urban Transport Company) to develop
and promote a national urban transport policy and control federal investment
in urban transport. EBTU is a government-owned corporation within the overall
responsibility of the Ministry of Transport with administrative and financial
autonomy and juridical personality. Its principal operation is the allocation
of funds from the FDTU in accordance with general policy guidelines elaborated
by CNPU. To channel FDTU funds, EBTU enters into a special agreement with the
state and municipality concerned, as applicable. CNPU is also a party to that
agreement to ensure the consistency of EBTU's programs with the general
policies of the Government for the urban sector. Over the 1977-1980 period
EBTU expects to participate in the financing of projects in the urban transport
sector with a total cost of about US$4 billion equivalent. FDTU revenues over
the same period are expected to reach US$1 billion equivalent.
32.       Since its creation, EBTU has promoted and financed a wide range of
activities, including long-term urban transport plans and medium-term public
transport improvement programs; immediate action traffic and transportation
programs, emphasizing optimal use of existing infrastructure through traffic
engineering; improvements in the urban road system and equipment; equity
participation in public bus and metro companies; lines of credit for fleet
renewal; graduate training and research programs in urban transport in leading
Brazilian universities; research and development for new vehicle fuel such
as alcohol and for electrically propelled vehicles; and standardization of
bus equipment.
33.       EBTU is a young institution and its staff and operations reflect
the learning process that it is going through. Because of the early need
to establish its presence, EBTU committed FDTU funds to projects with less
technical background, economic preparation, and attention to complementary
policies and measures than would have been desirable. These problems are
being overcome. The quality of technical and economic evaluation work has
improved markedly. Standards and procedures have been developed and utilized
for project supervision. Guidelines for project evaluation have been
developed and are being tested. Internally, there is evidence of increasing
cohesion and coordination among the various directorates of the institution.
By end 1977, EBTU's professional staff numbered 72. Despite the considerable
progress already made, EBTU still needs to articulate an overall investment



- 1 1 -
allocation strategy, define its functional and geographical priorities, and
establish explicit criteria for accepting projects. Under the project, EBTU
would engage consultancy services to strengthen its project evaluation and
supervision capabilities. It would also carry out a study to evaluate the
concept and development of urban transport companies to plan and coordinate
urban transport in each metropolitan region. Also, EBTU would rexiew its
guidelines for the preparation and evaluation of urban transport projects, in
consultation with the Bank and with the assistance of consultants (Section
3.03 of draft EBTU Project Agreement).
34.       An important complementary institution is the Empresa Brasileira
do Planejamento de Transportes (GEIPOT) which is a consulting agency carrying
out studies of general transport problems, including urban transport problems,
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport. GEIPOT provides tech-
nical support to EBTU, metropolitan regions, and cities in carrying out
studies and formulating plans for urban transport. The close institutional
relationship between GEIPOT and EBTU, both under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Transport, means that government policies on urban transport
become quickly integrated into studies and plans at the local level.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of an Urban Transport
Project" (No. 1917-BR, dated April 3, 1978) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. The project was prepared by EBTU and various
local entities in the five project cities with the assistance of GEIPOT and
consultants. The project was identified in January 1977 by the Bank urban
sector mission. It was appraised by a mission which visited Brazil in October
1977. Negotiations with the Government, EBTU and the cities were held in
Washington from March 21 to April 5, 1978. EBTU was represented by a team
headed by Mr. Gil Cesar Moreira de Abreu.
36.       Stress is placed on developing as rapidly as possible the capability
of EBTU to appraise projects. Consistent with this emphasis on institution
building, Bank staff have fully appraised, with the active participation of
EBTU, the sub-projects in Curitiba, Recife and Salvador. EBTU has appraised
the sub-project in Porto ALlegre and would appraise the sub-project in Belo
Horizonte in accordance wiith an established set of guidelines (Sections
2.01(b), 2.02(a) and Schedule 3 of the draft EBTU Project Agreement). EBTU's
draft appraisal report for the sub-project in Porto Alegre has been reviewed
by Bank staff and found satisfactory. The sub-project is well designed and
justified. Disbursements for this sub-project would be conditional upon EBTU
submitting to the Bank a 1-inal version of its appraisal report satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements
for the sub-project in Be:Lo Horizonte would be conditional upon the completion
by EBTU of an appraisal report satisfactory to the Bank and the signing by the
State of Minas Gerais, PLAMBEL, the Municipality of Belo Horizonte and EBTU of
a supplementary letter specifying the details of the project components, their
costs, an implementation schedule, and a statement of and timetable for the
introduction of complemenitary policies (para. 4(b) of Schedule I to the draft
Loan Agreement). The draft Belo Horizonte Project Agreement provides the general
legal framework for the execution of the sub-project in that metropolitan region.



- 12 -
The Project Cities
37.       The proposed project would have components to improve urban trans-
port services in five metropolitan regions--Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto
Alegre, Recife, and Salvador. These cities were chosen because they experience
the whole range of urban transport problems in Brazil, covering the extreme
poverty of Salvador and Recife, the explosive growth of Belo Horizonte and the
growing regional industrial bases of Porto Alegre and Curitiba.
38.       The three cities whose projects have been appraised by Bank staff, have
experienced very rapid population growth in the last two decades and employment
creation in the formal sector has lagged behind population growth. In Salvador
and Recife, investment incentives for industries to locate in the Northeast have
attracted capital-intensive industries which have provided limited direct employ-
ment. By contrast, Curitiba has suceeded in attracting to its new industrial city
light and medium-scale industries with capacity to absorb manpower. Basic data on
population, employment, urban poverty, and access to basic services are presented
in the following table:
Porto
Belo Horizonte   Curitiba    Alegre         Recife      Salvador
Population
- 1970 Census                 1,600,000       821,000   1,531,000   1,791,000   1,148,000
- 1975 Estimate               2,157,000    1,013,000   1,836,000   2,150,000   1,400,000
- Growth 1960-70 (% p.a.)         6.2           4.6          4.2          3.7          4.5
Labor Force (1970)
- Size                            n.a.        278,800      529,900      491,700      355,100
- Unemployment                    n.a.          1.8%         5.7%         6.4%         3.7%
Poverty (1970)
- Families below relative
poverty level /1             n.a.            55%        54%          77%          69%
- Families with per capita
income below one fifth
of relative poverty
level                        n.a.          4%           5%          16%          11%
Access to Services (%)
- housing /2                      91             92          90           72          76
- water supply                    58             61          73           46          54
- sewerage                        45             51          55           31          30
- electricity                     82             77          88           78          89
/1   Defined as families with per capita income below one third of the national
per capita disposable income, adjusted for rural-urban differences.
/2   Excludes improvised shelter.



- 13 -
Transport Characteristics of the Project Cities
39.       The project cities share many transport characteristics.  Up to 60%
of all trips have destinations in central areas where growing traffic volumes
have resulted in increasing congestion. In general, cars, buses, trucks and
pedestrians ali use the same road space which cause delays, accidents, and
pollution. Outside the central area, each city has critical bottlenecks that
hold up traffic. Major problems lie in the peripheral areas where most of
the poor live. In these areas, most roads are unpaved, which creates very
difficult and slow operating conditions for buses. In some areas, these roads
are subject to flooding, resulting in prolonged interruptions in bus services.
40.       The characteristics of the urban transport system in Curitiba
deserves special mention since it is regarded as a model for other
Brazilian cities. Curitiba has carried out a well-defined policy in favor of
the development of an efficient public transport system. The salient feature
of this policy is the development of structural axes establishing a relation-
ship between land use and transport. The basic element of a structural axis
is a trinary road system constituted by three parallel roads located one block
apart. The land fronting onto the central road is zoned for high-density
commercial and residential development. The central two lanes of the central
road form an exclusive busway, designed for a high-capacity bus mass transport
system. On each side of the busway there are service lanes for local traffic.
The central lanes could be used for a more sophisticated mass transport system
should future demand require it. The land fronting the lateral roads is zoned
for medium-density residential and commercial development on the inner side of
the road and for low-density residential development on the outer side. Thus,
the pattern of urban development is oriented towards a system of high density
corridors which are a prerequisite of a good mass transport system. Since
1974, three structural axes have been brought into operation in Curitiba.
The system has facilitated the provision of adequate transport services at
reasonable cost and substantially diminished congestion in the central area.
At the same time the high level of accessibility provided by the transport
system has induced development to concentrate along the corridors.
41.       The regulation of bus operations in urban areas is the constitutional
prerogative of the municipalities. As a result, the number of bus companies
in each city, the specific form of regulation, and conditions of entry vary
widely from city to city. Although Salvador and Recife each have a municipal
bus company, the majority of the passenger traffic is carried by private
companies. In each of the five cities there is some degree of competition
and a generally satisfactory profit picture, as indicated by the backlog of
franchise requests in all of the cities. Bus fares are controlled at the
federal level by the Interministerial Price Council (CIP). CIP has defined
formulae for fare computaLtion (with different coefficients for each metropol-
itan area and vehicle category) which take into account operating and adminis-
trative costs, depreciation, load factor, and allows for a reasonable rate of
return (12%) on companies' investment. Fares are recomputed twice a year.
There are no operating subsidies for any bus company, public or private, in
the metropolitan regions.



- 14 -
Project Concept
42.       The proposed project would improve urban transport services in the
five project cities giving emphasis to the provision of public transport,
especlally to the poor; promote and support the development and execution
of appropriate urban transport policies; and strengthen municipal, state, and
federal capacity to prepare, appraise, and execute urban transport projects.
In each city, the project components have been designed in accordance with
regional and urban development strategies. Each sub-project gives priority to
traffic management and traffic engineering measures designed to increase the
effective capacity and performance of the existing road network, together with
organization measures to improve the efficiency of bus fleet operations. Only
in cases when sufficient capacity cannot be created by such measures have the
construction of urban roads been considered for inclusion under the project.
All sub-projects would improve public transport services, especially those in,
or used by people from, low-income areas. In many cases, project components
that give priority to public transport or other high-occupancy vehicles would
also tend to discourage car use. Complementary parking policies would reinforce
this tendency by reducing the number of spaces available in central areas and
penalizing long-term parking. Together with measures already taken to in-
crease the price of gasoline (the current gasoline price is US$1.77 equivalent
per gallon) these actions are expected to have a significant effect on car use.
43.       Although details of sub-projects differ among cities, the following
components reflect the overall approach of the project: traffic engineering
measures to improve circulation in central areas; introduction of exclusive
bus lanes; TOPICS I/ programs to alleviate critical congestion points;
widening or construction of missing road links in the network; reorganization
or construction of bus terminals; and paving of bus routes in low-income
areas. As car ownership grows, the effectiveness of this type of measure
will be gradually eroded and in the long term it will be necessary to directly
reduce the demand for car use in congested areas. To ensure that such measures
are ready when the time comes, EBTU would carry out a study on the potential
for applying economic disincentives for the use of private cars in Brazilian
cities as done in Singapore (Schedule I to the draft EBTU Project Agreement).
Project Description
44.       In Curitiba, where the salient feature of the transport situation
is the development of structural axes (see para. 40), the project would
consist of the construction of a fourth structural axis and eight passenger
interchange terminals along the existing and proposed structural axes; and of
the improvement of 80 km of roads to be used by feeder buses to connect low-
income residential areas to the structural axes. The Municipality of Curitiba
would build additional service lanes along the fourth structural axis only
after providing economic justification satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 2.01(b) of the draft Curitiba Project Agreement).
1/ Traffic Operations Programs to Increase Capacity and Safety.



- 15 -
45.       In Salvador the project would include the execution of exclusive
bus facilities in six corridors; modifications to three major bus terminals;
TOPICS improvements in the central area and at other critical points; paving
and resurfacing of 42.9 km and construction of 84 neighborhood bus terminals
in low income areas; equipment for traffic engineering and control; a bus
penetration road in a low-income district; an integrated basic traasport infra-
structure program in Nordeste de Amaralina including a bus penetration road;
and the reconstruction of a 2.5 km critical road link. To complement these
works the Municipality of Salvador would implement changes in bus lines,
routes, and frequencies; and undertake a program for removing long-term
parking from the center and enforcing parking regulations (Schedule 1 to
the draft Salvador Project Agreement).
46.       The comprehensive basic transport infrastructure program in the
low-income neighborhood of Nordeste de Amaralina is of special interest.
A 2.85 km bus penetration road would be built and over 4 km of existing
dirt roads would be paved as access roads for service vehicles. To improve
pedestrian access to public transport, 18 km of other tracks would be
provided with paving and drainage and a series of stairs would be built.
The introduction of transport infrastructure would be coordinated with a
municipal program to provide water and sewerage, schools, a market, and a
recreation ground. The municipality has set aside land for families that
would have to be relocated and would provide assistance to help them move.
The standards of the facilities have been designed so that they constitute a
significant improvement for the current poor residents, while remaining un-
attractive to people with 'higher incomes. As an additional measure to
ensure that the benefits of the project go to the current residents, the
Municipality of Salvador would pass a new zoning law establishing maximum lot
sizes and densities for the area. It would also take the measures necessary
to coordinate the execution of water supply and sewerage works in the area
with the transport infrastructure program (Section 4.02 of the draft Salvador
Project Agreement).
47.       The sub-project in Recife aims at improving the operation of the
bus system so that it may be able to meet the transport needs of the city's
large low-income population (see para. 38). A second perimetrical road
included in the sub-project would facilitate the access to fast-growing-
peripheral areas that have been receiving a high proportion of recent migrants
from rural areas in the northeast. The sub-project would include improvements
in the central area, comprising exclusive bus facilities, reorganization and
reconstruction of bus terminals, and traffic engineering measures; improve-
ments in radial bus corridors consisting of traffic engineering measures and
physical works at critical bottlenecks; paving of 43 km of feeder roads used
by buses in low-income areas; rehabilitation, widening, and construction of a
second perimetrical road; a program of TOPICS improvements on secondary roads
serving peripheral municipalities; and new maintenance facilities and equip-
ment for the 433 bus fleet of the municipal bus company. The Municipality of
Recife would construct and operate five fringe car parking areas; undertake a
program for the removal of long-term parking spaces from the central area;
expand the system of high-turn-over parking to discourage long-term parking



- 16 -
in the center; provide for adequate measures to enforce parking regulations;
and carry out the works required to operate cross-town bus lines prior to the
introduction of exclusive bus facilities. The Municipality would also introduce
changes in bus lines, routes and frequencies (Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the
draft Recife Project Agreement). The metropolitan development agency (FIDEM),
with the participation of the municipality, would conduct a study of the
operation and regulation of bus services (Schedule 1 to the draft Recife
Project Agreement). The results of this study should provide EBTU with a
sound basis to define policies to support the improvement of bus services in
other urban areas of the country.
48.       The sub-project in Porto Alegre would assist public transport
operations by the introduction of bus priority schemes; fill in some gaps in
the road network; and improve bus access to low-income areas in the out-
skirts of the city. The sub-project would include the construction of 26.4
km of express bus lanes in five main transport corridors; 5 main bus terminals
and feeder bus terminals on those corridors; an overpass which would constitute
the final link of an existing perimetrical road; improvement of 5.6 km of an
important road; and the paving of about 58 km of feeder roads in low-income
peripheral districts. Complementary to the project the Municipality of
Porto Alegre would develop and introduce a system to discourage long-term
parking in the center of the city, and adopt measures to reduce illegal
parking and keep the exclusive bus lanes free of both moving and parked cars.
It would also carry out various institutional reforms, including changes in
bus lines, routes and frequencies required to complement the introduction of
the public transport corridors and of the feeder and transversal bus lines
(Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the draft Porto Alegre Project Agreement).
49.       The sub-project in Belo Horizonte would include TOPICS improvements
in two major transport corridors; an area traffic control system for the
central business district; paving of about 280 km of bus feeder roads in low
income areas; and improvements in a key urban road. The area traffic control
system would give priority to buses and thus facilitate their circulation
through the central district. The feeder roads would provide all-weather
access to buses in low-income areas as well as fulfill the function of
neighborhood arterials. EBTU would appraise these components and analyze
with local authorities the measures that would be necessary to complement the
installation of the traffic control equipment and construction of civil works.
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
50.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$248.9 million with an
estimated foreign exchange component of US$66.2 million equivalent. The cost
estimates for the five sub-projects include physical contingencies of 10% and
15% for those components for which final designs and preliminary designs have
been completed respectively. Price contingencies, for 1978 and 1979 in dollar
terms amount to 9% and 7.5% p.a. for civil works and equipment, respectively.
For 1980 and 1981 the rates are 8% and 7% p.a. for the respective categories.
For technical assistance, price contingencies total 10%.



- 17 -
51.       The proposed USDi88 million Bank loan would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project (US$66.2 million) as well as US$21.8 million of
its local costs. The proposed Bank contribution would represent 35% of the
total cost of the project.. In a country like Brazil, which is making a
vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources, it is appropriate for the
Bank to give sc- assistance in the financing of local currency expenditures
for projects which, like t:he present one, have very high priority, are
oriented to satisfy the needs of low-income groups but do not have a high
foreign exchange content. If the Bank is to be effective in supporting
projects of this kind, it seems reasonable for it to contribute at least 35%
of the costs even though this entails financing some local currency expen-
ditures. EBTU would match the Bank contribution using resources from the
FDTU. The balance would be provided by the states and municipalites.
Belo               Porto                    Technical
Horizonte Curitiba Alegre Recife Salvador Assistance Total
----------------------- US$ Millions ------------------------
IBRD               15.7       20.8    18.0    15.6       15.6       2.3      88.0
EBTU               15.8       20.8    18.0    15.6       15.6       1.6      87.4
States and
municipalities  13.5        17.9    15.5    13.3       13.3        -       73.5
45.0       59.5    51.5    44.5       44.5       3.9     248.9
52.       The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and make the
proceeds available to EBTIJ who will act as its agent. Proceeds from the Bank
loan would be passed by EB3TU to the project cities as grants. The municipality
in Porto Alegre, the municipal secretariat of finance in Curitiba, and the
metropolitan development agencies in Belo Horizonte, Recife, and Salvador
would be responsible for channeling funds in their respective cities. The
Federal Government would lbe responsible for loan repayments using funds from
either FDTU or general revenues.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       The civil works and equipment for the project, with an estimated
total cost of US$130 million and US$6 million equivalent, respectively (ex-
cluding contingencies), would be procured under international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Where possible, contracts
would be packaged so as to make bidding attractive to both large and small
contractors. EBTU would issue twice yearly international notification of
forthcoming contracts. Manufacturers whose bids contained components manu-
factured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid would be
given a margin of preference equal to 15% or the applicable import duty,
whichever is less. Brazilian suppliers of the items included in the project
are competitive and are expected to win most of the goods procured through
international competitive bidding. The municipality of Curitiba would use
force account to execute minor paving jobs. It is not expected that foreign
contractors would bid for civil works. The project would include a total of
434 man-months of consultancy services with a unit cost of US$7,000 equivalent.



- 18 -
54.       Retroactive financing of up to US$1.7 million would be allowed to
cover expenditures incurred after January 1, 1978 to permit the completion
of the preliminary designs and implementation programs for Salvador and
Recife, and of the construction of one bus terminal in Curitiba in accordance
with a satisfactory schedule and of the drainge works in Salvador before the
next rainy season.
55.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against appropriate
documentation for 100% of foreign expenditures on imported goods or 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods; for 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of the technical assistance and training programs; and for
30% of the cost of civil works in Belo Horizonte; 59% in Curitiba; 56% in
Porto Alegre; 39% in Recife; and 37% in Salvador. The Bank loan would not be
disbursed against land acquisition costs.
Project Execution and Monitoring
56.       Implementation arrangements for the project would be similar to
those that EBTU has used in other projects. EBTU would maintain a qualified
and experienced project coordinator to supervise the execution of the project.
Actual project execution would be the responsibility of state, metropolitan
and municipal entities. To handle the increased administrative work load,
EBTU would create a unit to handle procurement matters under the project.
In each project city, a local coordinator has been designated to monitor
the progress of project execution and facilitate the communication between
different agencies at the local level and EBTU. Arrangements for project
execution at the local level are satisfactory.
57.       EBTU would design and carry out a program satisfactory to the Bank
to monitor urban transport conditions in the project cities during the
execution of the project. This program would provide a basis for making
adjustments to the works financed under the project; improve local under-
standing of the programs; provide a basis for designing follow-up programs;
and evaluate the operational performance of the programs (Section 3.06 of
draft EBTU Project Agreement).
Project Benefits
58.       The average economic rate of return on the components evaluated by
Bank staff for sub-projects in Curitiba, Recife and Salvador, which account
for 92% of total project cost in those cities, would be 31% (13% if only
vehicle operating cost savings are taken into account). The economic rate
of return on the components evaluated by EBTU for the sub-project in Porto
Alegre, which account for 83% of total project cost in that city would be 53%.
The project would bring major benefits to the urban poor. Seventy three
percent of investments included in the sub-projects evaluated by Bank staff
would generate benefits directly to people with per capita incomes below
the relative poverty level (87% in Salvador, 69% in Curitiba and 64% in
Recife). The corresponding percentage for the sub-project in Porto Alegre
would be 67%. Similar percentages are expected to apply to the sub-project
in Belo Horizonte.



- 19 -
59.       The evaluation approach adopted reflects the two key objectives of
the project: (i) to bring about urban transport improvements as economically
as possible, and (ii) to channel as many of the benefits as possible to public
transport users, especially those falling into the category of the urban poor.
The first objective resuited in alternatives being scrutinized to ensure
that the benefits could not have been obtained at a lower cost. Tne second
led to the evaluation effort being concentrated on identifying benefits to
public transport users. In general, estimation methods or models have been
limited to an examination of public transport networks. However, benefits (or
disbenefits) to car users have been introduced where appropriate even though
at a more aggregate level. The economic evaluation is based on quantified
savings in vehicle operating costs, maintenance costs, and travel times.
Given the objective of creating benefits for public transport users, savings
in travel times, have been measured and quantified and the results incorporated
in the economic analysis. These savings constitute an important indicator of
the extent to which benefits are actually realized by bus riders. Other
elements, such as the contribution the project would make to a selected urban
development strategy or to reductions in accidents, have been taken into
account in the broader project justification.
60.       To recover through taxation the increase in value that urban
properties would derive from improved transport services the municipalitaties
would take appropriate steps to revise the valuation for tax purposes of those
properties whose value shall have been affected by the project (Sections 5.01,
2.02, 4.04, 5.03, and 4.04 of the draft Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre,
Recife and Salvador Project Agreements, respectively). The regular bus fare
adjustments made by the Interministerial Price Council would ensure that the
reductions in bus operating costs that would result from the project would be
passed on to bus riders (see para. 41).
Project Risks
61.       Two main risks exist that might reduce the project's effectiveness in
meeting its objectives: the risk associated with the preparation and appraisal
of the sub-project in Belo Horizonte and the risk associated with the exe-
cution and operation of project components. Given the basic technical
competence of EBTU and the sequential appraisal program, the probability that
EBTU would not be able to appraise the project in Belo Horizonte is small.
The project elements proposed for Belo Horizonte were screened by the
appraisal mission, which concluded that, in general terms, they were likely to
meet Bank criteria on economic and technical justification. The second risk
is that local authorities might fail to undertake actions which are necessary
to complement the physical measures.  These actions include new parking
regulations and modification of bus routes. To reduce this risk, the state
and local authorities would agree to take the complementary actions required
for the success of the project. In addition, the monitoring program mention
in paragraph 57 would provide early warning of problems and enable EBTU to
take corrective action promptly.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Projects Agreements between the Bank and EBTU; the
Bank and the State of Minas Gerais, PLAMBEL, the Municipality of Belo Horizonte
and EBTU; the Bank and the Municipality of Curitiba and EBTU; the Bank and the
State of Rio Grande do Sul, METROPLAN, the Municipality of Porto Alegre and
EBTU; the Bank and the State of Pernambuco, FIDEM, the Municipality of Recife
and EBTU and the Bank and the State of Bahia, CONDER, the Municipality of
Salvador and EBTU; and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 24, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                               Page 1
EIRAZIL              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   ------------------------------------
BRAZIL                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL      8512.0                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.   2029.6                          1960       1970   ESTIMATE            MEXICO          URUGUAY         JAPAt*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                      300.0*    550.0*   1140.0*/a               690.0*      940.0*    2630.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (hID-YR  "ILLION)             69.8       92.8      110.0/a               5u.4         2.7        104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          8.0       11.0       13.0/a              26.0         15.0       280.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          44.0       49.0       54.0/a              52.0         18.0      1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)           40.8       38.4       37.1                 43.8        22.1         17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            11.7        9.9        8.8                 10.2         9.2          7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         180.0      110.0         ..                68.5           ,,        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BSITH (YRS)         56.0       59.4       61.4                62.4         69.3        71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.6        2.6        2.5                  3.1         1.4          1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                   3.0        2.9        2.9                  3.4         0.7          1.0
URBAN                                   5.5        5.0        4.0                  4.8         1.2          4.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            46.0       58.0        59.1                58.7        78.1         84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         43.0       42.0       41.7                46.2         28.3        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                         54.0       55.0       55.1                50.1         63.5        58.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                       3.0        3.0        3.2                  3.7         8.2          7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.9        0.8         0.8                 1.0         0.6          0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6        1.5        1.4/b                2.0         1.0          0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)             ..      250.0          .5. 55.5                        .
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..        1.6          ..                  ..
EMPLOYNTENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          22700.0   29400.0   34100.0               13000.0       1020.0    53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)           52.0       40.4       37.8                 45.0        17.0        19.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)               ..       7.5        5.0                   ..         8.0/a        1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
' OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D 8Y-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              39,9 /a   35.0 /a                          37.8        ig.o/b      14.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              62.1 7a   62.0 7a        ..                63.2        47.57F      37.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               3.5 7a    3.0 7        *-                  4.2         4.47F       8.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              10.3 T     10.0 7       *-                 10.2        14.27       22.3
DISTRIBUTION CF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OhNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                ..      45.0          ..                37.1
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS              ..       1.5          .0. .3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               2170.0    1910.0    1650.0/C              1480.0        880.0       880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..    3220.0/b  2920.07Z              1620.0/a   3340.0         240 I
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             275.0      260.0      260.0                960.0      170.0         80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          102.0      109.0      115.0               110.0        107.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                61.0       64.0       67.0                65.0         96.0        76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           38.0       39.0         ..                28.0/b       64.0        45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..         ..          ..                 9.8         1.3          1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         95.0       87.0       86.0               104.0        106.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       11.0         ..       26.0                22.0         57.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               11.0       11.0       11.0                12.0         12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                       19.0       17.0       i8.0/d              24.0         21.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  61.0       64.0          ..                76.0        91.0        99.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    ..       1.0         1.1/c               2.2           ..         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                   73.0/C    66.2 /e              61,_/_C        ,          5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..       48.0       55.6                59.0           .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                       ..        8.0       12.5                 28.0                 .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           66.0       60.0        62.0               276.0       346.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THCU POP)             7.0       25.0       35.0                 24.0        45.0        84.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            328.0      491.0      684.0                567.0       762.0      3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 3.3        2.7         2.5                 3.2         7.0         18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSIE



- 22 -
ANDEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Racent Estimate between
193 and 1975.
*   CX? per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
a*  Japan has been selected as an objective country since the Brazilian Government has shown particular interest in Japan's development experience,
ales the two governments have conducted joint studies to identify possible future econonic problems of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japanp
BRAZIL      1960    /a  Economically active population.
1970    /a  Economically active population;           /b  Hospital personnel:    Ic  Inside only.
MOST RECENT ESTATE              ' 1976;     /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                /c  1972;    /d  1971;
ea Inside only.
MEXICO       1970     /a  Including assistant nurses;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Inside only.
RiUG,Ai    1970    /a  Montevideo only;    /b  1967.
R13, August 2, 1977
DFFINITIONS OF SOCIAL 2NDICATOBS
Land Area (thou km2)                                                                           P.pul.tion per nnrsing p.rson - Population dioided by nunber of practicing
Total - Total surface ares comprising land area and inland waters                                male and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agric  - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or permo-                    auxiliary personnel with training or eoperiece.
ne-tly for crops, pastures, market & kitoben gardens or to lie fallow.                       Population per hospital bed - Pnpuiation divided by swbser of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specialised hospital and
GNP per capita (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current narket prices,                        rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and establiahmento  for
calculated by same conversior method as World Bank 4tlaa (1973-75 basis);                      cu todial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                    Per capit. aupply of calories  (f of re.qir-mta     ) - Computed frca  energy
equivalent of net toad supplies available in country per capita per dsy;
P    lion  nd  ital statistic                                                                    available supplies coprie domestic production, imports less exports, and
Population (oid-year million)   As of July first:  if not available, average                     changes  in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two  nd-year estimates; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                           in food procea.sing and losses in distribution; requirements were estima ted
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Populotion density   per Square ks - Mid-year population per square kilometer                    ering enviroaenstal temperature, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 hen tares) of total  rea.                                                                 population, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
.pclation density - per Square ko of agric. land - Computed as above for                       Per capita supply of proteis igrama per day) - Protein content of per capita
apnicolt,iral land only.                                                                       net aupply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
mennt for all countries established by LSDA Economic Research Services
vital uratintics                                                                                  providn for a  inimiuo allowance of 60 gras of total protein per day, and
-rude hirth rate par thousand, average - Annual live births per thousand of                       20 gra-s  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
old-neon population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grasa of total protein
and five-yvnr average ending in 1975 for most recent eatioate.                                 and 23 grams of animal protein *s an overage for the world, proposed by FAO
_ude death rate per thousand, avarass-sAnnu-l deaths per thousand of mid-year                     in the Third World Food Suvey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                   Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
ycar average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                                          derived from animeala and pulses in grams per day.
Infant nortalitv rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                 Death rate (/thou) aRes 1-4 - Annusl deaths per thout-nd in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                      years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indisctor of
Life expectancy at birth (yre) - Average nssber of years of life remaining at                    malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                               Eduation
Gross r-production rate - Average number of live daughters a women will bear                    Ad1usted enrollment ratio - prisary school - Enrollment ci .11 ages as per-
is her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                      centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
fur developing countries,                                                                      universal education, enrollment may emceed 1007, since some pupils are below
Population growth rote (%) - total - Composed annual growth rates of mid-year                     or above the official school age.
vopalation for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                 Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; seondary
opulcior growth rate (7,) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                         education requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
-=latiot< different definitions of orban areas may affect .omparability of                   provides general, vocational or teacher training i-stractltna for pupils
data among countries,                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence co-rses are generally excluded.
nrb.un population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may effect comparability of data ammng countries.                     choeling; at secondary level, vocational instruction  msy be partially or
completely secluded.
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                    V.ctiamal enrsll.ent (=   % of secpndary) - Vo-ational ijotitutions  in-Iude
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                          technical, industrial or other programs which operate independently  r
A.o  dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                     departmenna of senondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                        Adult literacy rate  (%) - Literate adulcs (able to read and write) as pe-
Econonic depeodency ratio- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                        centage of total adult population aged 15 vears and over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Fnmilo planning  - acceptors (cumulative  thou)  - Cumulative nunber of acceptors               Housing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national family planning program                   Persona per room (urban) - Average comber of persons per roum in occupied
since inception                                                                                 conventional dwellings in urban areas; drllings exclude non-permanent
faily planning - cotta (7. cf married women) - Percentages of married women of                    structures and unocnupied parts
c-ild-voaring age (15-44 years) who use birth-control deoices to all narried                  Occupied dwellings without piped wa.nt (.   ) - Occupied convectional dwellings
women :r' sane age group.                                                                       in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as :percentge ualocpidwellings.
mpl;oyment                                                                                      Access to electriclty (% of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
otat labor force (thousand) - Economically active persona, including armed                        electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in uban ad
fo-s and unemployed but eocluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                       rural areas.
sn various countries are not comparable.                                                     Rfal dwellings connected to electricity (/.  - Computed as aboue for rural
abor force in agriculture (f,) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                 dwellings only.
huotiog and fishing) as percentage of total Iabor force.
I'n-vployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons who                  Consumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, remained out                 Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of recei-ers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified  nismim period not exceeding one                     to general public per thousand of population; escIudes unlicensed  eneti-
neek; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                      in  ountcries and in yours when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unmployed and spurct of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                     data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment inutrance.                                                     licensing.
n                                                                 t%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pssne   ars font~2 thou pop) - P.asenger cars comprise motor cars seating
ncome distributio    - Percencage of private iscome (both in cash and kind)                       less then eight persons; excl des amb,lae   hs he          amotord ilitary
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 207, and poorest 40% of house-                     vehicles.
holds.                                                                                        Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, c-omercial
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Diutribstion of land ownsetship -  Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 10%                    based on production data,  ithout aliloane for loses in gdid  hot n allo-
and poorest 102 of land owners.                                                                Lig for imports and exports of electricity.
N-psrint (hg/yr per cap) - Pet capita annual --ncaprion in kilagree
(talth and Natrition                                                                              estimated frm  domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by nusber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMEIT DATA SREETT
Prelimiry
Acr-a                                          ta-inst     Ptrojeted        Ps-jected          Ca-,a-e  Averase Growth Rate
1973            1974              1975            1976                 7t977            1980            1985          1974-76    197_789    1981-85          1973         1976           1980           1985
A.      NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                Million.  US$ at 1973 Pricea aed ENnha-e Rate                                                                                                                         As Perent af GDY
1.  GUP (Market Priest)                               77,891          85,361            88,934          96,693            102,495          124,172          188,849         705           6.5          8.7         100.0        101.7          102.3          102.2
2.  GatDS frLN SrrN  of Trade-                                           -791           -1,794          -1,409               -777           -2,746           -4,056           -             -           -             -          -1.5           -2.3           -2.4
3.  Greos Doe*etit Inteme                             77,891          84,570            87,140          95,103            181.719         121,426           184,793          7.0          6.3          8.8         100.0        18.U0          100.0          188.0
4   InpI rt-                                           7,577            9,757            8,706            8,239             8,097            0,205           14,184          2.8           2.6         0.0           9.7           8.7           7.6             7.7
S.  Enperte - ODloot                                   6,596           6.306             7,305            7,313             7,953           11,286           18,515          3.5         11.D         18.6           8.5           7.7           9 3           10.0
6.  Exporte - TT AdjasRed                              6,596           5,515             5,511            5,904             7,187            8,557           14,459         -0.5           9.9        11.0           8.5           6.2           7.8             7 8
7.  teseooce Gap (4-6)                                   981           4,242             3,196           2,335                910              648              -275          -            -            -            1.2           2.5           0.5           -0.2
8.  Cosoeptlen                                        61,529          66,866            69 835           76,196            79.518           93,690          139,407          7.4           5.3         8.3          79 0         80.1           77.2            75.4
9.  Ioeest%eeo                                        17,343          21,946            20,501          21,423             23,010           28,385           45,111          7.3          5.8          9.7          22.3         22.5           23.4           24.4
10.  NatIonal OavltNs                                  15.655          16,953            16,042           17,458            20,366           25,718           43,213          3.7         10.2         10.9          20.1         18.4           21.2            23.4
11.  DoNectic Sa-iegs                                  16,362          17,704            17,310           19,087            22,100           27,736           45,386          5.3           9.8        10.3          21.0          20.1          22.8            24.6
I,     MRRRKINDRSE '1%AD5                                Millions US at current Pricts                                                                                                                                         A. Perre-t of Totel e rt
1.  Imparts
censomar GReds                                  1,125            1,620             1,358           1,510              1,385           2,036             4,228        10.3           7.7        15.8          18.2          12.3          11.2            11.1
Parreleon and Seriestr-es                         711            2,840            2,873            3,585              3,853           5,230             8,254         71.4         10.0         9.5          11.5          29.2          28.9            21.6
Ittermedite Goods                              2,214            5,073            4,006            3,664              3,855           5,024            11,029        18.3           8,2        17.0          35.8          29.8          27.7            28.8
Capital Goeds                                   2,143            3,108             3,932           3,517              3,096           3,840            14,733         18.0         13.5        20.3          34.6          28.6          32.2            38.5
Total (FOB)                              6,192           12,641            12,169          12,277             12,690           18,151           38,242         18.7         10.3         16.0         188.0        180.0          IG0.0          188.0
2.  Eparta                                                                                                                                                                                                                  As Percent of Tetmi Errta
Coffee                                          1,344              980               934           2,398              3,492           2,736             2,969        71.0           3.4        -0.7          21.7          23.7          14.5             6.9
Other Arirtultural Geds                         2,490            3,415             3,481           3,029              3,948           6,315            14,783          6.8         20.2         18.5          40,2         29.9           33.4           34.3
Minerals                                          400              641             1,022           1,085              1,082           2,433             5,941         39.5         22.4        19.5           684          10.7           12.9           13.8
Seni-Pr eassed Gleds                              476              634               645             789                969           1,269             2,753         18.3         12.6        16.8            7.7          7.8           6.7             6.4
Mansfact dred leads                             1,328            2,086             2,379           2,449              2,948           5,574            15,723         22.3         22.8        23.1           21.4         24.2           29.3           36.5
Other                                             161              195               209             581               ,497              595              938         33.0         11.8         9.4            2.6          3.8            3.1            2.2
Total                                    6,199            7,951             8,670          10,130             12,936           18,922           43,099         17.8         IC.9         17.9         1000.        108.i          108.0          188.8
C.     8ECTOR OUTPUT                                     Partet  E NRDP et FPaceot  Coat at 1973 Price-  and Excha.ee Rate
1.  Agricaltnre                                           15.3             15.1              15,0            14,3             14.4             14.4             12.2         5.4           6.5         5.3
2.  Indeatey                                              33.3             32,8              32,8            3                34                3               34.2         7.7           5.9         9.6
3,  Ser.-ces                                              51.5             12.0              52.2            52.1             52.3             32,8             53.6          7.8          6.8         9.1
D.     PRICES (1973 - 100)
1.  txpeo  Price laden                                   100              135              126              146                172              179               251        9.9           5.2         7.0
2.  Import Price Ide'                                    108              156              171              184                192             242                328       16.5           7,1         6.3
3,  Teema af Trade Inden                                 180               86                74              80                 90               74                76
4.  General P"-cc Index                                  100              129               164             232                 -                -                 -           _            -         '
5.  Aeesag  Exchange Rate                                IDO              112              134              176                         -                          -           -            -           -
E.     SELECTED INICATORS                                1969-73          1974-76           1977-80         1981-85                                         F.        EePLOYENT                           1970       1975       1980
1.  I0OR                                              1.80             3.60             3.58             2.63                                                 1.  LEbnr Farce (nillian)                29,4       34,1        39.4
2.  Impact Elnetleity                                 1.93           -0.03              0.46             1.03                                                 2.  Une=yloy.eet                           7.5        5.0        6.9
3.  Average Nst1i-l Saviega Rate                     0.21             0.13             0,27             8.23                                                        (g ef F.R,)
4.    -grginal Mati-att Sn-tngs Rate                  0.31             0.05             0.29             0.28                                                 3.  Emplyapa-t (million)                  27.2       32.4       36.7
5.  ITmcrta/GDP                                      0807c             0.099            0.076            0.074                                                       (% Sh-ee)
6.  Invla= tlat/CSP                                   0.229            0.237            0.225            0.235                                              3.1.  Agri-altora                          43.8        59.5       37.6
7.  Rescare.  Gap/GDP                                 8.01            0.04              0,01            -0,02                                               3.2.  Indosers                              18.0       19.8       18.8
3.3.  iarsman                              38.2       40.7       43.6
0.     PDBLIC FINGASCb
1.  C-rreet ie enon                                  11.0             11.2             11.2             12.1
1,1.  Tan Revenne                                      10.4             11.0             10,5             11.4
2.  Carrent ependinttre                               6,1              5.8              6.2              7.3
3.  C.rent SeeRags                                    4.9              5.4              5,0              4.8
4.  Capital Rxpenditorc-                              4.6              4.9              5.4              4.8
4.1.  GIe-r-ent Pined Capital PorFeatio  S/             3.9              4.2               4.8
H,      CURRENT FEDERAL GO.VE.RNMENT EXPENDIIUkE         Percent of Total
1973            1974              1975
1.    Edoatiec                                         8.6              9.0               9.8
2,    Other Seelol Sereires                           25.6             24.0              24.0
3.    Agrienl--re                                      2.1              1.9               2.1
4.    Other E.c.E-L. SIncmes                          11.7             12.5              15.7
5.    Admicistration and Defenee                      35.9             35.9              38.0
6.    Other                                           16.0             16.7              10.4
Tete1 Crant Eapeedit-ra                      100.00           100.0             100.0
*/  Dtetile  -y eat  -nn to iotals be-aooe of  -nding.                                                                                                                                                          Joney 1978
4/  FederalI Coeroment,
ci  I.eIcding elate aRd  -oiripal goveset-nta.



ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAMI:ICNTS AND EXTERNAL ASSIilAN4CF.                                            Page 4
(Million US$)
A C T U A L                        PreliminaryEstimate               P R O J E C T E D
1973            1974            1975            1976             1977           1978            1979             1980            1985
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (inel. NFS)                                            6,596           8,471            9,255         IC,657           13,583          15,464          17,374          20,232          46,766
2.    Imports (incl. NFS)                                            7,577          14,678          14,296          14,435           14,902          16,829          18,948          21,276          44,809
3.    Resource Balance                                               - 981          -6,207          -5,037          -3,778           -1,319          -1,365          -1,574           -1,043           1,957
4.    Net Factor Service Income                                      - 734           - 916          -1,735           -2,288          -2,624          -3,051          -3,383           -3,791          -5,416
1.  Net Interest Payments                                         - 514           _ 652          -1,463          -1, 758         -2,159           -2,533          -2,810          -3,155          -4,336
2.  Direct Investment Income                                      - 198           _ 248           - 235           - 380           - 415            - 468           - 523           - 586          -1,030
3.  Other Factor Service Income                                   -  22           _  16           -  37           - 150           -  50            -  50           -  50           -  50            -  50
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                            27               1             -                 4              10               10              10              10               10
6.    Balance on Current Account                                    -1,688          -7,122          -6,772           -6,062          -3,933          -4,407          -4,948           -4,825          -3,449
7.    Private Direct Investment                                        940             887              895           1,010           1,050           1,100            1,265           1,455           2,340
Medium and Long Term Loans                     *
a. Official Sources
8.    Disbursements                                                     562             979             856             768           1,024           1,234            1,404           1,585           2,722
9.    Amortization                                                    -217           - 191           - 273            - 384           - 367           - 391            - 488           - 597          -1 ,511
10.    Net Disbursements                                                 345             788             583             384             657              842             915             988           1,203
b. Private Sources
11,    Disbursements                                                  3,993           6,080            5,974           7.388           5,218           6,354            7,416           7,370           9,215
12.    Amortizationi                                                 -1,455          -1,716           -1,868          -2,488          -2,992          -3,892           -4,649          -4,989          -7,024
13.    Net Disbursements                                              2,538           4,364           4,106            4,900           2,226            2,462           2,767           2,381           2,191
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                              -                 7             -               -               -                -               -                                -
15.    Short-teru, Capital and Capital NEI                              424           - 123            - 142           1,961              255                                                              -
16.     Change in Reserves (- - increase)                            -2,559              953           1,046          -2,193            -255              -               -               -            -1,706
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                                      6,551           5,598            4,552           6,745           7,000            7,000           7,000           7,000          11,202
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1,    Total M&LT Loen                                                4,770       .   7,034           6,946            8,687
1.1.  IBRD                                                             199              140             426             486
1.2.  IDB                                                               86              203             167             186
1.3.  Governments                                                       529             518             512           1,251
1.4.  Suppliers                                                        857           1,088           1,376            1,300
*        1.5.  Bonds                                                              37              25             -                139
1,6.  Finiancial Credits                                             3,146           5,103           4,515            6,076
C.  Memorandum I tenis
1.    Granr Fl e`1"ent of Total Coumiitmenrs                             2.5             2.5             2.5              2,5
2.    Avc-rage I, (erest (Pe-cenit)                                      8.8             9.5             9.5              9.14
3.    Avcrnage Mniterity (Years)                                          7.2             9.0             9.9              8.3
January.1978



- 25 -
S, a/                     ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTITIIESS                            Page
1973            1974            1975           1976
A. Mediutw-and long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                        12,571          17,166          21,171         25,985
1.  Financial Credits             ,                           7,84s           11,211         14,561          18,194
2.  Others (Bit., Multi., Bonds, Suppliers)                   4,723            5,955          6,610           7,79'
3.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                            6,496            8,533         11,461          14,852
4.  Private                                                   6,075            8,633          9,710          11,133
2.  Net Debt Service                                               2,186           2,572           3,583          4,668
1.  Total Interest                                              840            1,370          1,o28          2,039
2.  Net Interest                                                 514             652          1,463          1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                             --             1,287          1,550           1,990
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio                                            28.6            30.4            38.7           43.3
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio b/                                   36.1            33.3           45.1            46.5
3,  Public Debt Service Ratio                                          --             15.2           16,7            18.7
4.  Liquidity Ratio c/                                                19.4            24.7            35.0           33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP d/                                            2.8             2.5             2.9            3.4
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP d/                                         --              1.2            1.2             1.4
7.  Total DOD/GDP d                                                   16.1            16.4           17.2            19.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                    8.8            10.9           10.5           10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                        17.4            15.0           16.9           lS.O
D. De?endency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross DisbursementsfImports (ind. NFS)                            60.2            48.1           47.1           56.5
i,  Net Transfer/Imports (ind. NFS)                                   27.0            25. 7          19.4           22.5
3.  N,t Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                  44.9           52.6            41.3           39.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                       4.2            3.5             3.7            2.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                 5.1            5.1             5.2            4.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                 3.2             3.3            2.6            2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                    Outstanding December 31, 1976
Amount                            Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                     1,217                                4.7
2,  Other Mul.ilateral                                                         557                                2.1
3.  Governments                                                              2,862                               11.0
4.  Suppliers                                                                2,414                                9.3
5.  Bonds                                                                      289                                1.1
6.  Financial Credits                                                       18,194                               70.0
7.  Other                                                                      452                                1.7
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                         25,985                             100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                                  14,852                              57.1
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-80/Total DOD end of 1976                                  108.5
a/  Details of debt for end 1977 are not vet available; 1977 figures quoted in text are preliinnarv estimare=.              -
b/ Including Net Direct Investment Income.
c/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports plus reserves in excess of 3 months imports.
d/  In constant 1973 Prices.                                                                                   January 1978
--  Not Available



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-eight loans fully disbursed                                1,091.9
677   1970  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas        Power                80.0           3.3
Marimbondo
728   1971  Centrais Eletricas do Sol          Power                70.0           4.3
do Brasil - Salto Osorio
755   1971  Brazil                             Education             8.4           1.3
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports                45.0          19.6
786   1971  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            46.0            4.9
797   1972  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                64.5            .3
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry             64.5           1.9
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power                60.0            .4
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement       6.7           4.4
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0          59.7
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        54.0          32.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          42.6
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitacao        Water Supply         36.0          10.2
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5          22.6
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0          60.2
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          65.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          92.2
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          57.9
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0          18.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          54.7
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0            11.4



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1206   1976  Brazil                           Develop. Bank         85.0            78.9
1207   1976  Brazil                           Feeder Roads          55.0            55.0
1249   1976  Brazil                           Agriculture           40.0            39.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           50.0             39.1
1257   1976  Companhia Paraense de            Power                 52.0            48.0
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300   1976  Eletrobras                       Power                50.0             48.6
1302   1976  Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0            18.6
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0            37.6
1317   1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry        83.0             83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                82.0             72.2
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Develop.       42.0             39.9
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           64.0             62.2
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer           82.0             76.4
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452/1 1977  Brazil                           Education            32.0             32.0
1488/2 1977  Brazil                           Rural Develop.        17.0            17.0
Total                                              3,199.4 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 444.0
Total now outstanding                              2,755.4
Amount sold                            45.6
of which has been repaid            28.6            17.0
Total now held by Bank                             2,738.4
Total undisbursed                                                  1,315.2
/1   Became effective on April 5, 1978.
/2   Became effective on March 28, 1978.
/3   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, a loan of $110
million for the Sao Paulo sewage collection and treatment project was
approved on February 28, 1978 and signed on March 10, 1978, and two
loans totalling $154 million for a power distribution project in the
south and southeast and for a rural development project in Paraiba were
approved by the Executive Directors on March 28, 1978.



ANNEX II
PFge 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of February 2bi. 19/d)
Fiscal Year                               obligor                                          Type of Eusiness                                              Amount in USS million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957             Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                               Electrical Equipment                                          2.00        -        2.00
1958             Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                                     Pulp and Paper                                                1.20        -        1.20
1938             D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                                     Automotive Parts                                              0.45        -        0.45
1958             Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                              Motor Vehicles                                                2.45                 2.45
1959             Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                          Cement                                                        1.20        -        1.20
1959             Champion Celulose, S.A.                                              Pulp                                                          4.00       -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972             Acos Villares, S.A.                                                  Steel                                                         8.00      1.93       9.93
1966/1969        Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                                   Pulp and Paper                                                 3.78      3.41      7.19
1967/1972        Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                                  Fertilizers                                                   8.22      3.03    11.25
1969             Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                             Petrochemnicals                                               5.,50     2.88      8.38
1970             Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                              Petrochemticals                                               5.50      2.38       8.38
1971             Oxiteno, S.A. Indastria e  Comercio                                  Petrochemicals                                                4.60      1.44       6.04
1971             Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.                               Pulp                                                          4.90        -       4.90
1972/1975        Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                               Cement                                                       29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                          Steel                                                        76.5j9 6    7.53    84.4S 6
1973             Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                             Capital Market Development                                    5.00       -         5.00
1973             Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos
Minerais - CODENEN, S.A.                                          Nickel Mining md Refining                                    26.00      4.40    30.40
1974             Industrias Villares, S.A.                                            Elevatork and ladustrial Equipment                            6.00        -        6.00
1974             Fabrica de Tecidos Tastuape, S.A.                                    Textiles                                                     31.00        -      31.00
1975             Capuava Carbonos Indastriais Ltd.                                    Carbon Black         -                                        6.18       1.08      7.26
1975             Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                               Petrochemicals                                               10.00        -      10.00
1976             Santista lndastria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                        Textiles                                                      6.45       1.00      7.45
;976             Tecanor S.A. - Textil Cararinense do Nordeste                        Textiles       -             -                                6.00       -        6.00
1977             FM1B S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                                     Iron and AlumiKum Castings                                  20.00        -       20.00
1977             Mineracao Rio do Nortes,9A,                                          Mining                                                       15.00        -        5.00
1978             Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                               Iron and Steel                                               7.0        3.0      10.0
Total Gross Comsitments                                                                                                         296.53      35.75   332.28
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                                          194.91        8.43   203.34
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                                                               101.62      27.32   128.94
Total Undisbursed                                                                                                                28.13       3.08    31.21



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
There are now 36 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of- a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two oE the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978. Progress on
the construction and equipping of the project schools is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been completed. A
20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being financed by the
Government. Project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays in establishing and staffing the project unit
and because of subsequent changes in project content.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is
completed. The inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for
the left bank rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a
loan from Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient
increases in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is
experiencing financial difficulties.
786       Railway Project - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed. Final payments on contracts are
being carried out.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Although one year behind schedule and with a
significant increase in cost, the project is now physically complete.
Final payments on equipment contracts are being completed.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1978. The Stage II project will be essentially
complete by December 1978 at a total project cost of US$970 million.
This is thirty (30) months behind the appraisal schedule and
US$593 million (157%) higher than anticipated at the time of
appraisal. Production reached 1.54 million tons of raw steel
equivalent in 1977, compared with .79 million tons in 1976 and
the 1.74 million tons forecast for 1978. COSIPA has confirmed
that the project's design capacity of 2.3 million tons of raw
steel capacity will be achieved at the completion of the produc-
tion build-up phase. With the pending completion of the
construction phase, management has placed considerable emphasis
on production and internal cash generation.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by loca'L and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit, road construction and COLONE working capital require-
ments and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to 130%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project;  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. During the second half of 1977, the Government
restricted the funds available for sub-loans under this project
in line with its policy of restricting credit expansion to control
inflation. However, budgetary allocations for 1978 will allow
commitments to continue at the rate envisaged in earlier forecasts.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and new towns to
house the urban portion of the population have been constructed.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses are being resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 12 months behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now fully committed to 41 subprojects of which 29 are
under construction and 12 completed.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is proceeding reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and have yielded useful information for future
sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items.  Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower improved in 1977, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Covernment recently decided to deregulate most
freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, it will make payments to the
railways to meet deficits on uneconomic services which it wishes to
remain in operation. These actions should significantly improve
the borrower's financial position.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project due to changes in
forecast demand. The effect of this change on the economic justif-
ication of the project and its financial implications is presently
being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on construc-
tion for this project during 1977 because of heavy rains in the
project area. Physical completion of the project will probably
extend to 1980, and postponement of the closing date may be required.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. Modifications in
the design of emergency and irrigation works are being studied by
CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to limiting further cost
increases. Project implementation has encountered certain opposi-
tion from the population of the project area, which disagreed with
the principles and procedures for land expropriation, settlement,
future land tenure and the structure of the proposed cooperative
system. The implementing agency CODEVASF is revising the social
strategy to be followed under the project by improving communication
and relations with the area population.



- 34             ~            ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. Although FEPASA's financial
position has improved, it is still not satisfactory. The Government
recently deregulated most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, the
state government has undertaken to make payments to the railways to
meet deficits on uneconomic services which it wishes to remain in
operation. These actions should assist in significantly improving
FEPASA's financial position.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been particularly successful. Disbursements are behind the
original appraisal schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the industry's
demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource constraints
of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate commitment
of the loan, the Loan Agreement has been amended to permit withdrawals
up to the full estimated foreign exchange content of subprojects.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing more satisfactorily if still rather slowly.
Three sub-loans totalling US$12.6 million of Bank financing have
been approved and two more are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at the 21 stations. Facilities and research
programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority regions
(North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in accordance
with project goals. Staffing is in advance of project goals.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project !Lmplementation is about 12 months behind schedule
due to initial clifficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Disagreements, now resolved, on nutri-
tional and techinical criteria have delayed BNDE participation in
the project. The INAN project unit is staffed with seven pro-
fessionals out of the ten needed. The nutrition delivery system's
field tests are proceeding reasonably well. The other components
of the project are proceeding on schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The Bank has approved sub-loans
for 75 projects in cities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 14 projects
in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants and 3 projects in
cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. Several additional sub-
projects are being reviewed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 19 82. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin until later in 1978. Budgetary allocations
for 1978 will allow commitments to continue at the rate envisaged
in earlier forecast.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. Procurement and construction are now underway and pro-
ceeding according to schedule, with no major problems encountered.
Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal forecast because of
delays in preparing bidding documents which resulted in delays of
contract awards. However, disbursements are expected to be on
schedule by year-end 1978.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23. 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
well. However, because of the agricultural credit restrictions
imposed by the Government during the second half of 1976 and in
early 1977, as part of its program to control inflation, credit
for this project was delayed. However, Banco do Brasil has recently
agreed to release the necessary funds, and the credit program is
expected to resume according to the agreed schedule. Due mainly to
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by land-
less producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but the Government and the participating banks have given assurances
that this would be corrected in the future. Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date:  April 5, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1488      CEARA Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
September 13, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events.
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately one year.
(b) Project prepared by: EBTU and various local entities with the
assistance of GEIPOT and consultants.
(c) First presentatiLon to the Bank: January 1977.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1977.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 5, 1978.
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: August 15, 1978.
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) EBTU to review its guidelines for the preparation and evaluation
of urban transport projects (para. 33).
(b) EBTU to appraise the sub-project in Belo Horizonte in accordance
with an established set of guidelines (para. 36).
(c) EBTU to carry out a study of the potential for applying economic
disincentives for the use of private cars in Brazilian cities
(para. 43).
(d) The Municipality of Curitiba to provide economic justification
satisfactory to the Bank before building additional service lanes
along the fourth structural axis (para. 44).
(e) The Municipality of Salvador to undertake various measures to
complement the construction and equipment to be financed under
the project (paLra. 45).
(f) The Municipality of Salvador to take various measures to ensure
that benefits from the project accrue fully to current residents
of a low-income neighborhood (para. 46).



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(g) The Municipality of Recife to undertake various measures to
complement the construction and equipment to be financed under
the project (para. 47).
(h) The metropolitan development agency of Recife to carry out a
study of the operation and regulation of bus services
(para. 47).
(i) The Municipality of Porto Alegre to undertake various measures
to complement the construction and equipment to be financed
under the project (para. 48).
(j) EBTU to design and carry out a program satisfactory to the Bank
to monitor urban transport conditions in the project cities
(para. 57).
(k) Municipalities to revise for taxation purposes the valuation of
property affected by the project (para. 60).



VPO           O         IOEEST,                                                    FXSTNGComeria
SOUTH AMERICA
BAZIL
~~vsjis~~            IL 025Hh=scdAcesRcs                                                        F-ComrllSrle
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-5,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
URBAN TRANSPORTATION ~~~~                ~ ~~~~~~PROJECT    resnAvus                          GenAeo
T,                                 of C t                                T         L.trcl Ar.d
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
B-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.. .d                                                            OE
rc,,.piao Sm  mourn so~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~13~T.L.1                                             C-,.
Fo, do/guu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ML,Hgh.~-dA, .d
Citro   Criib RridaR,.,






IBRD 13152
CITY OF RECIFE                                                                             -    \   r                                                           DETAIL OF EXPANDED CENTER AREA                                                                               APRIL 1978
/<27  ,.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                           /     9                                                     wf;  .~~~~~~~~~~~OSWA 06 ^*;;;-''-/1<
CITY   OF  KLt.lrt                                                 '    C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.'
COWA~~~~~~~~~~~A
O L I N D A!R1
Inc                                      ~~~~~~~~A AARQ4
71~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~J
-ov Xcr  I    f                                                             -      ;4~  /  FIRMA.  NOV%
0~~~~~~~P                  H  G                               Ac    f l;IBt          CU Q    l   tAr HFtr/1 0 !,> 9  .rgog!t 
BARES        IES                                                                                                                                                                            B 2 ed
S_t r r v < t if0- \ ]&* &<(W } WA                                                                                                                                                e               -       Sot fc                          / /;t
<~~~~~~~~~~~o ==:                                       _          "a   K  WlA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                                                                   r ~ *        t ri     A'                                                             A/ ,  0 .                 1.0i- C - 
AA                                                                 BRAZIL
55c!>ffn1 o i27 Unj2,vS;; s % EE j5NCJ2!1i:1AIAI U rb a n                                                                                                                                                                                       .t gTra ns p ortatio n.  ,  Project74 kis
i;:12D;;g<,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;                                                                                     D  S e c o n   p e n m t o               C o tro   n: rl n~   0 :"::E7R    :  
i31~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cn aI nocac by- ass reac  t  i*                                    q            t               Socsoy ces cos sisst                           'tS  A                 -
j"-      -Mjcpabnco 
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
::: > : ) \ ; _SK i~~~~~~~~PSP                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i   j,LrAs}  1{ k  j  i- i: '  i   Gi4A  .S .
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z SIP IIt              lgS:-,- . ,L;r           1r   
a @ 5\6    ;X z   t | j  _ R~~ jrt    m; tE - ;Tr=  itC ;rAi                                                     ~Urban  TransipOortRaEtioFn  Project~>                                                          
.                   S\~~~~~~M81RIP lXA           i/                       le  f      g    i;                                        -eodermro                                     erlnues                       > 0           U    T  H      --|
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                                  p -   m p...   -       0t           E   .p. trm nd .   - et.ro     or              e sree t A   Z Brs L
eu    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                            f . 1   - 1   b y -p   / j    =. .   - u n . c  p S - b n d . ,y -| - t   s i   - d ,   o - !t >{
...rspnra .U.....                                                                                                                                                      p-ng                 /              t , . .-                                          5t 






IBRD 13153
APRIL  1978
BRAZIL
=;  \.URBAN TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT
City of Porto Alegre
PROJECT
R~~~~~~~LcC, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pre Corridor Bus Priority
Measures
Roadl Imnprovements
C     A, . Bus Terminals
Jl     J2wXXt J'l; !SiLS 7                   EXISTING
t ./.    -   Major Access Roads and Streets
Secondary Access Roads
and Streets
-t----Railroadis
/0/ < 7 toCentra:l Business Area
r'do            ~~~Built -up Areas
Green Areas
f I  =;, Rivers
0        1000       2000       3000       4000
METERS
j  lt:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IESITY,| BR   {VJ  /8ODQ|   1|:1i;i.0    :2  ;yL.: 75fA rZ I4A/
BRAZIL[
T/,, -p h} b-^Y pt k tff -R                                                                                        A  LAN TIC
of 'theL _d.r of thN onpo to -6,rh tie att-had r den [   sed a t
bo\onrat ho  - on.h,s nap do not imply. on he part o the Wr,d ank Ban -d ,                                            OCEAN
af ititnay ydgn_, on th  igal  ,ttato   A   yn teritny or any end---mn1o                                   LER
ap- of no boor- darie






BRD 13154
i; t > g 0 ] S ' < X Ak V 5 hq A z = j ;; DU t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9':731                                                                                         A   V7  
ui
a-
o-
Ldo 2 Ct  t  \  9  0r \ 0 rnJS 60b/ z P M5 i>fw4 S
z  7=                                                                                                                                                                                  n       _ __ A AO
<                                                                                                                                 wo-'t                                                                                     CA
c://=tT. ...............00:'i0 o'- '' ''   ''.
O af                                  ^F                           -                   E         A>                              B7AA/                                                                                              zo 
/ 4 _ _ w > aW ; ., N X E _ C _ _ , X X . m |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
F  X   S <                    p           u          a          n           d            XWS             9   7     S      =       m     j b           M     )    @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
/< < > 87 AV EOLANDE PA wn ;W Y U * U l :7. . .,: g zr 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
/ / 4 _// . .i ZO.  g g gM M  
// 1 7A E~~~~~~~~~dUS=7 J > uSU| | | ; 0 Wrqvs tg 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
> \ _\; 1 < // 5 N As > S E a ' A 7 70 t I g ; oS g r SA r A X | E 7 7 * ' ' 4 7,
5 1 _ / / ,/~~~X // -0 s S ' so Y i N r1 e1 u i 7 om ,i Jx gJi 7JX i, 9X7 i rf3Sg . y | > rv t/> % t t~~~~~~~Q
29             /ti                                                     ort1,; ]               7rNaa2B@ir    iA     SLUAWj                           -                  77i 



