- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Municipality shall prepare
and, acting through EBTU, forward to the Bank as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Municipality shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Municipality of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Brazil


﻿- 11 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Municipality and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group B bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or
(B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and (ii) to the ex-
factory bid price of the domestically supplied goods offered in
each Group B bid an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which would be levied on such goods
if they originated from the same foreign country as the goods


﻿- 12 -
import taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory price of such such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect co all contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Municipality shall furnish,
acting through EBTU, to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Munici-
pality shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish, acting through EBTU, to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Munici-
pality and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 13 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Municipality shall furnish to EBTU, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery by EBTU to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
other information shall be furnished to the procurement unit
within EBTU to enable EBTU to prepare a semiannual procurement
report for the Bank. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Municipality and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Municipality shall,
through EBTU, inform the Bank of the proposed modification,
waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The
Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Municipality, and state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
The Municipality may use force account for the execution of
the civil works required for the bus terminal located at the
industrial city; and for minor paving work under Part B. 3 of the
Project.


