CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1563 BR
Project Agreement
(Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
and
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DA REGIAO
METROPOLITANA - PLAMBEL
and
MUNICIPALITY OF BELO HORIZONTE
and
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES URBANOS - EBTU
Dated May 22, 1978


﻿LOAN NO. 1563 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, party of the first
part (such party of the first part hereinafter called the
Bank), and STATE OF MINAS GERAIS (hereinafter sometimes
called the State), SUPERINTENDENCIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DA REGIAO
METROPOLITANA - PLAMBEL (hereinafter sometimes called PLAMBEL),
MUNICIPALITY OF BELO HORIZONTE (hereinafter sometimes called the
Municipality), parties of the second part (any of such parties
of the second part hereinafter sometimes individually called
an Executing Entity and all such parties of the second part
hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Executing Entities),
and EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES URBANOS - EBTU, party of
the third part (such party of the third part hereinafter called
EBTU).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-
eight million dollars ($88,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition inter alia
that the Executing Entities and EBTU agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter and in the EBTU
Project Agreement (as this term is defined in the Loan Agreement)
set forth;
(B) by a Convenio (as this term is defined in the Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower, acting through
SEPLAN/PR, CNPU (as those terms are defined in the Loan Agreement)
and the Ministry of Transport, the Executing Entities and EBTU,
the portion of the proceeds of the loan provided under the Loan
Agreement for the carrying out of Part A of the Project, as such
part is described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, will be made
available to the Executing Entities on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Executing Entities and EBTU, in consideration of
the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. The Executing Entities shall carry out Part A
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and urban
transport practices, and the State and the Municipality shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Executing Entities
in the execution of final engineering designs, the Executing
Entities shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Executing Entities undertakes
to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Executing
Entity to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each of the
Executing Entities shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for Part A of the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) The Executing Entities, acting through
EBTU, shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation,
such plans, specifications, reports, contracts documents and
construction and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each of the Executing Entities: (i) shall maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of Part A of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the faci-
lities and construction sites included in Part A of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, acting
through EBTU, to the Bank at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
made available to it and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Executing Entities and the Bank, the Executing Entities shall
prepare and furnish, acting through EBTU, to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of Part A of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Executing Entities, EBTU and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. Each of the Executing Entities shall duly
perform all its obligations under the Convenio. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Executing Entities shall not take
or concur In any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Convenio or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) Each of the Executing Entities shall, at
the request of the Bank (notice of which shall have been given


﻿to EBTU), exchange views with the Bank and EBTU with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the ConvAnio, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Each of the Executing Entities, acting through EBTU,
shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part A of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by such Executing Entity of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Convenio.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants of the State
Section 3.01. The State shall cause PLAMBEL at all times to
carry on its operationsi manage its affairs and maintain its
financial position in accordance with appropriate administrative
and financial principles and practices, under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management.
Section 3.02. The State shall appoint and maintain, during
the execution of Part A of the Project, a coordinator selected by
the Conselho Deliberativo of the metropolitan region and cause
such coordinator to cooperate closely with EBTU through the
general coordinator appointed by EBTU for the purposes of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenant of PLAMBEL
Section 4.01. PLAMBEL shall supervise the execution of Part A
of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenant of the Municipality
Section 5.01. The Municipality shall, upon completion of
Part A of the Project, take appropriate steps, following proce-
dures prescribed by the applicable legislation, to revise the
valuation for tax purposes of properties whose values shall have
been affected by Part A of the Project.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE VI
Particular Covenants of EBTU
Section 6.01. EBTU shall provide the Executing Entities
with the assistance required for the carrying out of Part A of the
Project. To that end, EBTU shall through its general coordinator
closely cooperate with the coordinator appointed at the metropoli-
tan level by the State.
Section 6.02. EBTU shall make available to the Executing
Entities such experts employed under Part F of the Project as
may be necessary to assist the Executing Entities in the carrying
out of Part A of the Project.
Section 6.03. EBTU shall assist PLAMBEL in the development
of procedures necessary for the monitoring program referred to
in Section 3.06 of the EBTU Project Agreement and provide PLAMBEL
with the funds required for such purpose.
ARTICLE VII
Financial Covenants
Section 7.01. (a) Each of the State, PLAMBEL and the Munici-
pality shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the Project,
of PLAMBEL and of the departments or agencies of the State and the
Municipality, respectively, responsible for carrying out Part A of
the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Each of the State, PLAMBEL and the Municipality shall
promptly furnish to EBTU the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section Ind other information concerning
such records and accounts to enable EBTU to comply with the
requirements of Section 4.02 (b) of the EBTU Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 8.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect pursuant to the provisions of Sections 6.01 and 6.02 of


﻿- 6 -
the Loan Agreement on the date upon which the Loan Agreement
becomes effective, or on the date upon which the Bank dispatches
to the Borrower, the State, PLAMBEL, the Municipality and EBTU
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 (d) (i) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 8.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Executing Entities and EBTU thereunder shall terminate
on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the
Executing Entities and EBTU thereof.
Section 8.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 9.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For the State:
Palacio dos Despachos
Praga de Liberdade
30000 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Brazil
Telex:
0311190
For PLAMBEL:
Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento
da Regigo Metropolitana - PLAMBEL
Avenida Brasil 688
30000 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Brazil
For the Municipality:
Prefeitura Municipal de
Belo Horizonte
Avenida Afonso Pena 1212
30000 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Brazil
Telex:
0311397
For EBTU:
Empresa Brasileira dos
Transportes Urbanos - EBTU
Edificio Toufic
70000 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611604
Section 9.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the parties hereto, other than the
Bank, may be taken or executed separately by the Governor of Minas
Gerais (on behalf of the State), the President of PLAMBEL (on


﻿- 8 -
behalf of PLAMBEL), the Mayor of Belo Horizonte (on behalf of
the Municipality) and the President of EBTU (on behalf of EBTU) or
such other person or persons as each of them shall designate in
writing, and each of them shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 9.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of
Brasilia, D.F., Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Humayun Mirza
Authorized Representative
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Helio BrAz de Oliveira Martes
Authorized Representative
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DA REGIAO
METROPOLITANA - PLAMBEL
By /s/ Roberto Vicchi
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
MUNICIPALITY OF BELO HORIZONTE
By /s/ Luiz Verano
Authorized Representative
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES
URBANOS - EBTU
By /s/ Alberto Silva
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Gil Cesar Moreira Abreu
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Part A of the Project
1.   Establishment of bus lanes in radial corridors connecting the
central area of the city with its peripheral zones (to be carried
out by PLAMBEL and the Municipality).
2.   Introduction of traffic management and engineering measures
which will synchronize and coordinate traffic signals and improve
traffic flow while favoring buses and will discourage long-term
parking in the city's downtown area, to increase the effective
capacity of the radial corridors and the central area (to be
carried out by PLAMBEL and the Municipality).
3.   Construction of the new road link required for the imple-
mentation of the radial corridor improvements referred to in
paragraph 1 above (to be carried out by the Municipality).
4.   Paving of bus routes in low-income neighborhoods (to be
carried out by the Municipality).


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Executing Entities shall
prepare and, acting through EBTU, forward to the Bank as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or prequal-
ification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Executing
Entities shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Executing Entities of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Brazil


﻿- 12 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the inf or-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following two groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Executing Entities and the Bank
that such goods contain components manufactured
in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(b) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group B bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs duties and
other imported taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or
(B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and (ii) to the
ex-factory bid price of the domestically supplied goods offered in
each Group B bid an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which would be levied on such goods
if they originated from the same foreign country as the goods


﻿- 13 -
included in a group B bid which enjoy the lowest customs duties
and other import taxe3, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory price of such
goods if said custows duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Executing Entities shall
furnish, acting through EBTU, to the Bank, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Exe-
cuting Entities shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish, acting through
EBTU, to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
and such other information as the Bank ohall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Executing Entities and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 14 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Executing Entities shall furnish to EBTU, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery by EBTU to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and other information shall be furnished to the procurement
unit within EBTU to enable EBTU to prepare a semiannual procure-
ment report for the Bank. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Executing Entities and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Executing Entities shall,
through EBTU, inform the Bank of the proposed modification,
waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The
Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Executing Entities and state the reasons for its determination.


