Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P738 1-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$70.7 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
TO SUPPORT THE PROVINCE
OF CATAMARCA
August 21, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Peso
US$1 = ARG$1
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CPI            Consumer Price Index
DGI            Direcci6n General Impositiva (National Tax Department)
DGR            Direcci6n General de Rentas (Provincial Revenues Department)
DVP            Direcci6n Validad Provincial (Provincial Road Department)
EFF            Extended Fund Facility
ENOHSA         Ente Nacional de Obras Hidricas de Saneamiento (National Water Agency)
ENRE           Ente Regulador de Catamarca (Provincial Regulatory Agency)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
LPR            Letter of Provincial Reform
NBI            Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas (Unsatisfied Basic Needs)
OSP            Obra Social Provincial (Provincial Health Insurance Fund for Workers)
PRESSAL        Provincial Health Sector Reform Project
PRL            Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES    Secondary Education Decentralization Project
PROMIN         National Program for Maternal and Child Nutrition and Health
SSAL           Special Structural Adjustment Loan
TOR            Terms of Reference
VAT            Value Added Tax
Vice President                    Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director                  Ms. Myrna Alexander
Sector Director                   Mr. Emesto May
Task Manager                      Mr. Mark Hagerstrom



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN - CATAMARCA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
I.   THE SETTING                                                           1
Recent Economic Performance and External Shocks                       I
The Provincial Context                                                3
Individual Provincial Reform Programs                                 9
II.   THE REFORMING PROVINCE OF CATAMARCA                                  1 5
Background and Recent Reform Efforts                                  15
The Reform Program of the Province of Catamarca                       17
Public Finance and Administration                               18
Education                                                       22
Health                                                          24
Private Sector Development                                      25
III.  THE PROPOSED LOAN                                                    27
Loan Objective and Rationale                                          27
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations                              27
Role of the National Government                                       28
Collaboration with Other Operations and Technical
Assistance Needs                                                     28
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions                           30
Loan Description                                                      30
Borrower and Loan Amount                                        30
Tranche Disbursement                                            31
Letter of Provincial Reform                                     31
Conditions of Tranche Release                                   31
Program Implementation                                          31
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing                          31
Monitoring Indicators                                           32
Environmental Concerns                                          32
Participatory Aspects                                           33
Benefits and Risks                                              35
IV.  RECOMMENDATION                                                        36
This Report is based on the findings of a team composed of Mark Hagerstrom (mission leader), Raul
Benitez, William Experton, Alexandre Abrantes, David Rosenblatt, Marcelo Becerra (Consultant),
Olympia lcochea, Fabio Bertranou (Consultant), Asif Faiz, Gerard Liautaud, Yoko Katakura, and John
Wilkins (Consultant) that visited Argentina in July/August 1999. Other team members included the
following consultants: Richard Bird, Mark Fairless, Oscar Libonatti, Fedetico Mejer, and Luis Perez.
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A. Letter of Provincial Reform
B. Matrix of Conditionality
C. Matrix of Gender Issues and Actions
D. Documents in the Project File
E. Statements of Loans and Credits
F. Country at a Glance
G. Overview of Revenue-Sharing
H. Overview of the Provinces
I. Overview of Provincial Debt
Map - IBRD 29348



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN - CATAMARCA
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agencies:   Subsecretaria de Programaci6n Regional, Ministerio de Economia,
Puiblicas, the Provincial Coordinating Unit and provincial
ministries and agencies
Beneficiary:            Provincial Government of Catamarca
Povertv:                The Province of Catamarca belongs to the part of Argentina with
the worst social and economic indicators. Its per capita income, at
$4,500, is about half the national average, and 17th out of 24
provinces. Within the reform program to be supported, the health
component has a specific goal to reach the poor and provide basic
health coverage to non-insured indigent population. The education
component seeks to redirect spending towards schools in poorer
neighborhoods and would provide for special retention programs to
reduce the drop out rate among children from poorer families.
Amount:                 US$70.7 million
Terms:                  The single currency loan in U.S. dollars, repaid in 15 years,
including five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate
Commitment Fee:         0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:        Identical to those contracted by the Argentine Republic with the
Bank
Schedule of Disbursements: (in US$ Million)
Dis.              Cum.
First Tranche     2nd quarter FY2001       25.7               25.7
Second Tranche   2nd quarter FY2002        20.0               45.7
Third Tranche     1 st quarter FY2003      25.0               70.7
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Project Identification No.: P044447






REPORT AND RECOMM ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED
PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$70.7 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
TO SUPPORT THE PROVINCE
OF CATAMARCA
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
the proposed loan to the Argentine Republic for US$70.7 million to support fiscal
adjustment and structural reform of the Province of Catamarca. The loan would be a
variable rate LIBOR-based dollar loan, with a grace period of 5 years, a final maturity of
15 years and level repayment of principal. The Argentine Republic would onlend the
local currency equivalent of the loan to the Province on the same terms (an arrangement
made possible by the 1: 1 peso: dollar exchange rate fixed by Argentine law).
TiHE SETTING
RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND EXTERNAL SHOCKS
Economic Reform and Growth
2.    Since the launch of the Convertibility Plan in 1991, the Argentine economy has
been transformed through a currency board arrangement as part of a sweeping set of
reforms that altered the monetary system, improved fiscal and tax policies, liberalized
trade, and reformed the public sector including privatization and changes to the social
security system. All of this was intended to reverse the long-term trend of slow growth,
low labor productivity, state domination, low domestic savings, weak investmnent, high
volatility, and chronic inflation, which the country had suffered for the previous 25 years.
When hyperinflation broke out in 1989, the rate of poverty in the country climbed to over
40 percent of the population.
3.    The economic results of the Government's reform program have been dramatic.
Argentina has experienced strong average economic growth in the 1990's, with the size
of the economy expanding from an estimated $141 billion in 1990 to $282 billion by
1999, despite being hit by two severe external shocks and ensuing recessions Instead of
experiencing hyperinflation, Argentina has now one of the world's lowest rates of
inflation. The Federal Govermnent's fiscal deficit receded from an average of about 6-8
percent of GDP for most of the 1980s to 1.4 percent in 1998. Foreign debt is moderate as
a share of GDP, equivalent to 51 percent; however, the country's export base is small so
that total external debt represents more than four times the annual base of exports of
goods and services, and debt service has represented 60 to 85 percent of total exports in
recent years.



4.    Although the Government has moved aggressively to lower total debt and debt
service with a debt restructuring plan in 1993, and increased the maturities of the public
share of external debt to about 9.7 years on average, the large amount of external
indebtedness and dependence on external capital flows to finance the fiscal deficit and
increased investment levels have left the economy exposed and vulnerable to external
shocks. Moreover, while many social indicators have improved in the past ten years (for
example, infant mortality has dropped from 25 deaths per 1000 births in 1991 to about 19
deaths per 1000 births in 1998), poverty levels have stubbornly stayed high despite rapid
economic growth: The Bank's latest estimates put poverty at about 29 percent of the
urban population.' It is likely much higher in the rural areas. This situation is
compounded by rising income inequality and high unemployment, especially for the
unskilled, indicating that the benefits of growth have not been widely shared. Thus,
Argentina still has a large social agenda to fulfil as the continuation of its economic
program.
External Shocks
5.    During the 1990s, Argentina has suffered the consequences of two serious
external shocks. The first came in late 1994-1995 after the devaluation of the Mexican
peso. The economy shrank by 2.8 percent in 1995 but following this crisis, strong,
investment-led growth returned. Real GDP growth was 5.5 percent in 1996 and an
impressive 8.1 percent in 1997. Support from the Bank Group, IDB and IMF were
critical in helping Argentina to recover and to implement continuing reforms as well as
launch important targeted social programs. The second test occurred in 1998-99, as a
result of the combined effects of the downturn in East Asia, the devaluation of the
Russian ruble and the Brazilian real, and deterioration of commodity prices After growth
of 6.6 percent in the first half of 1998, growth fell to -0.6 percent in the fourth quarter of
1998. For that year as a whole, GDP growth was 3.9 percent. Even though the economy
went into recession in late 1998, Argentina's commitment to prudent macroeconomic
management and the discipline inherent in its currency board arrangement generated
confidence and Argentina was among the first emerging economies to regain access to
international capital markets. The Bank's special support late in 1998 played a
significant role in this recovery.
6.    The economic downturn in 1999 turned out to be deeper and longer than
expected, especially in light of the progress made in Brazil to stabilize its economy.
Overall, Argentina's GDP is estimated to have declined by 3.1 percent in 1999, a larger
drop in output than experienced during the Tequila crisis of 1995. Unemployment, after
falling to about 12 percent from the high of 18 percent reached in 1996, increased to 14
percent in late 1999. The volume of exports remained fairly stable (although prices had
fallen) as Argentina was able to find substitute markets for its exports. Because of the
sharp contraction in domestic activity, the current account balance improved slightly to
4.3 percent of GDP, due to even larger declines for imports (particularly capital goods).
Inflation remains extremely low, with deflation during 1999.
See the Bank's most recent Poverty Assessment for Argentina, Report No. 19992-AR, dated March 23,
2000.
2



7.    Fiscal performance deteriorated during 1999 and the fiscal program went off track
in the latter part, ending the year with a deficit of about $7.2 billion, considerably higher
than the target of $5 billion agreed with the IMF. The higher deficit was the result of
higher interest costs, the duration of the recession, and a general weakening of fiscal
discipline during the election year. Provincial governments encountered similar
conditions and they ended the year with a deficit of about $4.3 billion, almost twice the
deficit in 1998. In total the consolidated public sector fiscal deficit amounted to about
4.1 percent of GDP, excluding privatization receipts. As a result, the new administration
took swift action in December 1999 to restore order in the fiscal accounts, including
those of the provinces.
8.    IMF Programn. A new agreement with the IMF for a three-year, $7.4 billion
Stand-By arrangement was approved in March 2000. The target 2000 deficit for the
Federal Government is $4.7 billion (1.6 % of GDP) and a binding incremental public
sector debt target for both the provinces and the Federal Government of $5.4 billion.
There are also indicative targets for the consolidated provincial governments, including a
deficit of $2.2 billion in the year 2000, and for the aggregate level of the provincial
spending to be in balance by the year 2003. To support improvements in provincial
finances, the Federal Government would exercise its authority to limit external debt and
borrowing from the domestic banking system by the provinces. It is also implementing a
program of debt relief for about one-third of the smaller provinces willing to put in place
fiscal measures to control spending. The Bank has been asked to contribute to this effort
by and taking the lead is assisting the larger provinces in meeting the year 2003 deficit
target and by supporting second generation reforms in these provinces and other
provinces, focusing on health and education spending.
9.    The incipient economic recovery has been slower than expected. GDP growth in
the first quarter of 2000 was a mere 0.9 percent (year-on-year). The unemployment rate
deteriorated to 15.4 percent in May. The slower than expected growth led the federal
government to enact additional expenditure cuts during the second quarter of the year.
Through the second quarter 2000, the IMF targets were met; however, there was a spike
in the federal deficit during July. The slower than expected recovery has made the fiscal
situation more complicated for the province, as well.
THE PROVINCIAL CONTEXT
10.   Provincial governments have long played an important role in overall fiscal
performance and macroeconomic stability. Argentina's public sector is highly
decentralized, with provinces and municipalities accounting for about half of total public
spending. In particular, they have increasingly become the key public sector level for
providing public services in health, education and infrastructure, with responsibility for
over 90 percent of public spending in health and basic education (Table 1). Thus,
provincial reform becomes a central element in the efforts of Argentina to reduce its
macroeconomic vulnerability through improved fiscal performance and to increase
competitiveness and enhance equity through human resource development.
3



Table 1: Argentina: Allocation Of Responsibilities by Government Levels
Exclusively Central  Central and Provincial  Provincial and       Municipal
Govemment           Governments           Municipal           Governments
Governments
Defense             Social Security      Primary Education    Markets, cemeteries
Foreign Affaires    Social Assistance    Secondary Education   Solid Waste
Inter-provincial    Higher Education     Health Care          Local streets,
transport            Preventive Health   Water and Sewerage   drainage
Trade regulation    Economic             Regional and local
Mail and telex      development          roads
Justice and Security    Land Use
Housing             Fire Control
Passenger and cargo
terninals
Electricity and gas
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ energy__          _ _ _ _ _ _  _ __  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
11.   During the l980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy access to
borrowing and reliance on the Federal Government for transfers and bailouts all
contributed to persistent fiscal deficits. The situation improved in 1992, due to the
reforms that the Federal Government had initiated under the Convertibility Plan, and a
major national tax effort. However, this deteriorated again soon after due to excessive
spending by the provinces, given their inability to manage the rapid increase in the funds
transferred from the center. The financial crisis of 1995 aggravated the fiscal situation of
the provinces once again when the pool of total public revenues fell dramatically.
Provincial revenues dropped 5 percent in real terms, provincial expenditures failed to
adjust, and the provincial deficit reached a record high of $3.5 billion or 1.4 percent of
GDP, about half of the consolidated public sector deficit at that time. In 1995-96, out of
24 provinces, only four had balanced fiscal accounts. Most of the others faced important
liquidity shortages, increased borrowing, and accumulated arrears. Some provinces
resorted to printing their own money.
12.   Recognizing the importance of provincial finances to macro-stability in a federal
state, provincial reform has been a priority for the Federal Government since the early
1990s. During 1992 and 1993, it negotiated two agreements with the provinces to
promote structural economic changes. The provinces agreed to improve own-source
mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and eliminate distortionary taxes, privatize
public enterprises, including the provincial banks and utilities, deregulate the provincial
economy, and transfer the provincial pension funds to the national system. In exchange,
the Federal Government guaranteed a shared-revenue floor to each province, sheltering
them from any downfalls in revenue. It also provided a Transformation Fund, which
helped finance those reforns and provide technical assistance and advisory services.
While a number of provinces began implementing a program of reforms during 1993-94,
it was not until the financial crisis of 1995 that a large number of provinces began to
reform in earnest.
4



13.  With a more favorable macroeconomic environment beginning in late 1996, and the
reforms undertaken by many provinces, the overall fiscal situation of the provinces
improved remarkably. During the 1997-1998 period the deficit averaged only $0.5 billion
(about 30% of the consolidated deficit). However, with the current economic downturn,
the deficit level has increased again and is estimated to reach $3.8 billion in 1999, similar
to the 1995 level relative to GDP during the Tequila. Moreover, a number of provinces
that had borrowed excessively now have untenable debt service burdens aggravated by
the recent economic downturn: total debt service payments in 1999 are estimated to be
about $3.4 billion on the stock of provincial debt of $18 billion. Since these debts are
guaranteed with the individual provinces' income from federal revenue sharing and are
deducted automatically, the shortfall of revenues after debt service falls directly on the
payment of salaries and suppliers the provinces owe.
Table 2: Fiscal Performance at Federal and Provincial Levels
Est.
1995     1996       1997    1998       1999     2000
Millions ofpesos
Federal Govermment   -2545    -5889       -4341   -4170    -7348    -4700
Provincial   -3530    -1840       -1377   -2359    -4269    -2200
Administrations
Total   -6075    -7729       -5718   -6529   -11617    -6900
Shares of GDP
(%o)
Federal Government     -1.0     -2.2        -1.5    -1.4      -2.6      -1.6
Provincial    -1.4     -0.7        -0.5    -0.8      -1.7      -0.8
Administrations
Total     -2.4     -2.8        -2.0    -2.2      -4.3     -2.4
Excludes privatizat. revenues
Main Challenges in Provincial Reform
14.   The process of decentralization has increasingly forged a direct link between the
institutional capacity of sub-national governments and the human and infrastructure
development required to put the country on a sustained growth path. The Argentine
public sector over the last decade has shed unproductive activities and become more
focussed on core fimctions. With the federal level concentrating on social security,
general regulatory functions and national defense, much of the most complicated and
critical service delivery functions rest with the provinces. Social and economic progress
in Argentina will depend on the ability of the provinces to deliver health, education and
public safety functions effectively and within the context of sustained fiscal balance.
15.   Over the past ten years, the Governrnent's strategy progress from ensuring macro-
economic stability, installing a competitive policy framework for the productive sectors,
5



and providing basic security for the population to a strategy increasingly emphasizing
second generation reforns, community development and social services. In light of the
role of the provinces in these key areas, it is clear that the locus of activity had to shift
from the central level of administration to that of sub-national governments. Important
challenges remain, which the national and provincial administrations will need to deal
with:
*  Revenue-Sharing. A long-standing issue facing the Federal Government and the
Provinces has been the system of revenue sharing between the two levels of
governnent and among the provinces (the system of co-participation). At issue are
finding a better balance between: (i) the collection of taxes and responsibility for
spending; (ii) the incentives for spending and social equity for the poorer provinces;
(iii) the predictability of revenues and the need for fiscal adjustment; (iv) the level of
revenues collected and the incentives for economic efficiency; and (v) the
transparency in the allocation process and the need to provide emergency support. A
new agreement that is more equitable and efficient could help provide greater
incentives for provinces to collect their own revenues, spend more wisely, and to
relieve reoccurring political pressure on the Federal Government for bailouts.
However, finding such a balance, while ensuring the 100 percent acceptance by all
the parties needed to put the new system into place by law, has been hard (in contrast,
the Convertibility Law, which radically changed the economic landscape in
Argentina, only required a two-thirds majority vote). The political difficulties of
reaching a new agreement cannot be overstated, particularly with current fiscal
problerns that gives the Federal Government little with which to bargain. Indeed, the
Constitutional reform of 1994 had mandated that such an agreement be reached by
1996. On the other hand, as an increasing number of provinces see the wisdom of
bringing their own house in fiscal order, with the support of the Federal Government,
the Bank and the IDB, the constituents for a system that rewards greater efficiency
has grown markedly during the past decade. An overview of the system of revenue-
sharing and issues to be faced in the reforrm effort are provided in Annex G.
* Heterogeneity among Provinces. There is no uniform solution. The situation in the
24 provinces remains highly disparate. There are well perforning provinces, such as
La Pampa and San Luis, which are able to provide good quality public services to
their small and well off populations. The largest provinces, such as Santa Fe,
Mendoza, Cordoba and the Province of Buenos Aires, have undergone varying
degrees of adjustment in the early 1990's but still have difficulties in cyclical
downturns and need to upgrade the quality and coverage of their public services.
Since the largest concentration of the urban poor are in these provinces, it is critical
that they are able to meet the challenge of poverty reduction. Other resource rich
provinces, such as Chubut, Neuquen and Santa Cruz, have small populations, low
levels of poverty, and high revenues from natural resources but could benefit from
reforms to enhance quality and efficiency of the public services. At the other end of
the spectrum, there are a number of provinces, typically among the poorest, with high
social demands, poor institutional capacities, weak fiscal performnance and high debt.
The general characteristics of the provinces are presented in Annex H.
6



* Fiscal and Debt Problems. Chronic deficits and dangerous levels of indebtedness in
a few of provinces generate social and political unrest and contribute to the overall
fiscal problem in Argentina. Unfortunately, some of these provinces are among the
country's poorest and it is difficult to conceive that growth combined with fiscal
restraint will be sufficient to face their debt burdens. A part of the problem is the
short term nature of their debts and another part of the problem is the lack of
incentives by the banks and capital market to restrain new borrowings as provincial
debts enjoy full guarantee from the respective province's share of federal-shared
revenues. Achieving a sustainable fiscal position in some cases may require a
combination of debt restructuring and fiscal measures; in other cases, fiscal measures
alone may be sufficient. The approach should be case-by-case, and well grounded on
changing future incentives to prevent a reoccurrence. At the same time, there is still
much to be done to lower the overall fiscal deficit, particularly among the largest
provinces - such as Buenos Aires, Cordoba, and Santa Fe-which have the capacity
to meet their debt obligations and account for the bulk of the aggregate provincial
deficit in the past year. An overview of the debt situation in the provinces is
presented in Annex I.
* Regional Dimensions of Poverty. Poverty rates are substantially higher in provinces
in the north, particularly in the Northwest (46%) and Northeast (49%). Conversely
Buenos Aires (including the City and Province) and five Patagonian provinces in the
southem part of the country have lower poverty rates than the national average.
Argentina's economic performance has also has a varied impact depending upon the
region. In the early 1990's, overall poverty rates fell by 48 percent, but poverty in the
two poorest regions in the Northeast and the Northwest fell by about half of that. In
other words, the poorest provinces benefited less from overall growth than the richer
ones. However, when poverty rose during the 1994-98 period, the increases in
poverty were greater in those provinces that traditionally had the lowest poverty rates;
that is, the province of Buenos Aires, Cuyo (western provinces straddling the Andes)
and the Pampa region (the central plains). More generally, the provinces in the
Northeast and Northwest tend to have higher percentages of rural populations and
indigenous peoples: a survey of rural poverty in two of these provinces showed that
poverty rates among the rural populations are exceedingly high-some 70 percent.
* Differences in Social Performance. Social indicators show large variance among
regions, particularly in health. In Greater Buenos Areas and the larger provinces such
as Santa Fe and Cordoba, the health profile is broadly similar to that of the developed
world. Other areas of the country, particularly the poorer North, face a very different
health profile. For example, their infant mortality rates of 29 per 1000 are almost 70
percent higher than in greater Buenos Aires. Regional difference in education are less
stark, with most parts of the country performing poorly in retention rates, but the
quality of education, based on national testing, is particularly deficient in the North.
* Municipal Governments. The process of reform in Argentina has been cascading: it
occurred first that the federal level in the early, 1990's and then shifted to the
provincial level by the mid-1990's. It has yet to reach the municipalities that have the
potential to take on more responsibilities and to become more accountable. Issues in
7



fiscal management and revenue sharing also remain as a major challenge in
provincial-municipal relations. Although municipal governments in the aggregate
only account for less than 10 percent of public expenditures, the failure of most to
engage in meaningful reform undermines these efforts in a number of provinces, and
provides a weak basis for confronting growing urban problems and meeting the needs
of the poor for basic infrastructure, garbage and waste disposal, and other urban
services. A very large deficit of basic water and sanitation services exists. Some
municipalities are increasing providing primary health care, day care services,
community kitchens and the distribution of food supplements for the poor. Thus, there
is room for greater decentralization and consolidation of social services at the local
level. Municipalities are also at the interface with the private sector, concerned with
business licensing, among other things, which has an impact on private sector
development. As of now, there is no comprehensive strategy as to how to bring the
process to reform to this level of government.
Bank Support for Provincial Reform
16.   The Bank has been a major partner of the Government since the early 1990's in
supporting provincial reforms and institutional strengthening, through a series of ongoing
investment operations in health, education, agriculture, renewable energy, water supply,
roads and flood control and successful completed operations, including First Provincial
Development Project (Ln. 3280), First Provincial Reform Loan (PRL I) (Ln. 3836),
Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878), and Provincial Pension Reform Loan
(Ln. 4116)2, supported with important analytical work.3 As a result:
a  18 provincial banks and 22 other loss making major public enterprises were
privatized during the period 1995-99 and eight provinces transferred their provincial
pension systems to the reformed national system;
* provinces have initiated programs, and some are well advanced, in improving their
tax collection systems (cadasters, etc), fiscal management and budgeting systems;
* provinces have entered into fiscal agreements (pactosfiscales) with the Federal
Government to change distortionary provincial taxes and there is an active dialogue,
facilitated by the Bank and in collaboration with the Fund, on further reform of the
federal-provincial tax sharing regime and provincial tax systems (co-participation);
* most provinces are engaged in the national program to improve the quality of
secondary education; and support is being provided to improve the management of
provincial public hospitals; and
* each year the Bank conducts a review of provincial finances and uses financial
criteria to determine eligibility by the provinces to funds for capital investments; the
2 All of these operations were rated either satisfactory or highly satisfactory by OED.
Including Argentina Provincial Finances Study, Report No. 15487; Argentina: Reforming Provincial
Utilities, Report No. 15063; Cordoba-Public Sector Assessment, Report No. 15132-AR; Argentina:
Revitalizing the Tucuman Economy, Joint Bank/IFC Note, dated November 2, 1995.
8



only exceptions are for social sector and for flood protection (in the Northeast, subject
to recurring floods that cost the Argentine economy as much as lpercent of GDP in
losses).
* During the 1995-99 period, the twelve provinces that participated in the provincial
reform program (PRL I and PRL Il)4 have out performed other provinces in a variety
of critical areas. Local tax collections have increased 26 percent in the PRL provinces,
as compared to 19 percent for all provinces, and expenditure growth has been about 25
percent less than the overall average.
INDIVIDUAL PROVINCIAL REFORM PROGRAMS
Background
17.   In 1996, the Federal Government recognized the need for a second phase of
provincial reforms. After undertaking some of the basic structural reforms-including
privatizations-which provided a better balance in the role of the state and its fiscal
means and a more stable, immediate fiscal situation, it was clear that the provinces
needed to address issues of the quality and equity of core public services, especially in
health and education which had been decentralized to that level. The intended reforms
were to help the provinces improve the efficiency in public spending, reduce the size of
their central administrations, secure and maintain fiscal balance, reduce debt stock and
debt service to manageable proportions, and enhance responsiveness, quality and equity
in the provision of social services. Four provinces were selected for piloting this
approach -- Tucuman, Salta, San Juan and Rio Negro - and to participate in the Bank's
Second Provincial Reform Loans (PRL II), based on their previous reform performance
under the First Provincial Reform Loan (PRL I) and the difficulties that they continued to
face.
Reform Goals and Actions
18.   The provincial reform program for individual participating provinces seeks to
ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of remaining public social services within
fiscally sound policies. While the nature of the problems may vary across provinces and
the reform programs are tailor-made to each, the pillars of the reforn program are
common and include three basic components: public finance, education, and health.
19.   Reforms inpublicfinance are focused on achieving a sustainable fiscal situation
and are based mainly on strengthening ongoing reforms in the participating provinces,
particularly in increasing current savings to lower the debt burden. Local resource
mobilization is emphasized not only to increase revenues, but to enhance accountability
and to reduce, at least somewhat, the pro-cyclical impact of federal transfers derived
4Including the provinces of Entre Rios, Misiones, San Juan, Catamarca, Santiago del Estero, Tucuman,
Salta, Rio Negro, Chubut, Santa Cruz, Corrientes, and Chaco. This performance is all the more impressive
given that this group includes several provinces that "dropped out" of the reform process, and that the
provinces that this group is compared with includes several traditionally strong fiscal performers and
provinces undertaking their own adjustment effort outside the PRL umbrella.
9



mainly from consumption taxes. Civil service reform is promoted not only to enhance
the productivity of public employees, but to increase resources available for investment
by reducing the wage bill. Experience under the ongoing PRL II suggests that increased
local revenues, changes in the structure of expenditures, and lowering debt are all
required to provide for greater flexibility when the provincial governments need to adjust
in the face of economic downturns, such as the Tequila crisis and more recently the
external shocks from Asia, Russia and Brazil. The basic elements of the program
include:
*  improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on
own-source revenues and increased accountability;
*  civil service reform  including reduction of the wage bill and redundant
personnel; improved training and compensation; control to lower absenteeism
and overpayments; and,
*  rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government
spending, with emphasis on privatization and outsourcing to improve reliability
and quality of public services and lower the fiscal burden.
20.   On the social sector side, the emphasis is to increase the efficiency and quality of
the education and health sectors, focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects,
while promoting increased involvement by the private sector. The large majority of
provinces appear to devote sufficient resources to public health and education, most at
levels higher than OECD countries relative to per capita incomes; however, the efficiency
and quality of this spending are poor. The basic strategy is to protect current levels of
spending, while at the same time changing the structure of expenditures to increase
investment and providing incentives for improvements in efficiency, quality and equity.
In some provinces, savings from improvements may not be sufficient and increased
spending would be required.
21.   In education, despite attractive returns to higher education, dropout rates from
secondary school among the poor are high. In Argentina only 24 percent of students in
the lowest quintile complete secondary school, compared to 76 percent for the upper
quintile. Proposed education reforms seeks to ensure the extension of obligatory
education (from six to nine years) as mandated the National Education Law, while
improving efficiency and quality. Given the low productivity in most provinces, with
student/teacher ratios in some cases double those of comparators, and high levels of
teacher absenteeism (sometimes four times as high as comparators), much of this can
potentially be financed within the current budget, with some short-term increases to
cover investment in classrooms, materials and teacher training. In addition, most
provinces also need to undergo important reforms to provide incentives to improve
quality, including changing seniority-based teacher remuneration systems into merit-
based systems, and decentralizing greater control to the school level. Priority actions
include:
*  Increasing low student/teacher ratios and the participation of staff actively
teaching as a share of total staff;
*  Reducing disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel;
*  Improving the incentives for quality improvement;
10



*  Increasing the participation of the private sector; and,
*  Reducing administrative costs.
22.   In health, despite the availability of health care, generally through public
hospitals, care is of poorer quality for poorer people. For example, 25 percent of women
in the lowest income levels are delivered by non-doctors, while none at the upper level;
over 30 percent of women in the lowest quintile have no post delivery follow-up,
compared to only 2 percent of those in the upper quintile; 74 percent from lowest have to
wait more than 24 hours for a consultation, as compared to only 45 percent of those in the
upper quintile. Proposed health reforrns seek to increase overall investment largely
within the current budget envelope and to induce improvements in efficiency, quality and
equity by separating the supply of services from the financing, promoting cost-recovery
for care provided by public hospital to insured patients, promoting hospital accreditation
and quality assurance systems, and providing the indigent population with health
insurance. A fundamental element of this strategy, self-administered public hospitals,
was pioneered in Argentina under the ongoing Provincial Health Development Project
(PRESSAL, Ln. 393 1-AR). On the financing side, the Bank supported reforms in the
national health insurance system (Health Insurance Reform Loan Ln. 4002/3AR and
Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project Ln 4004-AR) to enhance efficiency and
promote competition. The PRL program combines these two reforn elements in
participating provinces and promotes the incorporation of the uninsured poor into the
system to help ensure equity in access to services. The main actions being undertaken
cover reforms in the area of personal health care delivery, public health finance and
public health administration and include:
*  Extending the Provincial Health Insurance to the uninsured poor;
*  Restructuring the Provincial Health Insurance carrier (Obra Social Provincial);
*  Reducing staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures;
*  Reallocating resources from personal health care to essential public health
services, including health promotion, reproductive health and injury control;
*  Promoting public hospital autonomy;
*  Improving the integration between primary and secondary health care; and
*  Accreditation of hospitals and ambulatory services and introduction of quality
assurance systems in public hospitals.
Progress in Provincial Reform
23.   Of the four pilot provinces for PRL II, the loans for Salta and- Tucuman have been
complete and been evaluated using the new intensive learning approach, including
participatory workshops and review by specialists from outside the region. Both have
been evaluated by OED as satisfactory.5 The ICRs note that overall, fiscal performnance
by the four provinces under this program has been exceptional when compared to other
provinces. In particular, during the 1996-98 period they averaged an increase in current
savings of 93 percent, compared to a nine percent decline in current savings by the other
S Reports Nos. 20699 and 20698, both dated June 30, 2000.
11



provinces; and their debt stock increased on average only two percent, as compared to
almost 19 percent in other provinces. With the deterioration in the overall economy
during 1998-99, and national and provincial elections in 1999, the performance has been
more mixed, but for the 1996-99 period as a whole, PRLII provinces continued to
outperform other provinces, with average increases in own resource mobilization of 17
percent, compared to 12 percent for all provinces, and in maintaining spending increases
at under 10 percent, as compared to a 17 percent increase for all provinces during the
period. However, both San Juan and Rio Negro encountered difficulties in meeting fiscal
targets and the final of three tranches were cancelled in both cases. ICRs are now
underway.
24.   Emerging lessons from the ongoing experience suggests that the loan design for a
direct relation between the Bank and the participating province is important in enabling
the Bank to bring to bear its international experience and in providing a mediating
influence between the federal and provincial stakeholders. Project design also puts local
governors at the forefront of implementation and dialogue has helped to improve
performance under other investment operations in which the provinces participate. In
addition, the provincial approach to promoting needed sector reforms in health and
education appears to be a fundamental complement to the Bank's efforts in these areas at
the national level. Drawing on the ongoing ICR effort and supervision, important lessons
from this experience include:
- Fiscal adjustment and social sector reforms: There can be tensions in meeting these
two objectives, particularly where fiscal adjustments are not taken upfront and need to be
undertaken in the middle of the reform process. Although the programs provided for
protecting overall spending in health and education, politically, sector reforms often
become associated with fiscal adjustment resulting in unwarranted resistance. Moreover,
urgent needs to downsize staffing may result in losing better qualified staff before
adequate human resource management systems for the social sectors can be put into place
to provide incentives for better performance. At the same time, since the bulk of public
spending is in these sectors, their reform is crucial in sustaining fiscal equilibrium. The
lesson is that sequencing is important and that the PJ?LII approach is more successful and
sustainable for provinces that have already achieved a level of control in their fiscal and
debt situations.
- Timing: The loans were designed to fully disburse within 12-18 months of
effectiveness; however, the reform effort took longer than anticipated to put into place
and even longer to begin showing results. The lesson is that engagement by the Bank
should be at least for two years. This is all the more crucial because conditionality went
beyond merely the enacting of new measures, but required that new systems be
effectively up and running. This makes it even more important to consider political
cycles. All the provinces in the program held elections during the last year of
implementation, and in two cases there was a change in governing political parties.
While the new administrations have slowly begun to take ownership of many of the
reforms, after first rejecting them outright, there was a loss in the reform momentum and
questions of sustainability persist. The lesson is that reforms have a better chance of
being sustainable if they are fully in place prior to any change in administration.
12



- Ownership: While all the governors were committed to the reforms, in one of the
provinces the executive branch did not enjoy the support of the legislative branch. As a
result, the reform effort was implemented using executive decrees that could easily be
rescinded by a new administration. The lesson is that ownership needs to be as broad
based as possible and that commitment to the reform program requires the support of the
legislative branch, particularly if it is controlled by an opposition political party. At the
sector level, those with a reform champion with vision appeared to perform better during
implementation, and the overall programs benefited when the program coordinator had a
direct link to the governor and political weight vis-a-vis the cabinet.
- Institution Building/Participation: The reforms introduced institutional arrangements
that affect incentives governing policymaking and service delivery. While they
combined mechanisms of voice, competition and hierarchy into service delivery reforms,
in some cases there were no clear signals within the public administration to ensure
allegiance to these reforms. The lesson is that complementary accountability and
transparency mechanisms would help to ensure improved implementation and greater
sustainability. The legitimacy of the reforrns were enhanced in those cases were a
participatory process was followed involving stakeholders such as teachers, medical staff,
and parents and where an effort was made to inform the general public on the nature of
the reforms. This was the case, for exarnple, with the implementation of the new subsidy
formula to private schools in Salta. The participatory approach facilitated the resolution
of the constraints that appeared during its implementation and provided options to resolve
the potential conflicts. Also, this approach guaranteed the legitimacy of the new formula.
The lesson is that project preparation should be informed by a social assessment and that
participatory mechanisms be provided during implementation.
- Coordination with other operations: Rather that developing separate TA operations
for each province, the program relied on the availability of technical assistance through a
number of ongoing sector investment operations for the provinces through the Federal
Government. While this approach helped in developing a stronger link between
provincial reforms and the federal ministries, at times delays in providing technical
assistance lead to problems in maintaining the momentum of the reforms. However, at
the federal level, experience with the reform efforts of the PRLII provinces enhanced
federal efforts to support reformns in other provinces and helped to make clearer how the
federal ministries themselves need to modernize to fulfil their new role in a decentralized
environment. The lesson is that careful planning beforehand is required to ensure that
TA is available when needed, but that separate TA operations would not contribute to the
long-term needs of improving federal-provincial relations.
25.   In sunmmary, the provincial reform approach piloted under PRL II is emerging as a
powerful vehicle for promoting needed sector reforms in health and education as well as
fiscal sustainability, and appears to be a fundamental complement to the Bank's efforts in
these areas at the national level and sector level investment programs. Individual
provincial reforn programs, together with continuing support for reform in revenue-
sharing, have been identified in the FYO 1 -04 CAS as the main pillars for the Bank's
continued support for provincial reform in Argentina, with a renewal of the series of
provincial reform loans which were interrupted by the external shock in 1998-99.
13



Government Strategy and Bank Assistance
26.   The new administration is giving top priority to provincial reform and, as noted
above, has included specific benchmarks for this effort under its new agreement with the
Fund. Its two-track strategy would seek to continue the dialogue and improving the
environment for refonning the current system of co-participation, while further
improving the incentives of the current system and supporting the reform efforts of
individual provinces. To support improvements in provincial finances, the Federal
Government would exercise its authority to limit external debt and borrowing from the
domestic banking system by the provinces. This would help to enhance the hard budget
constraints and builds on earlier efforts to enhance the transparency of the system and to
reduce discretionary transfers. It is also implementing a program of debt relief for about
one-third of the smaller provinces willing to put in place fiscal measures to control
spending. Specifically, the new administration reached agreement with the provinces as
follows:
* Primary Distribution of Revenue -Sharing in 2000-01. In order to support efforts to
close the fiscal deficit of the Federal Government, instead of transferring a share of
actual federal taxes (the so-called automatic transfers), a fixed amount of $16.2 billion
would be shared (about equal to the average of 1998-99). An additional $1-1.5 billion
in discretionary transfers would be subject to possible cuts.
*  New Revenue-Sharing Law. Agreement to submit reform legislation in 2000.
* Fiscal Solvency. Commitment for provinces to enact laws similar to the new Federal
law establishing a timetable to achieve a zero deficit by 2003.
* Debt Restructuring. A commitment by the Federal Government to assist smaller
provinces in improving the terms of their debt stock. (See Annex I).
*  Provincial Pension Systems. Agreement of the Federal Government to help finance
transitional deficits of reformed provincial systems.
* Transparency. Commitment to improve presentation and dissemination of provincial
fiscal accounts.
* Tax Administration. Agreement to move toward greater collaboration, including a
common taxpayer ID and data sharing.
* Federal Fiscal Authority. Agreement to create organization to serve as point for the
debate over the new revenue sharing law, fiscal coordination, monitoring, and tax
harmonization.
27.   In order to help achieve an overall fiscal balance in the provinces by the year
2003, the Government has asked the Bank in the FY01 -04 CAS to step up its efforts
under the model piloted by the PRLllprovinces. The first province under this new phase
would be Catamarca, which would incorporate the lessons from the pilot provinces of
PRLII and also benefit from participation in the Governnent's debt relief program.
14



While a relatively small province, Catamarca is seen as providing a powerful
demonstration effect for other provinces, given its historically poor performance and its
most recent reform efforts (see below). The Government has also requested that the
Bank take the lead in providing reformn support to the country's larger provinces,
including Buenos Aires, Cordoba, and Santa Fe, followed by several intermediate
provinces. Through these efforts, we would be directly supporting fiscal and social
sector reform efforts in provinces representing about 60 percent of Argentina's poor (as
measures by NBI).
28.   The Government's strategy to step up provincial reform is designed to provide a
more favorable environment and the political support necessary for reforming the system
of revenue sharing. This is a fundamental policy issue which is exceedingly complex and
difficult to resolve. As noted above, the Government has a two year window for lasting
changes to the system and already has been able to reach an understanding on some
principles, most notably the need to smooth these transfers overtime, and to have a more
independent body to monitor the system. Through advisory services and ESW, the Bank
has been providing the analytical bases for this effort.6 Under the SSAL, the Government
prepared a detailed technical proposal, initiated a round of public debate on the subject,
and began to work towards a consensus with the provinces. The high case scenario for
the proposed Argentina CAS FY01 -04 would also provide for Bank support to assist in
transitional measures in other provinces, if and when the revenue sharing system is
reformed.
THE REFORMING PROVINCE OF CATAMARCA
BACKGROUND AND RECENT REFORM EFFORTS
29.   Catamarca is a small, poor province of the Argentine Northwest. It belongs to the
part of Argentina with the worst social and economic indicators. Its per capita income
was approximately $4,500 in 1997, about half the national average, and 17th out of 24
provinces. Catamarca also ranks poorly as regards social indicators. Almost one-fourth
of the population cannot meet their basic needs, according to the Basic Unsatisfied Needs
(NBI) measure used in Argentina, as compared to a national rate of 16.5 percent. 7 The
child mortality rate in 1995 was 26.1 per 1000 births, well above the national average of
22 per 1000, with high rates of birth and teenage pregnancies, as well as a high prenatal
mortality. In education, Catamarca has a school attendance level that is well below the
national average. The net school attendance rate for primary education is only 63
percent, which points to high repeater and absenteeism rates. Secondary education
situation is even worse at only 51 percent. Moreover, based on national evaluations, the
quality of education in Catamarca is considered the worst in the country. While 71
percent of the population benefits from access to piped water systems (as compared to 76
percent nationwide, low for a country at Argentina's level of income), only 32 percent are
connected to sewage systems. Finally, the Province also compares unfavorably in other
6 Including the recent report, Argentina: Provincial Tax and Revenue-Sharing Reform, green cover Report
No. 19395-AR, dated June 30, 1999.
7The NBI measures, inter alia, access to housing, potable water and social services.
15



infrastructure services. For example, it has one of the country's lowest road densities
(0.05 km/sq. km compared to the national average of 0. 1).
30.   During much of the past twenty years, the Province's fiscal performance has been
dismal, with poor management and controls, and excessive current expenditures
stemming from the massive incorporation of workers into the public sector. This has
resulted in high levels of indebtedness. Poor fiscal performance is compounded by
inefficiencies in spending, which lower the effectiveness and quality of public services.
Thus, in contrast to its poor health indicators, the Province's spending on public health is
at par with the national average (about $300 per capita); and, in contrast to poor
educational outcomes, Catamarca has one of the country's highest unit costs (expenses
per pupil), which is only partially explained by the need to service a dispersed population.
Despite sufficient production capacity, inefficiencies in the public water company results
in rationing at times and poor quality services. Poor collection and high cost leave little
for needed expansion and investments in water supply and sewerage, and annual transfers
from the provincial treasury of about $10 million are needed just to cover the operational
deficit. Despite low road density, Catamarca devotes about 6 percent of its budget to the
sector, one of the highest levels among provinces. Still, spending on roads is inefficient
and compromises the Province's ability to maintain and improve the road network.
Finally, the provincial bank, which in the past served to help finance the fiscal deficit,
requires periodic recapitalization to cover large losses, with $56 million in support from
the provincial treasury since 1992.
31.   Beginning with a federal intervention in the early 1990s,8 the Province has
undertaken a series of reforrns to improve its public sector performance, with the support
of the First Provincial Reform Loan and The First and Second Provincial Development
Projects (PDP I and I1), financed by the Bank. Among the main achievements to date
has been the implementation of a modem system for financial management, patterned on
the national system, and the privatization of the energy distribution company, tourist and
casino facilities, and the bus terminal. The implementation of voluntary retirement
programs for personnel, as well as privatizations made it possible to reduce staff by 15
percent. On the revenue side, institutional strengthening of the provincial tax agency
(DGR) helped to increase local tax collections by 78 percent between 1995 and 1998. As
a part of this process, the provincial cadastre was updated, making it possible to both
increase the number of real estate taxpayers and improve the equity of tax values.
Finally, the provincial pension was transferred to the national government wvith the
support of the Bank, relieving a fiscal burden and contributing to national
macroeconomic reforms. As a result, the deficit in current spending was improved from
19 percent of current revenues in 1995, to a positive balance of 2 percent by 1998, and
personnel costs relative to current revenues declined from 83 percent- in 1995 to 53
percent in 1998. The performance in relieving the debt burden was less successful,
although the debt stock relative to current revenues declined from 83 percent in 1995 to
78 percent in 1998.
s The intervention was prompted by civil disarray resulting from a combination of poor fiscal management
and political turmoil stemming from a high profile criminal investigation.
16



32.   Reforms in education were also begun with both the implementation of the federal
educational reform at EGB9 and Polimodall levels and reforms to improve efficiency
and quality. However, together with increasing demographic growth, extending
compulsory education from 7 to 10 years, urgently requires improvements in the use of
sector resources. In the past few years, the Ministry of Education has taken several other
initiatives to carry out educational reform including the restructuring of the teacher
training institutes to reduce their number from 25 to 16 and freezing enrollment by
student teacher for pre-school, EGB I and EGB II, for which the needs are already met.
Progress has also been made in the development of a number of administrative reforms
within the framework of the Bank-financed First Secondary Education Project
(PRODYMES I, Ln. 3794-AR).
33.   The health sector has benefited from substantial investment in recent years
leading to improvements in service. However, the sustainability of these investments and
increasing their effectiveness requires a restructuring of the system to both improve the
public network's focus on the uninsured poor and redirect the network towards primary
care and outpatient medical care. Implementation of cost recovery from insured patients
would improve fiscal performance and help redirect public expenditures to the poor. In
addition, the opportunity exists to strengthen health promotion and the prevention of
illnesses.
34.   Finally, fiscal improvements begun in 1995 were not sustained during the first
half of 1999, with a deterioration in the accounts due to a combination of excessive
election year spending and the overall downturn in the economy resulting in lower than
expected federal transfers. The current deficit has reemerged at 2 percent of current
revenues. While not a poor performance given the economic downturn, the level of debt,
including floating debt, increased to 91 percent of current revenues, underlining the
fragile status that the province still finds itself in fiscally, and the needed for deeper
structural reforms to provide it with the needed flexibility to increase investment and
adjust to downturns.
THE REFORM PROGRAM OF THE PROVINCE OF CATAMARCA
35.   Building on these earlier efforts, the Province has asked for Bank support for a
strategy oriented both at deepening and extending the reform process for the public
sector, achieving a sound provincial government structure that contributes to
guaranteeing equal opportunities to its inhabitants, improving the standard of living and
achieving its longed-for goals of economic and social development. The program for the
2000-2003 period has four main components: Public Finance and Administration,
Education, Health and Private Sector Development.
9 Educaci6n General Basica 1,11, I111: Basic General Education provided to children ages 6 to 14.
' Polimodal consists of three years of education (ages 15 to 17), following EGB. It offers five different
choices: Humanities-Social Sciences, Administration and Management, Art, Industry and Agriculture,
Environment and Health.
17



Public Finance and Administration
36.   The Provincial Government is committed to reaching a sustainable fiscal
situation. Specific aims are to: (a) achieve an annual current surplus such that debt
servicing can be met beginning in 2001; (b) reduce the overall cost of staff to 56 percent
as a maximum of current net resources; and, (c) ensure a fiscal surplus such that it makes
it possible to begin reducing debt stock and achieve a level of less than 100 percent of
current revenues by 2002. In late 1999, the new administration initiated a fiscal
adjustment program aimed at reducing current expenditures, including an overall cut in
public sector salaries. Additional structural improvements, including the size of the
public sector would be implemented gradually over the course of the program, and would
benefit from administrative reforms designed to reward good performance and punish
poor performance, so as to avoid losing better qualified personnel. In order to facilitate
its program of fiscal adjustment, the Province is participating in the Federal
Government's new debt relief program.
37.   The Federal debt program consists of $161 million to be lent to the Province at
around 12 percent with a ten-year repayment period, with future revenue-sharing
transfers serving as a guarantee. This would allow the Province to meet its debt
obligations for the year 2000, with about $18 million representing the capitalization of
about half of the Province's interest payments for that year. The remaining $143 million
would be used to cover floating debt and to restructure about one-third of the debt stock,
in particular an important share of the $180 million in short term loans from local
commercial banks In return, the Province would need to meet quarterly fiscal
performance targets through a series of spending and tax collection measures and has
pledged to enact a law of Fiscal Responsibility which, inter alia, would mandate an
overall fiscal equilibrium by the year 2003. The Province would also be subject to limits
imposed by the Federal Government for foreign and domestic borrowing.
38.   The incremental impact of the program supported by the Bank would enable the
Province to reach fiscal equilibrium 12 to 18 months earlier than agreed under the Federal
program, and thereby accelerate the process of bringing down the stock of debt and
reducing the vulnerability of the fiscal accounts to external shocks. The Bank program
would also help to sustain these fiscal achievements by improving the efficiency of
spending. Finally, under the Bank program these fiscal objectives are to be achieved
while protecting and enhancing spending for vital social services in health and education,
and mitigating the social costs of the needed fiscal adjustment. The expected
performance of the main fiscal variables under the program are graphed below in Table 3.
Attainment of the fiscal targets would be facilitated by a series of activities, including
increasing transparency and accountability, through continued improvements in public
sector management and improvements in local tax collection.
18



Table 3: CATAMARCA: Key Indicators
120%
60%
40%     -               --      -............ ... . .. --....... ----
60% -                     ..     .  .     ....
40%          .
1 3721900                           2001     2002     2;23
-20%
+  PersonneVl Current Revenues        -     Current Balance*/Current Revenues
-*- Overall Balance/ Current Revenues    -x-- Debt Stock/ Current Revenues
*Current Balance excludes transfers tied to capital expenditures. These transfers finance the lion's share of
capital expenditures. Hence, the small difference between current balance and overall balance
39.    The lack of timely information on fiscal accounts still hampers management and
also facilitates irresponsible spending. The Province, which has gone far in modernizing
its financial management, is committed to making such information readily available to
the legislature and the public. As noted, Catamarca has also greatly expanded local
revenue mobilization but needs to continue modernizing its collection system. In
addition, transaction costs would be reduced for small and medium size businesses. The
following actions build upon ongoing assistance from the Second Provincial
Development Project, coordinated by the National Ministry of Interior:
* Annual audits of the fiscal accounts to be made publicly available, and in-time
accounts to be made available on-line.
* Tax administration program, focusing on simplification of gross income for
small contributors and administrative procedures for the settlement of
provincial taxes, and increasing revenues from the property tax.
* Human Resource Administration reform to ensure that services are
efficiently provided. The proposed actions will provide the basis for reducing
the size of the public sector and provide greater incentives to improve
productivity. Implementation, including the financing of studies and technical
assistance, would be supported through the Second Provincial Development
Project. Elements include a training program for staff, a salary scale
incorporating merit-based pay, and the piloting of performance contracting in
selected units and possible expansion depending upon the results.
19



40.    Privatization and Outsourcing to improve services and reduce fiscal stress. The
process of redefining the role of the government would continue with the privatization of
the provincial bank and the water company. The fiscal benefits and performance
improvements of privatization have been well established in Argentina under previous
Bank operations, and support for implementation is readily available. Outsourcing of
services offers the potential of improving public sector performance and rationalizing the
labor force.
* The privatization of the bank would benefit from the technical and financial
assistance of the Fondo Fiduciario (Fiduciary Fund) created with the support of
the recently completed Provincial Bank Privatization Loan. The procedures
used successfully under that operation would be employed.1I The Fondo is
expected to provide financing of up to $30 million to facilitate the privatization.
After failing to attract investors by offering 51 percent of the bank, the Province
has recently approved legislation to increase the offer to 100 percent. If not
successful, the bank would be liquidated.
*   The privatization of the water company is being supported by the federal water
agency. EATHOSA, based on experience gained through a series of water supply
concessioning. The private concessioning of services in the Valle Central,
which accounts for about 50 percent of the provincial population, has been
tendered. Once the concession is successfully awarded, start-up investments to
be carried out by the future concessionaire could be financed through the Water
Sector Reform Project (Ln. 4484-AR). With the concession, the Province
expects to increase metering from the current 16 percent to 86 percent,
sewerage coverage from 52 percent to 76 percent, and reduce the unaccounted
for water level from 41 percent to 15 percent in the next ten years. The
program will also incorporate mechanisms for facilitating the connection of
poorer households.  A  multi-sector regulatory agency, ENRE, would be
responsible for regulatory functions. The performance of the existing unit for
electricity indicates that ENRE's independence is fairly well established. As
well as improving service and coverage, concessioning of the water company
is expected to result in annual savings of $7-10 million for the treasury.
*   The Province is in the process of identifying a variety of services now
performed in-house for possible outsourcing, including road maintenance noted
below, which would be implemented under the program.
41.    Rationalizing Public Investment would focus on road expenditures under a
program of strengthening highway planning and rationalization of expenditures;
improving highway efficiency, productivity, and results; and strengthening environmental
assessment and participatory processes. The program builds on extensive Bank
"In order to facilitate the fiscal and political costs of privatization, the strategy has been to first place
attractive assets in the privatized entity and then match those with liabilities. The remaining assets and
liabilities are then transferred into a residual entity. Since the process of residual asset recovery is normally
neither quick enough nor sufficient to cover residual liabilities, the Fondo Fiduciario provides a loan to help
the provinces convert their immediate residual obligations into longer terms debt. This process has been
successfully used in over 16 recent privatizations (See Report No. 19467).
20



experience and implementation would be supported by the Provincial Roads Project (Ln.
4093-AR). To achieve these objectives, specific agreed actions would include:
*  Update the 1995 road network condition and traffic surveys and define a
rational and balanced multi-year (2000-2004) road expenditure program using
the HDM model, followed by the implementation of the agreed program;
* Modernizing the Provincial Road Agency (DPV) and improving its productivity
by: the creation of a planning department, and a department for technical and
operational assistance to municipalities and execution of delegated maintenance
of national roads; the evaluation of the feasibility of separating the central
workshop as a commercially-managed entity, of new policies regarding
equipment leasing and renting and the re-deployment and reconversion of labor
through the creation of micro-enterprises for routine maintenance operations
(using the recent successful experience in Uruguay as a model). Activities to
be undertaken would include the use of specialized work crews for road safety
and environmental mitigation, accompanied by a new policy for improving
private sector participation in the management and execution of maintenance
programs through pilot CREMA12 and annual maintenance contracts.
  Adopt the Environmental Manual (developed under the Provincial Roads
Project), including the incorporation of public hearing practices in the
assessment process and a training program to strengthen DPV capacity to
screen projects, perform and supervise enviromnental impact studies, and
monitor compliance by contractors. A similar program has already been
successfully implemented in the Province for the mining sector with the support
of the Mining Development TA Project (Ln. 3927-AR).
42.   Municipal Governments. Transfers to the 34 municipal governments in
Catamarca account for more than 15 percent of the provincial budget, as compared to an
average of 1 1 percent in other provinces. Municipalities suffer from limited local
capacity in managing expenditures and collecting revenues. With overstaffing, few funds
are available for other than salaries, which account for 85 percent of spending. Problems
in generating own resources are due in part to unwillingness to confront taxpayers, as
well as technical incapacity to levy taxes, bill clients, collect revenues and monitor
payments. Expenditure management also suffers from technical deficiencies and a
tradition of providing public employment to meet social objectives. In order to begin
providing the technical bases for improvements at the municipal level, the Province
would initiate a program to provide technical assistance, including hardware/software and
training, in implementing financial and tax administrative reforms. Additionally, there
are plans to include municipal employees in the training program and initiate a local
economic development program through the Provincial Ministry of Production.
12 An innovative programn for increasing private sector participation in road maintenance developed under
the Bank-financed National Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.
21



Education
43.   Catamarca's education program for the coming years involves a series of actions
to generate improvements in efficiency, which will make it possible to cover expanding
enrollment and to produce significant improvements in quality. The achieved savings
will be allocated to financing expenditures on educational materials, books, equipment,
infrastructure and compensatory measures to encourage poor children to stay in school.
In addition, the administrative and organizational reforms will strengthen the capacity to
design and manage as well as implement and monitor educational policies and strategies.
Selected reforms include actions to allow for class consolidation, control of absenteeism,
reduction of overhead costs, reconversion of public teacher training institutions; and new
subsidies systems for the private schools. Benchmarks and indicators include: reduction
of non-essential personnel; improved student/teacher ratios; and a shift of personnel
expenditures towards investment and other non-personnel outlays. The program builds
upon extensive experience of the Bank and the IDB, and implementation would be
supported through various operations being coordinated by the National Ministry of
Education.
44.   Restructuring the Budget to increase investment. The Province is committed to
maintaining adequate levels of financing for education, while at the same time improving
the structure of spending to emphasize greater investment and improve the quality of
public education. The current budget, equivalent to about 10% of provincial gross
product (or about double the relative level in OECD countries), should be adequate for a
measured implementation of the federal reform to increased obligatory schooling by three
years, if there is a concerted effort to reduce the large inefficiencies in spending.
Reforms in the administration of human resources and institutional reform will result in
savings which will make it possible to reallocate the budget to non-salary expenses. The
Province, which currently spends almost its entire education budget (99 percent) on
personnel salaries and benefits (including transfers to the private sector, represent 7.5
percent of the budget), would reduce this share to free up funds for investment.
45.   Improving Efficiency and Quality in one of the nation's highest cost, lowest
quality school systems, plagued by low school attendance on the part of both students and
teachers. Efficiency gains would be required to allow for implementation of the national
education reform within budget constraints. Particular emphasis would be given to
upgrading, poorly prepared teachers now with little incentive for improvement. A change
in the Teacher Statutes, which governs their work rules, is a fundamental step toward
improvements in the longer term. Catamarca would be a pioneer in this area, drawing
upon earlier analysis done by the Bank at the national level. Specific actions would
include:
* Implementation of quality improvement policies for students focusing on: (i)
retention strategies; and (ii) integration and assistance to low performance
groups and rernedial courses. Implementation of a provincial system for quality
evaluation, and implementation of EGB III and Polimodal linked to savings
within the budget envelope.
22



*  A program to reform of the Teacher Statutes to include: (i) a salary scheme
with incentives for quality, results and attendance; (ii) selection of directors and
teachers at school unit level through a competitive system; (iii) reformulation of
the area bonus into one based on educational risk; (iv) new supervisory
functions; (v) requirements of a teaching degree; and (vi) a new leave policy.
*  Tightening of teacher leave regulations and the outsourced system for medical
checks on sick leave will be improved. This is expected to reduce the use of
substitute teachers from 25 percent of the total to 10-15 percent.
* Implementation of the administration reform will be consolidated through: (i) a
system for the administration of human resources (including: a single teacher
file, a new salary payment operation, computerized administrative processes);
(ii) design of new objectives for the staff belonging to the central administration
and the supervisory system; (iii) redrafting staffing requirements for EGB and
Polimodal, which will produce savings that will be reassigned to financing the
necessary investment expenditures in order to consolidate EGB III and
Polimodal implementation. These activities would allow an improvement from
the current student/teacher ratio of 14:1 to 20:1 at EGB land II levels.
46.   Piloting Decentralized Management at the School Level to enhance
accountability. This approach is now being tested in several of the provinces
participating in PRL II and would draw from their experiences in implementation.
Catamarca would also experiment with a new scheme for school autonomy.
*  The new decentralized management model at school level would include:
decentralization of resource administration for maintenance and other operating
expenses; local school responsibility in teacher selection; a pilot program for
improving quality with remedial courses for students with difficulties; a
program of compensatory policies in areas of educational risk; an increase in
the net number of hours of teaching and supervision based on indicators for
management by results.
*  Administrative decentralization would be promoted via two funding schemes:
(i) one in which the funds would be allocated on the basis of criteria that
promote compensation for disadvantaged schools and (ii) another in which
funds freed by the reform of the leave system and absenteeism control would be
allocated to schools that meet targets for teacher attendance. Advisory
Councils have been created to administer the funds.
*  A pilot test in several schools for a new scheme of school autonomy with a
decentralized payment scheme. This would include: (i) local school
participation in teacher appointment; and (ii) decentralization at school level for
the payment of teacher salaries and all other recurrent expenditures.
47.   Improving the Allocation of Resources to the Private Sector to enhance
efficiency, equity and quality. About 6.5 percent of the education budget is transferred to
23



private schools as subsidies. The allocation of these funds, however, is largely based on
historical agreements and normally on the number of teachers employed. As such they
provide little incentive for improvements. A new system for allocating the subsidies
would be based on objective criteria, including the number of students, their
socioeconomic background, and the quality of schools. This is expected to enhance
incentives for efficiency, equity and quality, as well as increased private sector
participation.
48.   Conversion of the Teacher Training System to both improve the efficiency of
sector spending and to enhance teacher quality. The Province would seek to enhance the
benefits of current spending on teacher training and reorient the curriculum to
complement the Federal Education Reform. The ongoing effort to consolidate the
conversion of teacher training institutes would continue with mergers, freezing vacancies
for EGB I and II, and implementing an accreditation system. A conversion plan has been
prepared which includes: (i) merger plans; (ii) adjusting demand of professors with
graduates; (iii) freezing vacancies for EGB I and II; and (iv) contents of the new syllabi.
Of the 26 institutes operating in 1995, the Province has reduced the number to 16 public
teacher-training institutes now in operation, and would reduce the number to twelve
under the program.
Health
49.   The Province's strategy is oriented towards: ensuring the coverage of the
population, particularly for the more vulnerable social sectors, improving the
population's choices and ensuring the fiscal feasibility. As indicated above,
implementation would draw on ongoing experiences in PRL II provinces, with support
from the National Ministry of Health. Actions would include:
50.   Restructuring Health Care Financing to support better targeting of public
personal health services to the uninsured poor, to improve the efficiency and
sustainability of the provincial health insurance carrier, and to ensure adequate resources
to provide essential public health services to the entire population. A public health
expenditure review carried out as part of project preparation showed that current public
health spending levels in Catamarca are adequate to finance both a personal health care
benefits package for all the uninsured poor and to finance programs in public health
services in promotion and prevention for the entire population. However, some changes
are needed within the current budget envelope. First, preventive health programs are
seriously under-funded at less than 4 percent of total expenditures. The program would
support increasing this level to 8 percent by 2002, with emphasis on the main causes of
loss in years of life, including reproductive health and accident prevention and injury
control. Secondly, in order to increase funding devoted to investment and maintenance,
budget resources devoted to staff expenditures would be brought down to 80 percent
under the program from a current level of almost 90 percent.
51.   Restructuring the Public Health Care Delivery. The program of enhancing the
efficiency and quality of public health services would include the following elements:
24



*  The Province would sanction a legal framework for cost recovery for the services
granted to clients covered by health insurance, as a way of reducing implicit public
subsidies to entities responsible for the coverage of insured people;
*  The development of a rationalization and consolidation plan for the health
services in the capital city and in the interior, comprising hospital and primary
services within integrated networks to include private providers;
*  A Program of Assistance for the Non-Insured: as a way of addressing health
services to the most needy and to assess the demand of second and third degree health
services. The Program would include a system to identify poor non-insured people,
and a plan of medical assistance with preventive components and first-level of
prevalent and seasonal diseases, maternity and childhood and access to ambulatory
medicine;
*  The implementation of a Commitment for Management of Second and Third Level
of Complexity Hospitals will be developed as an instrunent for introducing
improvement in administrative management, in the production of quantity and quality
of services, in the model of medical and client attention, and at the same time
monitoring systems of these improvements will be developed and a reward systems
related to sectors performance will be implemented in public hospitals and out patient
networks, as well as increasing competition within the public service and between the
public and private systems
52.   Regulation and control of health insurance entities. The province is executing
a "Study and Reconversion Plan for the Provincial Social Security (OSEP) in order to
improve its efficiency and to ensure its financial sustainability and operative balance.
The programn would include automatic deduction from the contributions made by
municipal employees and OSEP beneficiaries.
53.   Strengthening the Provincial Ministry of Health in the area of health policy
and administration. The program would strengthen the capacity of the Ministry to: (i)
regulate, monitor and evaluate the health insurance and health care delivery markets; (ii)
ensure health surveillance and disease control and to provide or contract out essential
public health services; and (iii) provide public information on health, insurance and
health services.
Private Sector Development
54.   Catamarca has long relied on the public sector to provide for employment
opportunities for its citizens. Argentina's Convertibility Plan, however, has greatly
reduced the ability of the public sector to act as an engine of growth. Furthermore,
benefiting from macroeconomic stability, deregulation (particularly in mining), and
federal programs to support private investment, new opportunities have risen for private
sector development. During the 1990-97 period, private investment in Catamarca was
$1.3 billion, and is expected to reach over $800 million during the 1998-2000 period,
with another $355 million for the 2001-20005 period. Investment has been
predominately in extractive industries (90 percent), with several large mining operations.
25



Such investment has been facilitated by the Bank's Mining Development Project, which
has helped to provide greater confidence in investors, modernized processing of
exploration permits (the turnaround has fallen from several months to a day) and
strengthened environrnental oversight. To further explore ways to enhance the
development impact of these investments, a study is now being carried out under the
Mining Project to identify opportunities for increasing the role of local suppliers to the
large mining operations.
55.   The Province also benefits from federal tax breaks on investments in irrigation
agricultural operations, which has contributed to a 50 percent expansion of the area
planted since 1991 to a current total of about 75,000 hectares. Constraints to expanding
such investments include limited knowledge of water resources necessary for these
irrigated operations, and a scarcity of labor, particularly for harvesting. The Province is
committed to undertaking the hydrological studies required to better access its water
resources and to provide the basis for adequate regulation. Bank financing for such
studies is available under the ongoing Provincial Agriculture Development Project (Ln.
4150). As regards labor, local entrepreneurs report that high wages and benefits in the
public sector and the longstanding practice of the state as to employer of first resort
greatly reduces the availability and willingness of local workers and requires that most
labor be brought in from outside the Province. While this situation is unlikely to change
over the medium term, actions proposed under the program to freeze public hiring,
reduce unwarranted privileges and curb abuses should have a positive impact over time.
56.   Finally, to some extent tourism is another industry with great possibilities.
However, a notable drawback to further development here is the dismal appearance of
public areas due to inadequate solid waste disposal. This is a municipal responsibility
and the Province is committed to promoting their participation in the Second Municipal
Development Project (Ln. 3860) to resolve the situation.
57.   A major concern of the Province, noted above as regards to mining, is the need to
better integrate local small and medium-size businesses in the development process. The
inflow of investmnent and technology contrasts sharply with local entrepreneur abilities,
which have long relied on government programs and employment. The Province is
conmmitted to enhancing the Judicial and organizational framework for local business to
facilitate development. A tax simplification program is designed to reduce the
bureaucratic requirements. For farmers, a program of land titling is being explored to
enhance investment, with possible financing under the Second Provincial Development
Project. On the production side, the Province will also promote the participation of local
businesses in the IDB's program for enterprise restructuring. Finally, poorer farmers
would be supported under the ongoing Bank-financed Small Farmer Development
Project (Ln. 4212).
26



THE PROPOSED LOAN
Loan Objective and Rationale
58.   The objective of the Loan is to help the Province of Catamarca to reform and
restructure its government so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public
services within fiscally sound policies. Catamarca was selected to participate in the
program because of its reformist record since 1995, its pressing needs to enhance the
efficiency and quality of social sector spending, and the strong demonstration effect it
would have on other provinces, given its historical infamy as a poorly-run province.
59.   The proposed operation supports fiscal adjustmnent mixed with structural reform in
the social sectors, following on the design of the Second Provincial Reform Loans. The
provinces play a large role in the Argentine public sector, responsible for 40 percent of
public expenditures, and in recent years, one-third of the consolidated public deficit.
Reducing the deficit at the provincial level is particularly complicated due to the their
primary responsibility for the social sectors--education and health--which are critical to
the country's long term economic growth and poverty reduction. A few large provinces
have managed to keep their fiscal accounts in reasonable balance; however, social
services are provided poorly and inefficiently in almost all provinces, when compared to
other countries of similar level of income per capita. The PRLs focus on promoting
improved social sector delivery systems within the context of general fiscal balance.
60.   The proposed loan is consistent with the FYO 1-04 CAS discussed in the Board on
June 27, 2000. The fiscal justification for subnational adjustment lending, as discussed in
the Board Paper (R96-55) and approved on April 16, 1996, rests on the link between
fiscal deficits and pressures on the current account of the balance of payments. In
Argentina, the link between fiscal balance and the balance of payments is critical due to
the strict rules of the currency board type arrangement of the Convertibility Law.
Persistent fiscal deficits with resulting pTessures on the current account of the balance of
payments can place immediate pressures on the money supply and the financial system.
These pressures can reduce the credibility of the Government's long run ability to
maintain the Convertibility Plan. At the level of the reforming province, there is a need to
finance the cost of fiscal adjustment. The reform will have a short-run impact on the
level of expenditures (tax reform, retrenchment program, complementary social
investments, improved technical capacity to manage key social and infrastructure sectors)
calling for additional resource availability to ease the transition process.
Lessons Learned from Previous Adjustment Operations
61.   The Bank has extensive experience in the reform of the public sector through a
series of structural and sector adjustment loans and with subnational development
projects in Argentina. Key lessons may be summarized as follows. First, projects must
focus on a few significant reforms that are hard to reverse -- such as reforms passed via
legislation -- and that can be fully implemented during the mandate of an elected
administration. Second, project design and implementation arrangements must be
flexible enough to achieve targeted reform objectives. Finally to ensure commitment in
implementation, there should be strong ownership of the program components. The
proposed loan has been designed taking into account these lessons.
27



62.   Argentina's record in satisfying the conditions of adjustment loans has been
excellent since the implementation of the Convertibility Plan in 1991. The Bank has
extended US$6.6 billion in 15 such operations since 1991 (not including a freestanding
FY93 Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan, Ln. 3556-AR), as well as US$74.5 million
in four complementary technical assistance projects. These operations have met all major
objectives in a timely manner. As regards adjustment operations with the provinces, the
recently completed Provincial Reform Loan, Provincial Bank Privatization Loan, and
Provincial Pension Reform Loan have all been rated as satisfactory or above by OED.
63.   Specific lessons learned from the pilot PRL II have been noted above (para 24),
and have been incorporated into the Catamarca loan design in order to reduce risks and to
enhance implementation, as follows: (i) upfront actions have already been implemented
by the provincial government in late 1999 to put it on a healthy fiscal trajectory. With the
support of the federal program, no further major cuts would be required during the
implementation of the social sector reforms; (ii) the pacing of tranche disbursement
would cover a full two years, as opposed to the 12-18 months of PRLII, and the program
would begin implementation during the first full year of the provincial administration and
not in the middle of the second year as in the case of PRLII; (iii) most legislation
required for the program, including those involving privatization and hospital
decentralization are already in place, and the political party of the governor has a
majority in the legislature, and the Provincial cabinet is strongly reformist and was
involved in program preparation; (iv) complementary accountability and transparency
mechanisms would be implemented, starting with the overall fiscal accounts, and
participatory mechanisms were initiated during preparation and specific issues would
benefit from workshops involving major stakeholders; and (v) a plan for technical
assistance has been developed with the Provincial and Federal Governments and linked to
ongoing multilateral operations, including a program of technical assistance would be
initiated by the Province to assist municipalities in improving their institutional capacity
with a view toward facilitating future reforms.
Role of the National Government
64.   Staff from the Ministries of Economy, Interior, Education, and Health, and the
Secretary of Natural Resources and Environment participated in the preparatory work,
ensuring not only that the proposed policies were consistent with the national policies but
also that the Province can count on the support of the Federal Government during
implementation. The program was vetted by the Mesa Provincial, a national
coordinating group for reforms in the provinces chaired by the Secretary for Economic
Programming of the Ministry of Economy, and comprised of representatives from the
Office of the Chief of Cabinet Office and the Ministry of Interior. Since the new Federal
administration took office in December 1999, the proposed operation has undergone
another round of vetting to ensure that it is consistent with the objectives of the new
Government.
Collaboration with Other Operations and Technical Assistance Needs
65.   There are considerable synergies between the reform program and a number of
ongoing investment projects that operate in the Province. First, the proposed loan, by
28



providing a more stable fiscal context, will an impact on ongoing Bank-financed
provincial projects in the area of infrastructure and sustainable development, particularly
roads, water, and agriculture: assisting provincial governments attain creditworthiness in
a sustained fashion is key if the province are to be able to benefit from the ongoing IDB
and Bank projects, by ensuring that enough counterpart funds are available. Conversely,
the technical support and sectoral policies being pursued under those operations will be
available to support and guide the reform program. In addition, there are direct links with
the Bank and IDB-assisted social projects; they are mutually reinforcing. In education,
the action program supported by the proposed project is in line with the reform policy
implemented by the national government. In the case of Catamarca in particular, the
proposed loan will help the education sector to face severe budget constraints,
guaranteeing the sustainability of investments, and the capacity to respond to the needs
associated with the implementation of the Education Law, which extends the mandatory
education from six to nine years. The technical assistance necessary to support various
actions considered in the eligible province will be financed by the institutional
strengthening component of the IDB- financed PRISE program. PRODYMES I, through
its national component, provides technical support to the province to improve the
management of the education sector.
66.  In health, the PRL complements other ongoing Bank loans, namely SSAL,
PROMIN, and PRESSAL. First, while the SSAL protects high priority federal social
expenditures, PRL will ensure that the overall level of provincial health expenditures is
not reduced during fiscal adjustment and that the maternal-child care programs of
PROMIN receive priority attention. Second, the PRL applies the concept of self-managed
hospitals in additional province, a key objective of PRESSAL (a pilot project) and, more
importantly, advances the aforementioned idea of tying its implementation to a broader
health finance reform agenda, without which the efficiency gains from self-managed
hospitals would be limited. In this regard, PRESSAL and PRL teams have been working
closely together.
67.   Third, while the recently completed Health Insurance Reform Loan addressed
efficiency and equity issues pertaining to major Obras Sociales Nacionales, the PRL
deals with similar issues confronting the Obras Sociales Provinciales, and is helping
provincial governments develop a public health insurance fund (within current budgetary
constraints) to finance coverage of the uninsured (mostly the poor). In short, the
proposed loan integrates various elements of Bank-supported health reform initiates to
modernize Argentina's health sector, improve its efficiency and protect the poor. The
relation between PRL and ongoing health programs will be further deepened with the
strengthening of provincial links with PRESSAL.
68.   The relatively fragile institutional capacity of the Province and the depth and
complexity of the reform program call for sustained technical assistance. As mentioned
before, the assistance to the education reform program will be provided by the IDB-
financed PRISE and by the Bank-financed PRODYMES. This will help the province to
implement the technical studies need to: (i) adopt a new formula-based for private
schools subsidies; (ii) class consolidation; and (iii) design and follow up pilot cases of
decentralization of secondary education. In health, the Bank-financed PRESSAL will
continue and intensify the assistance provided during preparation of the program. Other
29



needs to finance equipment, studies on labor conversion, and assistance with fiscal policy
will be financed by the on-going Provincial Development II, managed by the Ministry of
Interior. Water sector reforms would be supported by the Water Sector Reform Project,
reform of the roads directorate by the Provincial Roads Project, and bank privatization
by the Fondo Fiduciario, created by the recently completed Provincial Bank
Privatization Loan.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
69.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in the design and supervision of
adjustment operations in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in economic and
sector work. The IMF shares our concern regarding the need to help improve the
provincial fiscal situation. Bank staff will coordinate with the IMF to make sure the
compatibility of this loan with the current and future programs with the IMF. The IDB,
which is cofinancing the SSAL, has collaborated closely with the Bank on provincial
reform and co-financed the recently completed First Provincial Development Project and
Provincial Bank Privatization Loan. It also has its own program to support reforms in
larger, more fiscally sound and economically developed provinces, including the
Provinces of Buenos Aires and Mendoza and the City of Buenos Aires. Further direct
collaboration with the IDB is anticipated in support of the reform program of the
Province of Cordoba.
Loan Description
70.   The proposed loan would support the Province of Catamarca in implementing a
public sector reform program with a series of fiscal, administrative and social measures.
The Federal Government would on-lend to the province the counterpart funds equivalent
to the loan amount of $70.7 million. The loan would be disbursed to the Federal
Government, with immediate transfer of the local counterpart funds to the province under
onlending terms agreed with the Bank.
Borrower and Loan Amount
71.   The Borrower of the adjustment loan would be the Argentine Republic. The
beneficiary will be the Province of Catamarca. The amount, US$70.7 million, was
determined as a function of the population of the province, loan size relative to annual
transfers, and adjustment needs and depth of the program. While the loan size relative to
federal transfers to the province is on par with PRL II provinces (about 15 percent lower
than the highest of those provinces), on a per capita basis, the loan for Catamarca is
significantly higher than the previous loans (almost 50 percent higher). The size,
however, is justified given the breadth of the program over more sectors and its depth in
both health and education relative to the PRL II provinces. Indeed, Catamarca is taking
on issues-such as teacher statutes and school autonomy for example-which are
advances in the reform agenda. Disbursements for the loan would be conditioned on
Loan effectiveness, and subsequent positive evaluations of the compliance of the
province to loan conditionality. The attached Policy Matrix (Annex B) contains the
performance criteria agreed on how to evaluate compliance with the conditionality.
While the formnal tranche-release actions will be limited to key measures, the full program
of the province is detailed in the Letter of Provincial Reform (LPR).
30



Tranche Disbursement
72.   The loan would disburse in three tranches. The first tranche disbursement of
US$25.7 million would be released after loan effectiveness since actions required for
disbursement will have been implemented prior to Board presentation. The second
tranche disbursement of US$20 million would be released at least nine months later,
depending on the speed of the reform following a positive review of conditionality. A
third tranche of US$25 million is expected to be similarly released at least nine months
later.
Letter of Provincial Reform
73.   The attached Letter of Provincial Reform (Annex A) indicates the importance of
the loan for the Province and its commitment to take the necessary measures, including
proposing legislation. The LPR also indicates the Province's intentions regarding: (i)
personnel cost reductions; (ii) tax administration improvements; (iii) new investment and
borrowing; (iv) overall fiscal outcomes; (v) privatization of the provincial bank and water
company; and (vi) change in the structure of finance and service delivery of social and
infrastructure services. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the content of the
Letter of Provincial Reform as well as the final objectives and benchmarks against which
the program will be evaluated, as well as the Public Expenditure Program, performance
indicators, and quantified conditionality.
Conditions of Tranche Release
74.   Successful implementation will be assessed by reference to agreed performance
benchmarks as agreed in the Policy Matrix (Annex B).
Program Implementation
75.  Implementation of the program will be coordinated by staff reporting directly to
the Governor. The Coordinator will focus on the continuous monitoring of progress in
the reform program, the evaluation of compliance with performance benchmarks prior to
tranche disbursements, and the quarterly monitoring reports. Implementation, itself,
would be undertaken by the various provincial ministries and agencies involved. At the
national level, the Ministry of Economy will undertake regular supervision of the fiscal
and debt components; the inputs will be part of the quarterly monitoring. In order to
ensure consistency with national level policies, the Federal Ministries of Health and
Education will also work closely with the provincial implementation teams and be
involved in the monitoring of progress. The Ministry of Interior will provide the
coordination with ongoing projects. The Closing Date would be March 31, 2003, near to
the end of the present provincial administration.
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing
76.   Loan disbursements would be made under simplified SAL/SECAL disbursement
procedures. Under the revised procedures, SAL/SECAL proceeds will be disbursed
against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including compliance
with stipulated tranche release conditions. Disbursements will not be linked to any
31



specific purchases; hence evidence will not be needed to support disbursements.
However, there will be a standard prohibition on using proceeds to cover expenditures
incurred in the borrower's currency; hence loan proceeds can be kept as country foreign
reserves or be used for imports (other than for standard excluded expenditures). Tranche
release review and program supervision will ensure that programs supported by these
loans are carried out as agreed.
77.   Once the loan becomes effective, the Borrower will open and maintain a
corresponding deposit account in dollars in the Central Bank. Once the Bank is satisfied
that the Province has fulfilled the conditions for tranche release, it will inform the
National Ministry of Economy. As funds for the tranche are released, the Borrower
(Ministry of Economy) will submit a simplified withdrawal application against which the
Bank will disburse the corresponding loan proceeds into the Deposit account for the
Borrower's use. As soon as the funds are deposited into the Borrower's account, there
will be automatic transfer by the Borrower to the Province of local counterpart funds in
amounts equivalent to the disbursed loan proceeds, all under lending terms agreed with
the Bank.
78.   Prior to the tranche release, and after the Bank has reviewed compliance of the
Province, the Borrower will submit to the Bank a report on the provincial compliance
with the release conditions. Bank staff will confirm all provincial conditionality
compliance actions before tranche release. The Province will also submit to the Bank,
every three months, report on the implementation of the program, updated fiscal
accounts, and revised projections for the remaining of the period. The Deposit Account
may be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, if the Bank so requests.
Copies of these audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the
date of the Bank's request for such audits.
Monitoring Indicators
79.   A set of monitoring indicators has been agreed with the Province to measure the
impact of the program in improved quality of services. These indicators, included in the
Letter of Provincial Reform (Annex A), are mostly short-term since significant
improvement in social indicators will take more time. Indicators of literacy rates,
education performance, mortality rates and malnutrition will continue to be collected and
published by the Province.
Environmental Concerns
80.   The provincial reform program will not have adverse environmental impacts and
has been classified in the "C" environmental impact category. However, under the
program, efforts will be made to strengthen local institutions to improve on current
practices.
81.   In the roads department, as part of the pre-conditions for the Provincial Roads
Project an Environmental Unit was created within DPV in 1995-96 and the assigned staff
received basic training. The unit would be re-activated under the program and properly
staffed with arrangements for appropriate training. A fresh evaluation of the unit's
functions, procedures and organization needs to be made by the coordinating unit in order
32



to identify and internalize best practices with respect to environmental and social
assessments (especially public participation) within DPV, as has been done in the
Provincial Directorate for Mines under the Bank-financed Mining Development TA
Project.
82.  In public health, an assessment of current practices in the public hospitals is now
underway to see how they might be improved.. The waste management practices within
these hospitals will be evaluated so as to assess the adequacy of the waste destruction
equipment, transportation and disposal practices of pathological wastes, which are
governed under a national law that ensures proper management of pathological wastes,
proper design and operation of pathological waster destruction units, and proper
transportation and disposal of these wastes outside the hospitals. PRESSAL will assist the
province to implement this policy, as in the PRL II provinces. Although not currently
contemplated under the program, if public hospitals were to be granted greater autonomy,
such management contracts would include safeguards for the handling of hospital waste.
Participatory Aspects
83.   Catamarca in recent years has sought to significantly increase the participation of
civil society in the Province, and the Development Programn (Plan Estrategico
Consensuado, December 1996) of the previous administration was developed in a
participatory manner. In order to inform the design of the proposed program, a social
assessment was undertaken with a general survey and focus groups including the major
stakeholders. The main results and impact on program design are as follows:
 Over half of those surveyed identified social services (either health or education) as
priority concerns, validating the overall focus of the program on social service
delivery.
* In general terms, the public sector was not seen as spending wisely and there was
concern about the diversion of funds to areas other than those budgeted. The program
seeks to protect overall levels of social sector spending, while supporting increased
investment.
* Relatively high public sector wages and privileges, including leave policy and
working hours, were seen as unfair by those surveyed, although there was little
sympathy for reducing the overall level of public employment. Civil service reforms
would respond to concerns about unfair privileges. Reticence for staff downsizing
stems from a lack of perceived employment opportunities in the private sector. Given
the relatively healthy fiscal performance over the past few years, and the fact that
public employment has already been reduced by 15 percent from levels in 1995, the
Province is in a position to avoid the need for major layoffs. However, the
contemplated civil service reforms will identify specific areas requiring adjustment,
which could reach about 5 percent of total staff over the life of the program. They
would benefit from retrenchment programs.
* Decentralization to increase accountability at the local level was endorsed, but many
were wary about the allocation of resources under the decentralization schemes
33



indicating the need for simple and transparent mechanisms for allocation of resources
and cost recovery.
* In education, while most agreed with the objectives of the federal education reform,
there was little knowledge of specifics and most felt that it was not being
implemented adequately in the Province and that too little was being spent on
education in general.
* In health, the vast majority agreed with extending health insurance to the poor, but
were concerned about adrninistrative disarray in health and excessive spending. An
overwhelming number consider teenage pregnancy as a major problem and that it was
due to ignorance or lack of contraceptives. Under the program, hospital
decentralization is expected to make their administration more responsive to clients
and the restructuring of health networks would reduce over-investment in new
facilities. Further, special prograrns would be supported to begin addressing
reproductive health education among teenagers.
84.   Apart from the survey and focus groups, consultation was also undertaken with
road workers in the preparation of the DPV reform program, who helped identify
problems and proposed solutions to imnprove performance. Reform of DPV procedures
would include the use of public hearings associated with proposed investments.
85.   Subsequently, the Bank held a forum in Catarnarca with the participation of major
stakeholders that included a public presentation and discussion of the Bank's diagnosis of
the fiscal situation and social services in the province and the program being supported.
The presentation was complemented by a press conference and coverage in all local
media. An important issue raised at the forum concerned the situation and impact on
municipal govemments. The provincial Government confirmed its intention to provide
assistance to the municipal governments in improving their fiscal accounts and in
mitigating the social impact of the proposed reforms. During implementation, future
forums and workshops would be used to help achieve consensus on specific reform
issues, particularly in education. Finally, greater participation by civil society would be
reinforced by providing in-time public accounts on-line.
86.   A specific gender analysis, which included consultation with interested parties,
was undertaken to identify possible gender issues that could be addressed by the program,
including those that could lead to negative impacts. The findings of the analysis can be
divided into two groups. First, the analysis found gender differences in the access to
social services (both education and health) and gender inequities in the responsiveness of
the social services in addressing men's and women's needs. Second, the analysis
identified the lack of mechanisms within the public sector management to guarantee
equal professional development opportunities to men and women. The gender analysis
concludes that the program provides an excellent opportunity to both address gender
issues, and enhance the effectiveness of public sector management and social service
delivery, and to this end, the program has incorporated the actions recommended by the
gender analysis (Annex C).
34



Benefits and Risks
87.   Benefits and Social Impacts. The main benefit of the loan would be an
improved and responsive public sector, with enhanced quantity and quality of service,
particularly in education and health for the poor, consistent with the budgetary
constraints. However, it should be recognized that some of the reforms will have adverse
affects on individuals, particularly public sector employees and teachers whose
conditions of employment may change, and particular groups who benefit from subsidies.
Accordingly, social impacts on incomes, employment, access to human capital
opportunities and public subsidies beneficiaries were undertaken by the social, gender
and poverty assessment. The results are as follows:
*  Unemployment: The public sector in Catamarca presents serious imbalances
between remuneration and productivity, and is overstaffed, with the provincial public
labor force representing nearly 10% of the population. A high proportion of the
public sector employees belongs to the higher income groups. According to the
provincial income structure, 25% of the public sector employees belong to the
highest income strata (9th and 10" deciles), while the next two preceding deciles
account for an additional 29% of the employees. The initial salary adjustment being
implemented by the Province targets these higher paid workers, which may see their
salaries reduced by as much as 10 percent, with lower paid workers being reduced by
substantially less. Subsequent reductions in the size of the public sector that may be
required would be sequenced and governed by the human administration reform.
The direct effects on employment in terms of income vulnerability would depend on
the capacities and resources of the staff who may be leaving the sector.
Nevertheless, to ameliorate these impacts, the retrenchment would be coordinated
closely with the private sector development program, particularly in its strategy on
micro and small private businesses, to provide options for those leaving the sector.
In addition, the implementation of a training program would also contribute to
enhance the capacity of the leaving staff to engage in other economic opportunities
by upgrading their work skills.
*  Access to human capital opportunities: The gender assessment identified that a
change in the Teacher Statutes will enhance the professional development
opportunities that the teaching career offers to women. The current one offers very
limited opportunities and incentives for career advance as it is based on seniority and
contemplates few high skilled-demanding positions.
*     4Access to social services: The recently completed Poverty Assessment indicates that
the lack of social services in Argentina affects the poor disproportionately and
underscores the importance of the proposed reforms being supported in Catamarca
for reducing poverty. While the poor should benefit from the overall improvement
in health and education services in Catamarca, the program also includes specially
targeted activities for the poor. First, spending in education would be redirected
toward the at risk population and retention programs would be implemented to assist
children of poor families to remain in school. In health, insurance for the poor
would help to ensure equal access to quality care. While health promotion and
education would be improved for the entire population, the poor are likely to benefit
35



from these programs to a greater degree. Access to water and sewerage by the poor
is also a major concern. Both the regulatory framework and the concession contract
include the potential tools, which can be used to provide subsidies to the poor. A
study in collaboration with the Social Services Department of the National
University in Catamarca would identify the poor within the concession area and
define a more specific methodology for the application of the subsidy policy.
88.   Finally, monitoring indicators have been developed for measuring these impacts
during implementation and at completion (Annex A).
89.   Risks. The main risk is the reversibility of some of the reforms in case of
political changes, eroded political commitment, or a deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment. First, the program is designed to be fully implemented during the earlier
years of the provincial administration's four-year term, unlike the case of PRL II where
important reforms were required in the midst of an electoral year. As regards political
commitment, the newly elected Governor's commitment to policies is considered to be
strong. He was closely involved in preparation activities and has tailored his key cabinet
positions in health and education to the requirements of the program. To further
demonstrate the resolve of the Province, the program includes upfront actions designed to
demonstrate such commitment. Moreover, requirements for legislation for implementing
many of the proposed policy changes reduces risks of reversal. In addition, public sector
reforms initiated by the previous administration will help to provide the necessary
incentives, accountability mechanisms and institutional capacity required by the program.
Finally, the social assessment conducted during preparation indicates that the program
objectives resonate within civil society. Experience under the ongoing operations
suggests that strong political commitrnent and the general acceptance of the specific
policy measures in Argentina (i.e., fiscal discipline, privatization, decentralization) has
enabled the provinces to sustain their reform efforts even during the recent economic
downtum.
RECOMMENDATION
90.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
August 21, 2000
Attachments
36



ANNEX A
Province of Catamarca
Letter of Provincial Reform
(translation)
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
1. This letter describes the main aspects and objectives of the reform program for the
Province of Catamarca, as well as the main actions that the Province intends to carry out
in the areas of public finance, education and health. To undertake the implementation of
the reform, the Province considers that the World Bank's technical and financial
assistance is of vital importance.
Background and Recent Reform Efforts
2. Catamarca is a small, poor province of the Argentine Northwest. Its per capita
income was approximately $4,500 in 1997, about half the national average, and 17th out
of 24 provinces. Catamarca also ranks poorly as regards social indicators. Almost one-
fourth of the population cannot meet their basic needs, according to the Basic Unsatisfied
Needs (NBI) measure used in Argentina, as compared to a national rate of 16.5 percent.
The child mortality rate in 1995 was 26.1 per 1000 births, well above the national average
of 18 per 1000, with high rates of birth and teenage pregnancies, as well as a high prenatal
mortality. In education, Catamarca has a school attendance level that is well below the
national average. The net school attendance rate for primary education is only 63 percent,
which points to high repeater and absenteeism rates. Secondary education situation is
even worse at only 51 percent. Moreover, based on national evaluations, the quality of
education in Catamarca is considered among the worst in the country. While 71 percent
of the population benefits from access to piped water systems (as compared to 76 percent
nationwide, low for a country at Argentina's level of income), only 32 percent are
connected to sewage systems. Finally, the Province also compares unfavorably in other
infrastructure services. For example, it has one of the country's lowest road densities
(0.05 km/sq. km compared to the national average of 0. 1).
3. During much of the past twenty years, the province's fiscal performance has been
dismal, with poor management and controls, and excessive current expenditures stemming
from the massive incorporation of workers into the public sector. This has resulted in
high levels of indebtedness. Poor fiscal performance is compounded by inefficiencies in
spending, which lower the effectiveness and quality of public services. Thus, in contrast
to its poor health indicators, the Province's spending on public health is at par with the
national average (about $300 per capita); and, in contrast to poor educational outcomes,
Catamarca has one of the country's highest unit costs (expenses per pupil), which is only
partially explained by the need to service a dispersed population. Despite sufficient
production capacity, inefficiencies in the public water company results in rationing at



ANNEX A - Page 2 of I 1
times and poor quality services. Poor collection and high cost leave little for needed
expansion and investments in water supply and sewerage, and annual transfers from the
provincial treasury of about $10 million are needed just to cover the operational deficit.
Despite low road density, Catarnarca devotes about 6 percent of its budget to the sector,
one of the highest levels among provinces. Still, spending on roads is inefficient and
compromises the Province's ability to maintain and improve the road network. Finally,
the provincial bank, which in the past served to help finance the fiscal deficit, requires
periodic recapitalization to cover large losses, with $56 million in support from the
provincial treasury since 1992.
4. Beginning with a federal intervention in the early 1990s, the Province has undertaken
a series of reforms to improve its public sector performance, with the support of the First
Provincial Reform Loan and The First and Second Provincial Development Projects
(PDP I and II), financed by the Bank. Among the main achievements to date has been the
implementation of a modem system for financial management, patterned on the national
system, and the privatization of the energy distribution company, tourist and casino
facilities. and the bus terminal. The implementation of voluntary retirement programs for
personnel, as well as privatizations made it possible to reduce its staff by 15 percent. On
the revenue side, institutional strengthening of the provincial tax agency (DGR) helped to
increase local tax collections by 78 percent between 1995 and 1998. As a part of this
process, the provincial cadastre was updated, making it possible to both increase the
number of real estate taxpayers and improve the equity of tax values. Finally, the
provincial pension was transferred to the national government with the support of the
Bank, relieving a fiscal burden, and contributing to national macroeconomic reforms. As
a result, the deficit in current spending was improved from 19 percent of current revenues
in 1995, to a positive balance of 2 percent by 1998, and personnel cost relative to current
revenues decline from 83 percent in 1995 to 53 percent in 1998. The performance in
relieving the debt burden was less successful, although the debt stock relative to current
revenues declined from 83 percent in 1995 to 78 percent in 1998.
5. Reforms in education were also begun with both the implementation of the federal
educational reform at EGB' and Polimodal2 levels and reforms to improve efficiency and
quality. However, together with increasing demographic growth, extending compulsory
education from 7 to 10 years, urgently requires improvements in the use of sector
resources. In the past few years, the Ministry of Education has taken several other
initiatives to carry out educational reform including the restructuring of the teacher
training institutes to reduce their number from 25 to 16 and freezing enrollment for pre-
school, EGB I and EGB II, for which the needs are already met. Progress has also been
made in the development of a number of administrative reforms within the framework of
the Bank-financed First Secondary Education Project (PRODYMES 1).
' Educacion General Basica 1, II, III: Basic General Education provided to children ages 6 to 14.
2 Polimodal consists of three years of education (ages 15 to 17), following EGB. It offers five different
choices: Humanities-Social Sciences, Administration and Management, Art, Industry and Agriculture,
Environment and Health.



ANNEX A - Page 3 of 11
6. The health sector has benefited from substantial investment in recent years leading to
improvements in service. However, the sustainability of these investments and increasing
their effectiveness requires a restructuring of the system to both improve the public
network's focus on the uninsured poor and redirect the network towards primary care and
outpatient medical care. In addition, the opportunity exists to strengthen health promotion
and the prevention of illnesses.
7. Finally, fiscal improvements begun in 1995 were not sustained during the first half of
1999, with a deterioration in the accounts due to a combination of excessive spending and
the overall downturn in the economy resulting in lower than expected federal transfers.
The current deficit has reemerged at 2 percent of current revenues. While not a poor
performance given the economic downturn, the level of debt, including floating debt,
increased to 91 percent of current revenues, underlining the fragile status that the Province
still finds itself in fiscally, and the needed for deeper structural reforms to provide it with
the needed flexibility to increase investment and adjust to downturns.
The Reform Program
8. Building on these earlier efforts, the Province has asked for Bank support for a
strategy oriented both at deepening and extending the reform process for the public sector,
achieving a sound provincial government structure that contributes to guaranteeing equal
opportunities to its inhabitants, improving the standard of living and achieving its longed-
for goals of economic and social development. The program for the 1999-2002 period has
four main components: Public Finance and Administration, Education, Health and Private
Sector Development.
Public Finance and Administration
9. The Provincial Government is committed to reaching a sustainable fiscal situation.
Specific aims are to: (a) achieve an annual current surplus such that debt servicing can be
met; (b) reduce the overall cost of staff to 56 percent as a maximum of current net
resources; and, (c) ensure a fiscal surplus such that it makes it possible to reduce debt and
bring the latter down to below the equivalent of 100 percent of current revenues. These
fiscal objectives are to be achieved while protecting and enhancing spending for vital
social services in health and education, and to mitigate the social costs of the needed fiscal
adjustment. Attainment of these goals would be facilitated by a series of activities,
including increasing transparency and accountability, through continued improvements in
public sector management and improvements in local tax collection.
*  Annual audits of the fiscal accounts to be made publicly available, and in-time
accounts to be made available on-line.
*  Tax administration program, focusing on simplification of gross income for
small contributors and administrative procedures for the settlement of
provincial taxes, and increasing revenues from the property tax.



ANNEX A - Page 4 of 11
* Human Resource Administration reform to ensure that services are
efficiently provided. The proposed actions will provide the basis for reducing
the size of the public sector (based on province-specific proposals) and provide
greater incentives to improve productivity. Implementation, including the
financing of studies and technical assistance, would be supported through the
Second Provincial Development Project. Elements include a training program
for staff, a salary scale incorporating merit-based pay, and the piloting of
performance contracting in selected units and possible expansion depending
upon the results.
10. Privatization and Outsourcing to improve services and reduce fiscal stress. The
process of redefining the role of the govemrnment would continue with the privatization of
the provincial bank and water company.  The fiscal benefits and performance
improvements of privatization have been well established in Argentina and support for
implementation is readily available. Outsourcing of services offers the potential of
improving public sector perforrnance and rationalizing the labor force.
1 The privatization of the bank would benefit from the technical and financial
assistance of the Fondo Fiduciario (Fiduciary Fund). The Province has already
offered 51 percent of the bank in an unsuccessful public bidding, and I have
received legislative authorization to increase the offer up to 100 percent of the
bank in order to attract new private sector owners. If not successful, the bank
would be liquidated in consultation with the Central Bank.
*  The concessioning of the provision of water and sewage services is being
supported by the federal water agency, ENHOSA, with the concessioning of
services in the Valle Central, which accounts for about 50 percent of the
provincial population. With the concession, over the next ten years the
Province expects to increase metering from the current 16 percent to 86 percent,
sewerage coverage from 52 percent to 76 percent, and reduce the unaccounted
for water level from 41 percent to 15 percent.  The program will also
incorporate mechanisms for facilitating the connection of poorer households. A
multi-sector regulatory agency, ENRE, would be responsible for regulatory
functions. As well as improving service and coverage, concessioning of the
water company is expected to result in annual savings of $7-10 million for the
treasury.
*  The Province is in the process of identifying a variety of services now
performed in-house for possible outsourcing, including road maintenance noted
below, which would be implemented under the prograrn.
11. Rationalizing Public Investment would focus on road expenditures under a program
of strengthening of highway planning and rationalization of expenditures; improving



ANNEX A - Page 5 of 11
highway efficiency, productivity, and results; and strengthening environmental assessment
and participatory processes. To achieve these objectives the Province would:
*  Update the 1995 road network condition and traffic surveys and define a
rational and balanced multi-year (2000-2004) road expenditure program using
the HDM model;
* Modernizing the Provincial Road Agency (DPV) and improving its productivity
by: the creation of a planning departmnent, and a department for technical and
operational assistance to municipalities and execution of delegated maintenance
of national roads; the separation of the central workshop as a commercially-
managed entity with new responsibilities and functions; a new policy on
equipment leasing and renting; a freeze on hiring new personnel with a re-
deployment and reconversion of labor through the creation of micro-enterprises
for routine maintenance operations (using the recent successful experience in
Uruguay as a model) and specialized work crews for road safety and
environmental mitigation, accompanied by a new policy for improving private
sector participation in the management and execution of maintenance programs
through pilot CREMA3 and annual maintenance contracts.
e  Adopt the Environmental Manual developed under the Provincial Roads
Project, including the incorporation of public hearing practices in the
assessment process and a training program to strengthen DPV capacity to
screen projects, perform and supervise environmental impact studies, and
monitor compliance by contractors.
Education
12. Catamarca's education program for the coming years involves a series of actions to
generate improvements in efficiency, which will make it possible to cover expanding
enrollment and to produce significant improvements in quality. The achieved savings will
be allocated to financing expenditures on educational materials, books, equipment,
infrastructure and compensatory measures to encourage poor children to stay in school. In
addition, the administrative and organizational reforms will strengthen the capacity to
design and manage as well as implement and monitor educational policies and strategies.
Selected reforms include actions to allow for class consolidation, control of absenteeism,
reduction of overhead costs, reconversion of public teacher training institutions; and new a
new system for allocating transfers to privately-administered schools. The program builds
upon extensive experience of the Bank and the IDB, and implementation would be
supported through various operations being coordinated by the National Ministry of
Education.
13. Restructuring the Budget. The Province is cornmitted to maintaining adequate
3An innovative program for increasing private sector participation in road maintenance developed under
the Bank-financed National Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.



ANNEX A - Page 6 of 11
levels of financing for education, while at the same time improving the structure of
spending to emphasize greater investment and improve the quality of public education.
The current budget should be adequate for a measured implementation of the federal
reform to increased obligatory schooling by three years, if there is a concerted effort to
reduce the large inefficiencies in spending. Reforms in the administration of human
resources and institutional reform will result in savings, which will make it possible to
reallocate the budget to non-salary expenses. The Province, which currently spends
almost its entire education budget on personnel salaries and benefits (including transfers
to the private sector, which represent 6.5 percent of the budget), would reduce this share
to free up funds for investment.
14. Improving Efficiency and Quality. Catamarca has one of the nation's highest cost,
lowest quality school systems, plagued by low school attendance on the part of both
students and teachers. Efficiency gains would be required to allow for implementation of
the national education reform within budget constraints. Particular emphasis would be
given to upgrading, poorly prepared teachers now with little incentive for improvement.
A change in the Teacher Statute, which governs their work rules, is a fundamental step
toward improvements in the longer term. Catamarca would be a pioneer in this area,
drawing upon earlier analysis done by the Bank at the national level. Specific actions
would include:
*   Implementation of quality improvement policies for students focusing on: (i)
retention strategies; and, (ii) integration and assistance to low performance
groups and remedial courses. Implementation of a provincial system for quality
evaluation, and implementation of EGB III and Polimodal linked to savings
within the budget envelope.
*  A program to reform of the Teacher Statute, which governs teacher pay and
conditions of employment. to include: (i) a salary scheme with incentives for
quality, results and attendance; (ii) selection of directors and teachers at school
unit level through a competitive system; (iii) reformulation of the area bonus
into one based on educational risk; (iv) new supervisory functions; (v)
requirements of a teaching degree; and, (vi) a new leave policy.
* Tightening of teacher leave regulations and the outsourced system for medical
checks on sick leave will be improved. This is expected to reduce the use of
substitute teachers from 25 percent of the total to 10-15 percent.
* Implementation of the administration reform will be consolidated through: (i) a
system for the administration of human resources (including: a single teacher
file, a new salary payment operation, computerized administrative processes);
(ii) design of new objectives for the staff belonging to the central administration
and the supervisory system; (iii) redrafting staffing requirements for EGB and
Polimodal, which will produce savings that will be reassigned to financing the
necessary investment expenditures in order to consolidate EGB III and
Polimodal implementation. These activities would allow an improvement from



ANNEX A - Page 7 of 11
the current student/teacher ratio of 14:1 to 20:1 at EGB I and II levels, and
student/class ratios at EGB III and Polimodal levels from 27:1 to 35:1.
15. Piloting Decentralized Management at the School Level to enhance accountability.
Catamarca would also experiment with a new scheme for school autonomy.
*  The new decentralized management model at school level would include:
decentralization of resource administration for maintenance and other operating
expenses; local school responsibility in teacher selection; a pilot program for
improving quality with remedial courses for students with difficulties; a
program of compensatory policies in areas of educational risk; an increase in
the net number of hours of teaching and supervision based on indicators for
management by results.
*  Administrative decentralization would be promoted via two funding schemes:
(i) one in which the funds would be allocated on the basis of criteria that
promote compensation for disadvantaged schools; (ii) another in which funds
produced by the reform of the leave system and absenteeism control would be
allocated to schools that meet targets for teacher attendance.  Advisory
Councils have been created to administer the funds.
-  A pilot test in several schools for a new scheme of school autonomy, to include
a decentralized payment scheme.  This would include: (i) local school
participation in teacher appointment; and, (ii) decentralization at school level
for the payment of teacher salaries and all other recurrent expenditures.
16. Improving the Allocation of Resources to the Private Sector to enhance efficiency,
equity and quality. About 6.5 percent of the education budget is transferred to private
schools as subsidies. The allocation of these funds, however, is largely based on historical
agreements and normally on the number of teachers employed. As such they provide little
incentive for improvements. A new system for allocating the subsidies would be based on
objective criteria, including the number of students, their socioeconomic background, and
the quality of schools. This is expected to enhance incentives for efficiency, equity and
quality, as well as increased private sector participation.
17. Conversion of the Teacher Training System to both improve the efficiency of
sector spending and to enhance teacher quality. The Province would seek to enhance the
benefits of current spending on teacher training and reorient the curriculum to
complement the Federal Education Reform. The ongoing effort to consolidate the
conversion of teacher training institutes would continue with mergers, freezing vacancies
for EGB I and II, and implementing an accreditation system. A conversion plan has been
prepared which includes: (i) merger plans; (ii) adjusting demand of professors with
graduates; (iii) freezing vacancies for EGB I and II; and (iv) contents of the new syllabi.
Of the 26 institutes operating in 1995, the Province has reduced the number to 16 public



ANNEX A - Page 8 of 11
teacher-training institutes now in operation, and under the program would reduce the
number to twelve.
Health
18. The Province's strategy is oriented towards: ensuring the coverage of the population,
particularly for the more vulnerable social sectors, improving the population's
choices and ensuring the fiscal feasibility. As indicated above, implementation would
draw on ongoing experiences in PRL II provinces, with support from the National
Ministry of Health. Actions would include:
19. Restructuring Health Care Financing to support better targeting of public personal
health services to the uninsured poor, to improve the efficiency and sustainability of
the provincial health insurance carrier, and to ensure adequate resources to provide
essential public health services to the entire population. A public health expenditure
review carried out as part of project preparation showed that current public health
spending levels in Catamarca are adequate to finance both a personal health care
benefits package for all the uninsured poor and to finance programs in public health
services in promotion and prevention for the entire population. However, some
changes are needed within the current budget envelope. Policy would tend to i) a
change in the commitment of resources to preventive public health programs, trying
to include others concerning the reduction of the main causes of loss in years of life,
as well as reproductive health and accident prevention and injury control, reassigning
budgetary resources that would increase percentage devoted to this item from 6 to 8%
for years 2001 and 2002 (ii). Budget resources devoted to staff expenditures would be
brought down to 80 percent under the program, opening space for capital investment
and maintenance. The program would include a shift in resources for public health
programs including those concerning the reduction of the main causes of loss in years
of life, such as reproductive health accident prevention and injury control. Budget
resources devoted to staff expenditures, now at 85 percent, would be brought down to
65 percent under the program, opening space for capital investment and maintenance.
20. Restructuring the Public Health Care Delivery The program of enhancing the
efficiency and quality of public health services would include the following elements:
*  The Province would sanction a legal framework for cost recovery for the services
granted to clients covered by health insurance, as a way of reducing implicit public
subsidies to entities responsible for the coverage of insured people;
*  The development of a rationalization and consolidation plan of the health
services network in the capital city and in the provinces, comprising hospital and
primary services within integrated networks to include private providers
*  A Program of Assistance for the Non-Insured: as a way of addressing health
services to the most needy and to assess the demand of second and third degree health
services. The Program would include a system to identify poor non-insured people,
and a plan of medical assistance with preventive components and first-level of



ANNEX A - Page 9 of 11
prevalent and seasonal diseases, maternity and childhood and access to ambulatory
medicine;
The implementation of a Commitment for Management of Second and Third
Level of Complexity Hospitals will be developed as an instrument for introducing
improvement in administrative management, in the production of quantity and quality
of services, in the model of medical and client attention, and at the same time
monitoring systems of these improvements will be developed and a reward systems
related to sectors performance will be implemented in public hospitals and out patient
networks, as well as increasing competition within the public service and between the
public and private systems.
21. Regulation and control of health insurance entities. The province is executing a
"Study and Reconversion Plan for the Provincial Social Security (OSEP) in order to
improve its efficiency and to ensure its financial sustainability and operative balance.
The program would include automatic deduction from the contributions made by
municipal employees and OSEP beneficiaries.
22. Strengthening the Provincial Ministry of Health in the area of health policy and
administration. The program would strengthen the capacity of the Ministry to: (i)
regulate, monitor and evaluate the health insurance and health care delivery markets;
(ii) ensure health surveillance and disease control and to provide or contract out
essential public health services; and (iii) provide public information on health,
insurance and health services.
Private Sector Development
23. Catamarca has long relied on the public sector to provide for employment
opportunities for its citizens. The Convertibility Plan, however, has greatly reduced
the ability of the public sector to act as an engine of growth. Furthermore, benefiting
from macroeconomic stability, deregulation (particularly in mining), and federal
programs to support private investment, new opportunities have risen for private
sector development. Investment has been predominately in extractive industries (90
percent), with several large mining operations. To further explore ways to enhance
the development impact of these investments, a study is now being carried out to
identify opportunities for increasing the role of local suppliers to the large mining
operations.
24. The Province also benefits from federal tax breaks on investments in agricultural
operations. Constraints to expanding such investments include limited knowledge of
water resources necessary for these irrigated operations, and a scarcity of labor,
particularly for harvesting.  The Province is committed to undertaking the
hydrological studies required to better access its water resources and to provide the
basis for adequate regulation.



ANNEX A - Page 10 of I I
25. Finally, to some extent tourism is another industry with greater possibilities.
However, a notable drawback to further development here is the dismal appearance of
public areas due to inadequate solid waste disposal. This is a municipal responsibility
and the Province is committed to promoting their participation to resolve the
situation.
26. A major concern of the Province, noted above as regards to mining, is the need to
better integrate local small and medium-size businesses in the development process.
The inflow of investment and technology contrast sharply with local entrepreneur
abilities, which have long relied on government programs and employment. The
Province is committed to enhancing the juridical and organizational framework for
local business to facilitate their development. A tax simplification progra,mn is
designed to reduce the bureaucratic requirements of operation.  For farmers, a
program of land titling is being explored to enhance the conditions for investment.
Environmental Safeguards
27. Catamarca is heavily reliant on natural resources for its economic development and
safeguarding them and mitigating environmental impacts are major concerns. For this
reason, we have already created a special unit within Provincial Directorate for Mines
under the Bank-financed Mining Development TA Project. I would seek to create a
similar unit within the Provincial Roads Directorate to provide environmental
oversight of its activities and promote the use of public hearings for proposed
investment activities. In public health, an assessment of current practices in the
public hospitals is now underway, and the contract for the decentralized hospitals
would include safeguards for the handling of hospital waste. The waste management
practices within these hospitals will be evaluated so as to assess the adequacy of the
waste destruction equipment, transportation and disposal practices of pathological
wastes, which are governed under a national law that ensures proper management of
pathological wastes, proper design and operation of pathological waster destruction
units, and proper transportation and disposal of these wastes outside the hospitals.
The National Ministry of Health would assist the province to implement this policy.
Participatory Aspects
28. Catamarca in recent years has sought to significantly increase the participation of
civil society in the province, and the Development Program (Plan Estrategico
Consensuado, December 1996) of the previous administration was developed in a
participatory manner. For the current program a social assessment was undertaken
with a general survey and focus groups including the major stakeholders.
Consultation was also undertaken with road workers in the preparation of the DVP
reform program, who helped identify problems and proposed solutions to improve
performance.
29. A specific gender analysis, which included consultation with interested parties, was
undertaken to identify possible gender issues that could be addressed by the program,



ANNEX A - Page 11 of 11
including those that could lead to negative impacts. The findings of the analysis can
be divided into two groups. First, the analysis found gender differences in the access
to social services (both education and health), and gender inequities in the
responsiveness of the social services in addressing men's and women's needs.
Second, the analysis identified the lack of mechanisms within the public sector
management to guarantee equal professional development opportunities to men and
women. The gender analysis concludes that the program provides an excellent
opportunity to both address gender issues, and enhance the effectiveness of public
sector management and social service delivery, and to this end, the program has
incorporated the actions recommended by the gender analysis.
30. Additional participatory activities would be undertaken during program
implementation. These would include presentations of the Bank's diagnosis of the
fiscal situation and social services in the Province and the program being supported,
and the convening of forums to help achieve consensus on specific reform issues,
particularly in education. Finally, greater participation by civil society would be
reinforced by providing in-time public accounts on-line.
31. At the same time, it should be recognized that some of the reforms will have adverse
affects on individuals, particularly public sector employees and teachers whose
conditions of employment may change, and organizations whose state subsidy may be
reduced. One of the costs of the reform program is in fact the compensation to be
paid for staff retrenchment. However, these social costs should be more than off-set
by the overall welfare and productivity gains to the population as a whole and the
contribution to long-term poverty reduction.
Implementation and Monitoring
32. Implementation of the program will be coordinated by staff reporting directly to me.
The Coordinator will focus on the continuous monitoring of progress in the reform
program. For implementation, I would rely on the various ministries and agencies
themselves, reinforced when needed with technical assistance. A set of monitoring
indicators has been agreed with the Bank to measure the impact of the program in
improved quality of services. These indicators, attached, are mostly short-term since
significant improvement in social indicators will take more time than the loan
contemplates. The conventional indicators or literacy rates, education performance,
mortality rates and malnutrition will continue to be collected and published by the
Province.
Sincerely
Dr. Oscar Castillo, Governor of Catamarca
(Signed: August 22, 2000)






ANNEX B
Provincial Reform Loan
CATAMARCA -Policy Matrix
PUBLIC FINANCE
Activity                   Accomplisbed                 Second Tranche                     Third Tranche
Public Finance and        The Province has agreed to a     Current expenditures        Fiscal equilibrium achieved; personnel
Administration            Resources and Expenditures Program   equivalent to current revenues. expenditures at 56% of current revenues; and
with the Bank                                                debt stock at 99% of total revenues.
Tax Administration        Law 4994 approved, which inter alia  Law 4994 regulated and tinder  Revenues from property tax increased by 25%
includes simplification of gross  implementation.           over 1997 levels.
income for small contributors and
administrative simplification for the
settlement of provincial taxes.
Privatization             Law 4978 approved for privatizing    The selection process for  The bank is either majority owned by the
100% of the Provincial Bank.     privatization is completed or   private sector or has been closed or the
the Province is complying with Province is complying with the terms of its
the terms of its privatization    privatization agreement with the Federal
agreement with the Federal    Government.
Government.
Concession of the provincial water    The selection process for the   Regulatory agency is functioning and a system
company has been publicly tendered.  privatization of the public  for subsiding access to water by the poor has
water service in the "Valle  been approved.
Central" has been completed.
Human Resources           Terms of Reference agreed for studies Studies finalized to the Bank's  The new salary scale for personnel is in effect
to implement a new personnel pay    satisfaction, and retrenchment  incorporating performance evaliations.  H
system for public employees.     program for redundant
workers has been established.
as



Activity                   Accomplished                  Second Tranche                     Third Tranche
Reform of the Provincial    A new network condition and traffic   Submit a multi-year program    The Multi-year program lhas been initiated and
Roads Directorate.        survey is underway, and a Policy  of improvements,            Conduct annual surveys of traffic and network
statement has been issued on actions   rehabilitation and    conditions are being conducted.
to improve DPV planning and      maintenance.
programming capacity
A policy statement has been issued    A plan of action has been  Pilot contracts for CREMA and routine road
outlining DPV strategy for       adopted to: pilot a CREMA   maintenance have been awarded.
modernizing its organization,    contract and an annual
improving productivity, and      maintenance contract, to
rationalizing the use of its human  define a policy to assist
resources.                       municipalities; and to prepare
a road safety and
environmental enhancement
program. Economic feasibility
studies have been completed to
separate the central workshop
from the maintenance
department as a commercially-
managed unit; create on the
basis of existing structures
(Campamentos) micro-
enterprises for routine
maintenance; and,
leasing/renting rather than
purchasing new equipment;.   __
0
0
ad



EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM
Activity                      Accomplished                      Second Tranche                    Third Tranche
Education Expenditures    An expenditure review has been completed.  Provincial public sector   Provincial public sector education
education sector personnel    sector personiel expenditures, not
expenditures budgeted at no   including transfers to privately
more than 96% of sector       administered-schools, budgeted at no
expenditures, not including   more than $94% of sector
transfers to privately        expenditures.
administered-schools.
Resource Increasing       New staffing requirements for EGB and   Ratio of student to teacher   Ratio of student to teacher positions
Allocation Efficiency     Polimodal have been agreed.             positions (Cargos) of at least 16  (Cargos) of no more thani 20 at EGB I
at EGB I and 11 levels, and 9 at   and 11 levels, and 10 at EGB Ill and
EGB III and Polimodal levels.    Polimodal levels.
Professionalizing Teaching  Agreement to reform the Teachier Work  Presentation to the provincial  Reforned New reaclher Work Rules in
Rules (Estatuto Docente).              legislature of a draft law for  effect.
reforming Teacher Work Rules
with a salary incentives for
quality, results and attendance
and a process for the selection of
school directors and teachers at
local level. Decrees to provide                                     m
for an incentive system to
reward teachers performing in                                        L
areas of higher educational risks;
to establish a decentralized
supervisorial arrangement; and
the tightening of control over                                      L
leave to reduce abuse                                               o



Rationalizing Teacher      Twenty-six of the teacher training institutes  Limit the nuimber of institutes to  Limit the number of institutes to 12.
Training Institutes         in operation in 1995 have been reduced to    12.
16.
Improving Quality_                                                   Implementation of quality       Evaluation of the impact of policies for
improvement policies: (i)      quality improvement policies and a
retention strategies and (ii)  proposal for enihancing them.
integration and assistance to low
performance groups and
remedial courses.
Decentralization at School   Proposal for administrative decentralization  Administrative decentralizationl   Administrative decentralization
Level                       at school level agreed; Advisory Councils   initiated in 10 schools whereby   initiated throughout the system.
created.                                the schools self-administer
resources to meet maintenance    Pilot plan for school autonomy
and other non-salary operational  initiated in 10 schools, wilich includes
expenses in consultation with  school level control in determining
local Advisory Councils.       salary expenses within agreed budget
envelope.
Improving the              Agreement to tighten control for teacher  Hiring of substitute teacher    Hiring of substitute teacher positions
Administration of Human  leave and for hiring a service for the      positions reduced by 25% from    reduced by 50% from 1998 levels.
Resources                   medical verification of sick leave.      1998 levels.
Private Sector             Agreement to reformulate the Private      New system for allocating      New system for allocating
Participation              Education Law, including criteria for,    contributions to the private   contributionis to the private sector fully
allocating contributions to the private sector sector initiated based on criteria  implemented for schools new to the
has been agreed.                         relating to school quality,     system.                                a
number of students and their                                           x
socioeconomic background.                                              t
ho
e



HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Program Objectives                 Accomplished                    Second Tranche                     Third Tranche
Health Expenditures             Provincial public health expenditure   Consolidated budget set at least $98   Consolidated budget of at least $98
review completed. Consolidated   million. Share the proportion of staff million. Share the proportion of staff
budget for Year 2000 set at $98  expenditures at 85%. Budget      expenditures at 80%. Budget
million. Budget includes 6% to  includes 8% to finance public health  includes at least 8% to finance public
finance public health programs,  programs, including healthi      health programs incliding health
including health promotion,      promotion, immunizations,        promotion, immunizations,
imnmimnizations, reproductive health,  reproductive health, child health,  reproductive health, child health,
child health, surveillance and  surveillance and sanitary control,    school health, environmental health,
sanitary control, surveillance and  surveillance and control of   surveillance and sanitary control,
control of communicable diseases.   communicable diseases.        surveillance and control of
communicable diseases.
Restructuring Public Health     Draft law to provide for cost     Law for cost recovery has been   Law for cost recovery is being
Delivery                        recovery by public hospitals of   approved and is being applied in San  applied in public hiospitals
services rendered to insured patients.  Juan Bautista and Niffos hospitals,    accounting for at least 70% of
which are billing 60% of insured  expenditures. These hospitals are
patients and recovering at least half   billing at least 80% of insured
of this amount. Management       patients and recovering at least 60%
contracts with performance in    of billings. Separate management
efficiency, quality and client   contracts have been entered into with
services, and costing indicators have  hospitals accounting for at least 50%
been entered into and are being  of provincial public hospital
implemented in these two hospitals.  expenditures.
oq
0
1-n
0
l-h
0'



Provincial health care benefits are  Provincial health care benefits are
being provided to uninsured poor   being provided to uiinsured poor
residents in at least five of the  residents in at least ten of the
provinces 12 health zones.         provinces 12 health zones.
Health Financing Entities         Study and reconversion plan of the    Automatic deduction of all       OSEP has attained an operational
provincial social security entity  contributions of the state's municipal  balance in its finances.
(OSEP).                            employees and the beneficiaries of
the Provincial Social Security.
bd
I
w
eQ
tD
0%
0'



ANNEX C
Catamarca: Gender Matrix Action Plan.
Public Administration And Finance Reform
Human Resource            Training Program          Provide equal training opportunLities in   Intioduice a gender approach into Training Program TOR
Administration Reform                               the access and to benefit froni to bolh    by addiessinig the following:
female and male employees.             Esltablish an inventory of staff's education, experience
and skills by gender.
* Address main constraints of both male and female staff
to access to training (time, prerequisite skills, etc).
* Introduce the gender variable in the monitoring and
evaluation system, and design policies accordingly.
New Salary Scale          Guarantee an equal payment system to   - Introduce the variable gender in personnel information
incorporating Merit-Based   female and male staff.            management system.
Pay                                                            - Establish pay reviews that evaluate the gender gap and
define a strategy to reduce the gap.
- Establish participatory consultations to review gender
impact of assumption and values underlying the merit-
based system such as: (i) time spent in the workplace as
synonymous of work commitment (ii) preference for
work practices that favor masculine roles and valies-
e.g., entrepreneurialism and individual work; and (iii)
identify gender differentiated values on monetary and
non-pecuniary rewards.
Performance Contracts     Guarantee that the implementation of    - Review the differences in the conditions of male and
performance contracts would generate   female staff to fulfill the objectives -i.e., decision-power
equal opportunities and workloads to    capacity, resource-availability, time constraints, specific
male and female staff.              skills, etc.
- Design indicators that reftlect the contribution of both
female and male staff's skills.
- Integrate the gender differentiated impact of implicit
management style and work practice models in
performrance contracts.
Privatization and         Outsourcing of particular    Guarantee equal opportunities for both   - Identify men's and women's constraints in establishhig
Outsourcing               services.                  men and women in the creation of    an enterprise (including gender differences on
entrepreneur opportutnities.        perceptions in benefits and risks), and address them by
tailoring training to gender needs.
Education Reform
Improving Efficiency and  Implementation of          Eliminate the gender gap on dropout  - Develop dropout indicators by gender.
Quality                   retention strategies.     rates, while addressing both boys' and    - Identify the specific causes or dropout rates of female  OQD
girls' problems in dropout.         and male students, and develop a retention plan            m
accordingly.
- Establish indicators that differentiate the progress in the
reduction of both boys' and girls' dropout rates.



Integration and assistance   Improve boys higher repetition rates,    - Develop performance indicators (repetition and
to low performance groups  particularly in public schools, while  achievement score) by gender.
and remedial courses.      also addressing particular causes for  - Identify the specific causes or repetition rates of female
girls' repetition.                    and male students, and develop a remedial plan
accordingly.
- Establish indicators that differentiate the progress in the
reduction of both boys' and girls' repetition rates.
Reform of Teacher Statute  Improve women's position in the       - Integrate a participatory approach, in which female
teaching profession.                  teachers are consulted, into the design and
implementation of the new Teacher Statute.
- Create participatory mechanisms that guarantee female
teachers' voice regarding professional development
issues.
Conversion of the Teacher    - Merge teachers' training    - Enhance women's and men's future    - Invest the savings of the merging of teacher training
Training System             plans.                     career opportunities in teaching.     institutes and gains in efficiency in improving teachers'
- Freeze vacancies for EGB   - Increase women's options for      training curriculum, and in developing profitable
I and 11.                  tertiary education opportunities in   technical careers.
- Improve the contents of    addition to teaching.               - Establish a communication campaign to encourage the
the new syllabi.                                                 participation of women in non-traditional careers.
Healtht Reform
Improving the efficiency    Develop an accreditation   Guarantee same quality level in health    - Establish indicators that measure the both men's and
and quality of health      system for enhancing        service delivery for both men and     women's perceptions of quality of services and use them
financing and delivery.     quality in services.       women.                                as an input for quality-enhanceinent strategies.
- Accreditation system should cover health services
targeted to both female and male population.
Rationalization of primary   Reduce intra-gender differences in  - Establish morbidity and mortality records by region,
medical care.              access to health care.                NBI and sex to identify intra-gender gap on access to
health care.
- Identify the existence of time constraints or gender-
cultural stereotypes that prevent the access to services by
the female and male population.
- Develop a strategy to address gender differentiated
constraints to access to health are.
Development and funding   - Reduce women's mortality and         - Identify main causes of reproductive health needs of
of special programs that   morbidity related to peri-natal       both men and women and define an action plan that
would include: (i) a       complications.                        respond to both female and male needs, including gender     x
reproductive health        - Reduce men's mortality and          differentiated health outcome targets. ,
program; and, (ii) a       morbidity due to violent-related events.  - Integrate both women and men in reproductive health
program to control external                                      programs.
injuries caused by                                               - Design preventive actions with other public sector       eo
accidents.                                                       organization to address men's main causes of death by       m
accidents.
______________________                                                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ensuring Equity by        (i) a compulsory assistance  Guarantee that the compulsory    - Analyze and integrate into the lhealth assislance plan,
providing the poor        plan; (ii) free choice of the  assistance plan addresses both men's  men's and women's specific health risks.
uninsured with health     caregiver within the public  and women's health risks.        - Analyze whether the supply of services addresses both
insurance                 network and eventually for  - Guarantee that both female and male  miemi's and women's health nieeds and define a strategy to
selected services provided   population have the same degree of  guarantee both male and female are receiving adequate
by the private sector; and,   choice, given their differences in the    hicalth coverage.
(iii) a service to assist  epidemiological profile.           Establish a permanent surveillance system by gender.
customers.
Establish a demand       - Guarantee that both female and male   - Introduce a gender approach in the identification and
identification system with   population have the opportunity to be    enrollment process of the eligible population for health
enrollment.              included in the identification system.    insurance.
x
0D
H:
0'






ANNEX D
Page 1 of 1
Documents in the Project File
Gender Analysis
Health Sector Expenditure Review
Education Sector Expenditure Review
Provincial Roads Program
Performance Contracting in Catamarca Province
Social Assessment
Water
Municipal Governments
Improvements in Tax Administration
Technical Assistance
Monitoring Indicators



CAS Annex 66 - Argentina
Status of Bank Grotip Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed
Projects
Difference Between
Board                                                Last PSR                                                    Expected and Actual
Date                                            Supervision Rating           Original Amount In USS Millions      Disbursementsv
Fiscal                                       eeomn     peMsatn
Year  Active Projects                      Development Imnlementation      IBRD        IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig. Frm Rev'd
Ojb ectives   Progress
1987    P005968   SEGBA V                         U            U              276          0          0    35.89     35.89         0
1991    P005977   WTR SUPPLY II                   S            S              100          0         36      9.65    45.65      9.65
1993    P006003   RD MAINT & REHAB SCT           HS            [IS            340          0          0    13.76     13.27         0
1993    P008036   YACYRETAII                      l            U                0          0          0        0         0         0
1995    P005992   AR-SECONDARY ED I               S            S              190          0         20    43.67    63.87      36.51
1995   P008060   MUNIC DEVT II                   HS            HS             210          0          0   103.74   -34.25          0
1995   POOB018   PROVDEVTII                       S            HS             225          0          0   103.46      -4.03        0
1996   P045687   AR-HEALTH INSURANCE TA           S            S               25          0          0      1.36     1.36         0
1998    P034091   AR-HIGHER ED. REFORM            S            S              165          0          0    76.54    74.54      65.54
1996   P006030   AR-PROV. HEALTH SECTOR           S            S             101.4         0          0    55.57    50.37          0
1998    P006057   AR-SECONDARY ED.2               S            S             115.5         0          0    72.93    57.83          0
1996   P038883   ENT.EXPORT DV.                   S            S                0          0          0        0         0         0
1996   P006040   FORESTRY/DV                      S            S               18          0          0      8.57     1.67         0
1996   P006055   MINING SCTR DEVT                HS            HS              30          0          0      2.55     0.16         0
1998   P037049   PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                S            S               16          0        5.5      7.57    12.06         0
1997   P043418   AR-AIDS AND STD CONTROL          S            S               15          0          0       3.5     1.25         0
1997   P006059   AR-MATERNAL & CHILD HLTH         S            HS             100          0          0    64.67     -3.33         0
1997   P039584   B.A.URBY.TSP                     S            S              200          0          0   145.24    55.24          0
1997   P006052   FLOOD PROTECTION                 S            S              200          0          0   171.82    71.83       4.82
1997   P040808   N.FOREST/PROTC                   S            S              19.6         0          0    14.57    -1.43          0
1997   P046821   PENSION TA                       U            U               20          0          0     8.81      6.37         0 o
1997   P006010   PROVAGDEVTI                      S            S              125          0          0   117.29    22.81          0
1997   P005980   PROV ROADS                       S            U              300          0          0   275.83   143.83          0  m
1998   P050714   AR-SECONDARY EDUCATION           S            S              119          0          0    40.12    36.57          0   1
1998    P049289   AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 3          S            S              284          0          0      111       111         0  p
1998    P055935   EL NINO EMERGENCY               S            S               42          0          0    35.59    35.59       6.09  t3
1998   P055477   MINING TA                        S            S              39.5         0          0    17.56    17.56          0  ,
1998   P050713   MODEL COURT DEV.                 U            S                5          0          0     4.56      3.16         0  o
1998    P052590   NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT             S            S              450          0          0   311.49   176.24         0  '-h
1998    P006050   POLLUTION MGT.                  S            S               18          0          0      17.7     8.79        0 o
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appralsal.



CAB Annex 98 - Argentina
Status of Bank Group Operatons (Operations Portfollo)
Closed  4
Projects
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                    Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                            Supervision Rating          Orginal Amount In USS Millions       Disbursements A
Fiscal                                       g RNt tamntio
Year  Active Projects                      Development Imolementton        IBRO        IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
Objtctlves    Progress
1998    P051695   PROV REF II - RIO NEGRO        U             U               75         0          0      25.0     75.0         0
1998   P051694   PROV REF II - SAN JUAN          S             U               50         0          0       15        50         0
1998    P006041   SMALL FARMER DV.               S             S               75         0          0    45.21     17.77      9.21
1999    P058526   AR-DRUG PREVENTION (LIL)       S             S             4.75         0          0       4.7     0.83         0
1999   P008058   AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION 4          S             S            90.75         0          0    76.32      2.66         0
1999    P057449   ARG YEAR 2000                  U             U             30.3         0          0    27.45      5.45         0
1999   P006043   RENEW.ENERGY R.MKTS             S             S               30         0          0      29.2       1.5        0
1999   P055461   SOC&FISC NTL ID SYS             HS            S               10         0          0      7.25     1.75         0
1999   P062992   SPEC REPURCHASE                 S             S           505.05         0          0      500         0         0
1999   P062991   SPECIAL SAL (SSAL)              S             S          2525.25         0        250      500       750         0
1999    P006046   WATER SCTR RFRM                S             S               30         0          0       30       4.5         0
2000   P063388   AR-HEALTH INSURANCE FOR         S             S              4.9         0          0       4.9      0.5         0
2000    P055482   AR-PUB. HLTH. SURV. & DISE     S             S             52.5         0          0      52.5        1         0
TOTAL                                                   7230.4          0      311.5  3192.54  1914.63    131.82
U.
09
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.






Annex F - Page 1 of 2
Argentina at a glance
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Argentina   & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      36.6      509       573                LUfe expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas nethod, US$)                  7,600     3,840    4,900
GNP (Atlas nethod, US$ billions)                    277.9     1,955     2,811                      T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (W.)                                       1.3       1.6       1.4    /G                               G
Laborforce (%)                                        2.1       2.5       2.1     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest Year available. 1993i99)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  18        .
Urban population (% of total population)              90        75        76
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       73        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              19        31        27
Child malnutntion (% of chikiren under 5)              2          a        7                Aocess to safe water
Aocess to improved water source (% of population)     65        75        78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   3        12        10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  11t     113       109        -     Argentina
Male                                               111         ..        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             111
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                          69.3    76.6      298.1    282.8
Gross domestc investmenVGDP                 25.9    15.5       19.9      19.1                    Trade
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP                6.5    13.1       10.4       9.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  26.0    22.0       17.4      17.4
Gross national savingslGDP                  25.2    13.6       15.1      14.8
Current account balanceIGDP                 -0.8    -1.7       -4.8      -4.3     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        1.4      Z0        2.4       2.8     Sangs                       Investment
Total debtVGDP                              30.2    85.6       47.1      51.2     Sng                         I   te
Total debt service/exborts                  22.7    36.4       52.8      69.6
Present value of detWGDP                       .       ..      50.5
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    410.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                -0.4      5.0      3.9      -3.1       3.8              Argehona
GNP per capita                     -2.4      4.1      2.4      -4.1       2.9         -     Upper-middl-incofm group
Exports of goods and services       2.5      8.9    10.1       -1.1       4.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998     1999      Growth of investment and GDP%)
(% of GDP)
Agnculture                                   7.8      9.6       5.7       4.6      0 T
Industry                                    44.0    42.3       28.7      28.3    [ o
Manufacturing                             32.7    30.9        19.1     18.2 o
Services                                    48.2    48.0       65.6      67.1   i.ro     S4         ss   97   s
Prvate consumption                          63.0    73.5       70.7      69.7    *20
General goverrnmentconsumpton               11.0      4.5      11.9      12.9                   GDI    -GDP
Imporisof goods and services                 6.3      6.6      12.9      11.5
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999     Growth of expesu  and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  0.5      4.0      10.3      -0.5    30
Industry                                    -1.2      4.6       3.2      -5.1
Manufacturng                               -0.9     3.6       1.6      -6.9    10
Services                                     0.5      5.0       4.7      -1.4     _r      _    ____
Private consumption                           ..      3.8      12.1      -4.2            04  y      is   97   9a
General government consumption                ..      1.3      -1.1       1.2      -
Gross domestic investment                   -4.6      9.3       6.6      -7.6   1-20 -
Imports of goods and services               -5.4    19.6        8.4    -11.2                  Expors          Impons
Gross national product                      -1.0      5.4       3.5      -3.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country fin bold) compared with its incrome-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex F - Page 2 of 2
Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Donresfc prices                             1979    1989       1998     1999      InflationCAl
(% change)                                                                        5T
Consumer prices                            159.5  3,066.3       0.9      -1.2   110
Implicit GDP deflator                      147.4  3,057.6      -2.0      -2.2
Govensment finance                       
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      9     9     96
Current revenue                              8.0    15.5       18.8      19.3
Current budget balance                       3.7    -3.5       -0.3      -1.5                G    deDator   CPI
Overal surplus/defict                        -1.4    -6.3      -1.4      -1.7                 GDP1deflator _____CPI
TRADE
1979    19S9      1998      1999            andimportlvel(USmill.)
(USS frosions)
Total exports (fob)                            *    9,656    26,441    23,315    135000
Food                                          '   1,016      3,056    2,428     30000 T
Meat                                                716       836       653    T2000
Manufactures                                 ..   3,186    17,387   15,082    ioooo
Total imports (cit)                            *-   4,230    31,404   25,538      i sooo
Food                                                                    466    10
Fuel and energy                              ..    389        852       674     soo
Capitalgoods                                 ..   1,450    15,649   11,909
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        92       80            93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                     ..       ..        92       85                  Exports     *IrNofu
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      ..       101       94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ rralllons)                             1979    1989       1998     1999    i Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                  9,176   11,759    31,123   27,758      o
Imports of goods and services              8,773    6,254    38,568   32,557
Resource balance                             403    5,505    -7,445    -4,799
Net income                                  -973  -6,818  -7,335  -7,847                       "      III
Net current transfers                         26        8       388      394      3
Current account balance                     -644   -1,305   -14,392  -12,252    t4
Financing items (net)                         ,,    107    10,954   11,051         t
Chanes in net reserves                        ..   1,198      3,438     1,201    .6
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USS mrvlkons)         ..  10,814    24,906   28.407
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWS$)            2.79E-8  4.23E-2       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(USS niffions)                              1979    1989       1998     19        CompositIon of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      20,942   65,618   140,489  144,657
I1RD                                       367    2,281     7,417     9,891
IDA                                          0        0         0        0           G630.956      A: 7417C: 5,442
Totaldebtservire                           2.251    4,385    19,690   23,571
IBRO                                        59      417       725      469
IDA                                          0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             -2       54         6        6
Official creditors                         233      660     2,072     1,538
Private creditors                        4,334    -732    13,423    2,882
Foreigndirectinvestment                    206    1,028     4,360    11,120                  .
Portfolio equity                             0        8    -2,031    -2,093                           F: 97,559
World Bank program
Commitments                                 96       35     3,815      936      A- iBRD                    E-Bilateral
Disburements                                39      316     2,029    2,071      B - Dk   D - Other mjllateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        24      221       350      417      C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Netflows                                    15       96     1,678     1.653
Interest payments                           36      196       375      426
Net transfers                              -21    -101      1,304     1,228
LCC7



Annex G - Page 1 of 19
PROVINCIAL REVENUE-SHARING
A. BRIEF HISTORY
1.    During the period immediately following the first national Constitution of 1853,
up until 1934, the provinces were largely independent in the collection of their own
revenues. 1 The provinces had full autonomy to levy any type of tax, except external
trade, which was reserved for the federal govermment. Up until the debt crisis of the
1890s, the situation could be generalized as: (1) a federal government financing itself
from taxes on international trade; and (2) provincial governments financing themselves
primarily from taxes on real estate and inheritances. Over the period 1890 to 1935,
continued problems with international trade motivated the central government to assume
a greater share of tax room from the provinces, in terms of taxes on domestic economic
activity. In parallel, discretionary transfers to the provinces grew to nearly 12 percent of
provincial expenditures by the end of this period. Federal and provincial excise taxes
existed side-by-side, with the federal government raising an increasing share of these
revenues.
2.     The first system of centralized tax collection and revenue-sharing was
implemented over the period 1935 to 1947. Excise taxes were unified at the federal level,
and federal profits and sales taxes were created. The revenues from the sales and profits
tax was to be shared between the federal government and the 14 provinces (plus the
federal capital), with 82.5 percent remaining with the federal government and 17.5
percent to the provinces. The distribution across provinces was based on four factors: (1)
30 percent according to population; (2) 30 percent in proportion to each province's
expenditures; (3) 30 percent in proportion to each province's own-source revenues; and
(4) 10 percent in proportion to the amount of federal sales tax collected in each
jurisdiction. During this period, total transfers to the provinces financed less than 30
percent of provincial expenditures. Meanwhile, excise taxes had their own tax-sharing
arrangements, mainly following historical revenue levels in each province.
3.    The reform of 1947 shifted the primary distribution in favor of the provinces, with
their share increasing to 21 percent and the federal share declining to 79 percent. For the
distribution of resources across provinces, the reform subtracted a small percentage off
each of the above four indicators in order to create a fifth indicator: the inverse of
population, with a 9.58 percent weight. During the early 1950s, the share of excise taxes
going to the provinces also increased, and the criteria for distribution across provinces
became largely based on population (78 percent) and provincial production of the
particular taxable good (20 percent).
This annex is based largely on Argentina: Provincial Tax and Revenue-Sharing Reform, June, 1999 (green cover),
Report No. 19395-AR. See also Annex 2 of Argentina: Provincial Finances Study, and Annex I of Hacia Una Nueva
Organizacion del Federalismo Fiscal en la Argentina, FIEL, 1993.



Annex G - Page 2 of 19
4.     The reform of 1959 further consolidated the revenue-sharing system to include
most federal taxes. It also increased the provincial share of the total, and it established
new criteria for the distribution across provinces. Now the distribution would be based
on the following four factors: (1) 25 percent according to provincial own-source
revenues; (2) 25 percent according to provincial expenditures; (3) 25 percent according to
population; and (4) 25 percent in equal amounts for every province.
5.    In 1967 the federal government managed to increase its share of total revenue-
sharing as part of a fiscal adjustment effort. The fiscal adjustment program began to
unravel in the early seventies, and the federal government increased dramatically the
amount of discretionary transfers to the provinces - reaching a level equivalent to 60
percent of revenue-sharing.2
6.     Reminiscent of the situation today, the reform of 1973 was inspired by the desire
to increase provincial financial independence and simplify the system of transfers. The
Law 20.221 created a system whereby all national taxes would enter the revenue-sharing
pool, with exception of external trade, some excise taxes and 15 percent of automobile
taxes.3 Shared revenues would be divided 48.5 percent to the Central Government
(responsible in those days for MCBA and the territory of Tierra del Fuego), 48.5 percent
to the provinces, and 3 percent to a Regional Development Fund (established for
financing public works). A rational formula for the distribution across provinces was
introduced: 65 percent based on population, 25 percent based on a measure of the
provinces' "development gap", and 10 percent on a measure of low population density.
A province's development gap was measured by taking an average of three indicators:
housing quality, education level of the population and per capita automobile ownership.
In addition to these dramatic reforms in the distribution across provinces, the reform led
to an increased provincial share of the revenue-sharing pool.
7.    In the early to mid- I 980s, a combination of the debt crisis, political crisis, re-
structuing of the tax system4 and eventually, hyperinflation resulted in the gradual
collapse of the entire revenue-sharing apparatus. Over the period 1985 to 1987, no
coparticipation law was in effect, and federal transfers became purely discretionary.
Adding to the lack of transparency, the macro-economy was entering a period of
extremely high inflation, bordering on hyperinflation, making it even more difficult to
trace real resource flows.
8.    In 1988, Law 23.548 and a series of more specific laws re-created a general
system of revenue-sharing and sectoral tax-sharing programs. This new set of laws ended
the brief period of purely discretionary transfers; however, it also locked in Vlace the
existing pattern of transfers across provinces - after a series of negotiations. The general
coparticipation pool was comprised of the revenues from federal VAT, income and non-
2 FIEL (1993), page 142.
3Argentina: Provincial Finances Study, page 44.
4 It is interesting to note that the restructuring of the tax system in 1980 was based on the model of reducing high
payroll taxes (even higher in that era, compared to today) and generalizing the VAT.
See Saiegh and Tommasi (1998) for an historical description, as well as an interesting analysis of the politics
involved.



Annex G - Page 3 of 19
fuel excise taxes. Other specific laws established funds for financing investments in
particular sectors, like housing, roads and rural electricity development. Modifications in
the system in the early and mid-1 990s established "pre-coparticipations"; that is, partial
earmarking of particular tax revenues to address a particular problem, before those tax
revenues entered the coparticipation pool.6 One example is the 10 percent deviation of
the income tax (with a maximum of $650 million per year) to the Province of Buenos
Aires for financing social programs in the poor suburbs surrounding the federal capital.
Another example, is the 20 percent deviation of the income tax for financing the national
social security system (facing high transition costs, post-reform).
9.     The final result of this process is a system that is difficult to follow, as shown in
the diagram below. In general terms, the left-hand side of the diagram displays that the
main federal taxes, VAT and Income tax feed the general coparticipation pool after
several pre-coparticipations. On the right-hand side of the diagram, one can trace the
sector-specific programs, financed by tax-sharing of fuels taxes, and these transfers are
tied to public works in sectors like housing, roads, electricity development and general
infrastructure. At the bottom of the diagram, one sees that payroll taxes are earmarked
for social security, and social security receives some "pre-coparticipation" earmarking of
the income, fuels and VAT taxes. Total budgetary transfers to the provinces were $18.3
billion in 1998,7 just under 6 percent of GDP, and financing about 56 percent of total
provincial government expenditures. Aside from the three or four largest provinces, the
rest of the provinces depend on transfers for 70 to 90 percent of their revenues. About 70
percent of these transfers are unconditional general coparticipation. The rest are
earmarked for the special programs mentioned above. It should be noted that some of the
confusion in the system may be attributed to efforts to adapt a highly inflexible system of
revenue-sharing to an Argentine public sector that undertook tremendous structural
reforms over the last decade: privatization, the final stages of decentralization of
secondary education and health, social security reform, re-construction of tax
administrations at the federal and provincial level, and re-structuring of the public
administration at both federal and provincial levels.
6 As documented in Provincial Finances Study, Annex I and Provincial Finances Update, 1997 (intemal Bank report).
Also, see Schwartz and Liuksila (1997), "Argentina" in Fiscal Federalism: in Theory and in Practice.
7 Using ch data, as reported in the "national public sector accounts", Boletin Fiscal, 4h Quarter, 1998, Table 2.



Annex G - Page 4 of 19
Figure 1: General Revenue-Sharing System
10.    Total transfers per capita and total revenues per capita vary dramatically. In terms
of transfers per capita, there is a nine-fold difference between the highest and lowest
provinces (even excluding the City of Buenos Aires). In addition, total transfers per
capita bear little resemblance to provincial GDP per capita. The chart below has the
provinces organized in descending level of provincial value-added per capita. The series
have been transformed into indices relative to the national average. It is interesting to
note that the current system of transfers. in some cases, appears to be re-distributive in
the "wrong" direction: favoring rich provM clies on the left-hand-side of the figure. Then
there are some surprising spikes in transfers per capita in the middle of the scale, and
only one poor province on the right-hand side that receives more than the average level of
transfers per capita. A simple regression actually yields a positive relationship between
transfers per capita and value-added per capita, although it is not statistically significant
at traditional confidence levels. Finally, note how total revenues per capita largely follow
total transfers per capita, with the notable exception of the City of Buenos Aires (the
richest and most fiscally independent jurisdiction).
I,h  lilt.l.G* ORtl                                                                           OUARA  7
YEAR 1997
ASSIGNMENT OF FEDERAL TAX REVENUES
FORMATION OF THE REVENUE-SHARING POOLS
INCOME TAX     j Mnicn | PROVINCEOFBS.AS.   i__                          C     1Elc.Enry_Tgl
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40%
l   _   7 1-4          r    > ~~~~~~~~E.esscoYer665 rrb. to othe pnavre    5
0 f''-S~~~~~~~~1 $                                   - ^
4-elacclordng io  pat ceceA
Mg'.,                  O~~~~~~~~~~~_THER THAN BS AS                      09
__-__I_t  PRO'/ItItwEo :[ r --, 4 *d21            FUELS
_   EeM!          _   6 Mikn p-rTMont in 1997 See G,aine
s ( a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn.x     Inconl rax w                                  '............1%  ...  Solvent&
Fund .          S& prdud
EXCISE                         .                                                     comp,oIsed ofs4
SHARED TAXES 1 ,4      futs                                             *    7.4% L      aut othatO
M12t,   c.limn              9 %  21 %
Source: Aenine                                onthins  1997of Intxerw.T-
. . i 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5%  s
1 |AS SETS TAX                                                                V -nd l   |
e  VAt    hi{      - -    __   E      X       ~~~~~~~~FUELS  _ i
Source: A rgentine Ministry of Internor



Annex G - Page 5 of 19
Figure 2: Provincial Value-Added per Capita, Transfers per Capita and Total Revenues per Capita
300
250
200
* Total Transfers per capita 
O Total Revenues per capita
* Value-dedpraita
L                 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .



Annex G - Page 6 of 19
B. KEY PROBLEMS TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE REFORMS
11.   Given the country's large geographic area and its diverse socioeconomic
conditions, the high degree of decentralization of expenditure responsibilities seems
natural. There have been some proposals to increase the degree of decentralization of
expenditure responsibilities in Argentina - for example, turning the federal universities
into provincial universities and creating a greater role for municipalities.8 For the
purposes of this discussion, however, the current distribution of expenditure
responsibilities will be taken as an historical fact.9 The focus here is on the financing
side of the decentralization issue.
12.   Like internediate level governments in most federations, the Argentine provinces
finance their expenditures through a mix of own tax revenues, non-tax revenue and
transfers from the federal government. When these levels of revenues are not sufficient,
they borrow. either through formal contracts with Banks, voluntary bond issues, running
arrears in payments to suppliers and employees, or involuntary bond issues to consolidate
informal debts.
13.    'Coparticipation7. The current system of "coparticipation", as it is known in
Argentina, is a complex mix of one large revenue-sharing pool (generating $10.7 billion
or about one-third of provincial current revenues in 1998) and a series of tax-sharing
programs. Many of the latter, although distributed automatically, are earmarked legally
for financing specific sectoral expenditures, like housing projects or home mortgages
(FONAVI -- $900 million) or providing electricity service to remote, rural areas
(FEDEI). There are a number of discretionary transfers, as well: the special national
treasury transfers (ATNs -- $538 million) as well as some specific social sector assistance
programs and investment programs. Total budgetary transfers to the provinces were
$18.3 billion in 1998,10 just under 6 percent of GDP, and financing about 56 percent of
total provincial government expenditures. Aside from the three or four largest provinces,
the rest of the provinces depend on transfers for 70 to 90 percent of their revenues.
14.   The distribution of the general revenue-sharing fund is according to percentages
that were fixed in place by a 1988 law, and these percentages were determined by
historical patterns and political debate (see chapter 2). Some of the smaller sectoral
programs follow fairly reasonable need-based criteria, while others do not. The final
result is a large diversity in transfers per capita -- a nine-fold difference in total transfers
per capita for the highest and lowest provinces. This dispersion is difficult to justify in
terms of needs and/or cost differentials. The 1994 Constitutional Reform called on
s See FIEL, Hacia Una Nueva Organizacion del Federalismo Fiscal en la Argentina,
1993.
9 These broader issues were examined in World Bank, Argentina: Provincial Finances
Study, 1996.
10 Using cash data, as reported in the "national public sector accounts", Boletin Fiscal, 4th
Quarter, 1998, Table 2.



Annex G -Page 7 ofl9
Congress to enact a new "coparticipation" law by the end of 1996. Congress later
extended this deadline by two years, and now it has been delayed again.
15.   A series of Bank reports on provincial finances in Argentina dating back to 1989
analyzed problems in the system of provincial finances. A number of consensus views
have emerged from this work, Argentine academic papers, and most significantly, in
proposals advanced by the previous administration. Three problems that need to be
addressed by any reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations are: (1) simplify the
complicated multiple tax-sharing/revenue-sharing system, consolidating most programs
into one fund, to improve transparency; (2) introduce a rational formula -- almost any
rational formula -- for distributing these resources across provinces; and (3) increase the
degree of correspondence between provincial tax payer and the provincial services he/she
receives.
16.   Provincial Tax Reform and "Tax Decentralization." The third key problem to be
addressed is the lack of correspondence between provincial tax payer and provincial
recipient of public services. The only two ways to accomplish this (assuming a fixed
assignment of expenditure responsibilities) is to either increase the share of provincial
revenues raised by provincial own taxes or make the distribution of revenue-sharing
across provinces based largely on the origin of where federal taxes are collected - or
some combination of these two approaches. The advantage of decentralizing additional
tax powers to the provinces is that it would give the provinces the ability to raise
revenues at the margin (or reduce revenues) by changing the provincial tax rate.
Demands by the provincial population for increased levels of government expenditures
could be met, and financed through own tax revenues. Similarly, in the absence of
discretionary federal transfers at the margin, political leaders would need to face the local
taxpayer with the bill any time they wish to increase expenditures at the margin (or
present a future bill, in the form of increased indebtedness).
17.   In addition, the main own-source revenue of provincial governments is the gross
receipts (ingresos brutos) tax. This is a traditional "turnover" sales tax applied to the sale
of goods at all stages of production - without crediting producers for the tax paid on
inputs, as would occur under a VAT. The result is that the incidence of this tax
accumulates over the stages of production, providing an incentive for companies to
integrate vertically, and leading to differential final tax rates on consumer goods,
depending upon the degree of vertical integration involved in the production of those
goods. The government and the provinces have already recognized the need to change
this tax to a more efficient form of sales taxation. One possibility being discussed would
be for developing a provincial VAT, which in parallel to the federal VAT, could provide
a buoyant and efficient source of tax revenues. This tax instrument could first be used to
substitute for the gross receipts tax, but it may be powerful enough to be used for the
additional decentralization of tax powers referred to in the preceding paragraph.
C. FEDERALISM PRINCIPLES
18.   In order to advance in the reform agenda, federal and provincial authorities will
need to agree on the basic principles that should guide the restructuring of provincial



Annex G - Page 8 of 19
finances in the context of a country that has undergone a period of rapid economic reform
and a radical revision of the role of the state. The country has embarked on a more
market-based development path, following the gradual accumulation of both human and
physical capital. " I The public sector now has a much more focused role in the former
rather than in the latter, as large government owned enterprises have been privatized and
grandiose public investment schemes abandoned. The provinces are the key players in
the new Argentine public sector, given that they are the primary providers of public
education and health services. The provinces need a reliable source of finance for these
programs, but they need to finance these programs in a way that does not create excessive
burdens on a private sector that is now competing in relatively open markets.'2
19.   Argentina is also a country with persistent regional inequalities in income and in
the general level of economic development. The federal government retains
responsibility for a variety of social safety net programs, and those programs that are
well-targeted to the poor naturally will follow a regional distribution of spending that is
in line with the regional distribution of poverty. In addition, provinces with poorer than
average populations generally are disadvantaged from the point of view of public
finances: on the revenue side, because of their below average tax bases, and on the
expenditure side, since local populations may be more dependent on publicly provided
services compared to other provinces. Federal to provincial transfers that attempt to
correct for these public finance problems likely will be a part of Argentine federalism in
the future. How to determine the appropriate level and distribution of these transfers is
not a trivial task.
20.   In concrete terms, the Argentine people and their elected government officials
need to ask basic questions about who should pay for whose services. For example,
should an accountant in C6rdoba pay for part of a policeman's salary in Chaco? If not,
would it be more acceptable if the Cordobes' contribution were to finance a primary
school teacher's salary, or a young Chaqueno child's medical treatment? These are the
real issues that come into play with any system of intergovernmental transfers.
D. TAx SOURCES FOR REVENUE-SHARING: STREAMLINING THE SYSTEM
21.   The first step for simplifying the system, allowing for greater clarity of resource
allocation, would be to consolidate the various tax-sharing arrangements, "pre-
coparticipations," and coparticipation into one revenue-sharing pool. This would make it
easier to follow the sources of provincial revenue, and facilitate the provincial budget-
setting process in coordination with federal authorities. Under the current system,
gradual shifts occur in the distribution of transfers across provinces, for example, as oil
prices fluctuate and consequently fuels tax revenues, since some provinces receive a
relatively greater share of their transfers via the sectoral programs financed from fuels tax
" l See Argentina: Second Generation Reforms for a broader discussion of these issues.
12 Courchene (1998) provides a captivating discussion on the evolution of Canadian
federalism and its economic progress. This will be discussed in the Argentine context in
more detail later.



Annex G - Page 9 of 19
revenues. With one pool, it would be easier for the provinces and federal government to
work together on estimates of the projected size of the pool for the upcoming year. It
would also clarify the division of resources between federal and provincial levels, and put
an end to the perverse incentives for federal officials to amplify or improve
administration of particular taxes that are shared with the provinces at a lower rate than
other taxes.'3
Figure 3: Streamlined Revenue-Sharing System
VAT, Income, Assets and Payroll Taxes
Fuels and other Excise Taxes
i
22.    One idea that has emerged is to set up a single fund where all major federal taxes
feed the revenue-sharing pool: VAT, personal income, corporate income, payroll taxes
and fuels taxes and other excise taxes. 4 The idea would be to convert the "battleground"
map presented in the previous section into the simplified map below. One noteworthy
issue is the inclusion of payroll taxes. Since the social security reform of 1994, employee
payroll contributions accrue to either a private pension fund, or the public pension fund,
depending upon the choice of each worker. The employer contributions all go to the
public social security system to partially finance current pensioners and to finance future
pensioners, all of whom will receive a basic minimum pension from the government. As
an increasing share of workers choose the private pillar, the system is moving towards
fully-funded private pensions with the addition of a minimum public income support
program for retired people. During the transition to this system, there is a significant
deficit to the public social security fund (about 2 percent of GDP)15, since there are
millions of current retirees from the old pay-as-you-go system. This-deficit must be
financed from general federal revenues, so from this point of view, it makes sense to
include payroll taxes in the revenue-sharing program and consider the federal burden
with the social security system in the primary distribution; that is, the division of
3 This argument also was made in the Provincial Finances Study and the Fiscal Dimension of the Convertibility Plan.
14 The only exceptions would be import duties (which are relatively small 0.8% of GDP and declining over time) and a
few other minor taxes ( about 0.5% of GDP).
15 See Chapter 2, Section A, of Argentina: the Fiscal Dimension of the Convertibility Plan.



Annex G - Page 10 of 19
revenue-sharing between federal and provincial levels of government (more on this in the
next section). Even in terms of the future, when the "transition deficit" disappears, the
federal pension program will be largely a minimum income support program for the
elderly, and it is not clear that such a program should be financed from earmarked payroll
tax revenues. Lowering payroll taxes, as a way to reduce distortions in labor markets and
improve competitiveness, is firmly on the reform agenda in Argentina, with initial
reductions implemented this year.
23.    Strearnlining and macro-economic policy. General principles of fiscal federalism
(Musgrave, 1959 and Oates, 1972) state that macroeconomic stabilization should remain
a federal government function. In Argentina, due to the currency board arrangement,
macroeconomic policy is, for the most part, fiscal policy.16 In any federation with some
degree of decentralization, by definition, the federal government does not have full
control over fiscal policy. Control is constrained by the fact that revenues from federally
collected taxes are shared with sub-national governments, as these "federal" revenues are
automatically spent, via transfers, without allowing for any discretionary federal fiscal
controls. On the other hand, the only general alternative to revenue-sharing is greater
decentralization of tax power to sub-national governments, which actually would imply
even less control of fiscal policy by federal authorities (although it has other desirable
features).17 In effect, weakening of federal control over fiscal policy is an inevitable part
of the decentralization process. In order to keep fiscal policy from spinning out of
control, the focus of efforts probably should be in two areas: (1) eliminating the scope for
sub-national influence over money creation by privatizing sub-national government-
owned banks; and (2) restricting implicit or explicit federal guarantees on sub-national
borrowing, to the greatest extent possible, in order to establish clear inter-temporal
budget constraints.'8 Efforts also could be made to establish fiscal stabilization funds at
the provincial level. In addition, simply establishing clear rules for intergovernmental
transfers can help maintain stability.1 The December 1999 Federal Agreement moves in
that direction with the of establishing a moving average.
24.    One option that would improve federal control over fiscal policy is the
elimination of automatic financing for sectoral programs, to be discussed in more detail
below in the "primary distribution" section. Sectoral investment programs (the housing
fund, electricity fund, etc.) would become federal budget line-items that could be
adjusted according to federal fiscal policy objectives.
25.    Finally, another way to approach the macroeconomic stability issue is in the
design of the primary distribution. The traditional approach in Argentina (and most other
countries) is to fix percentage shares of federal tax collection that go to each level of
16 There is some scope for active monetary policy on the part of the Central Bank, to the extent that it can change
reserve requirements and to the extent that the Argentine system is not a pure currency board: base money must be at
least 70 percent covered by liquid international reserves (rather than 100 percent), with Argentine dollar bonds making
up the difference.
17 A third option would be purely discretionary transfers. which would be undesirable in terms of predictability,
transparency and objectivity in the distribution of revenues.
IS See Chapter 4 of the Argentina: Provincial Finances Study. Administrative controls may also be effective (see Ter-
Minassian and Craig, 1997). Also see Sanguinetti, Zentner and Rotstein (1997).
'9 See Sanguinetti (1994).



Annex G - Page 11 of 19
government. Another approach would be to set the total amount as some moving average
of previous years.20 In this way, the sub-national level of government will not
immediately receive (and perhaps spend) cyclical increases in expenditures. Of course,
on the downside of the business cycle, this scheme would imply a greater fiscal burden
on the federal government; however, this may be a reasonable price to pay to assure
greater macroeconomic stability.
E. THE PRLMARY DISTRIBUTION AND VERTICAL BALANCE
26.   In principle, the distribution of revenues between the federal and provincial levels
of govermnent (the "primary distribution") should be set to correct for "vertical
imbalance" - the mismatch between the expenditure responsibilities and revenue-raising
powers of each level of government. Almost all taxes can be well-assigned to the federal
level; however, for the sub-national level(s), only a small subset seem to function well.
As a result, vertical imbalances are common in decentralized federations.
27.   The problem is how to measure the true degree of vertical imbalance. One might
begin by determining whether there are chronic fiscal deficits in one level of government,
but not the other. In this case, the current transfer program might have the wrong primary
distribution, and hence, is not satisfactorily solving the vertical imbalance problem. In
recent years in Argentina, the federal government has sustained fiscal deficits in the 1.5
to 2 percent of GDP range; however, much (or all) of these deficits can be attributed to
the transition costs of social security reformn. Meanwhile, the provinces have on
aggregate suffered from deficits in the 0.4 to 1.1 percent of GDP range. In any case, this
information is only of limited usefulness, since the deficits could be attributed to a variety
of factors that have nothing to do with the primary distribution: poor tax administration,
inefficient production of the expenditure functions allocated to that level of government,
or simply tax rates that are too low. In order to determine precisely the appropriate
primary distribution, one would need to calculate the reasonable cost for producing
reasonable levels of the expenditure functions assigned to each level of government. In
addition, one would need to calculate the yield from the revenue sources assigned to each
level of government, given reasonable (perhaps "second-best") tax rates and reasonable
levels of tax compliance.
28.   One practical approach as part of the reform process would be to simply base the
primary distribution on the historical division of resources across the levels of
government. Under the reform proposal, the streamlining mentioned- above implies that a
variety of calculations must be made, since new taxes would be entering the revenue-
sharing pool and all taxes would enter 100 percent into the pool (no "pre-
coparticipation"). A first and very preliminary attempt to do these calculations is shown
below, based on data for 1998 from the Ministry of Economy. One controversial issue
should be noted: the final decentralization of secondary education and health that
20 See Annex 1, page 33, of the Argentina: Provincial Finances Study.



Annex G - Page 12 of 19
occurred in 1993. At that time, both federal and provincial revenues were growing
extremely rapidly, thanks to the newly stabilized economy. As part of a broader
negotiation of fiscal policy and provincial reforms (the "Fiscal Pact"), it was agreed that
the provinces would assume these responsibilities without receiving a greater share in the
primary distribution. This was in the context of rapidly increasing revenues for everyone,
as well as fiscal losses suffered by the federal government from economic reforms
including the lowering of tariffs (with these revenues belonging exclusively to the federal
government).
29.     One mechanism that could be used to address a perceived inadequacy in the
primary distribution would be the creation of a Fiscal Federal Forum.21 This
organization, with federal and provincial representation, could conduct technical
evaluations of the primary distribution, as well as play a role in the calculation of the
secondary distribution (see below). Finally, future decentralization of tax powers
gradually could close the vertical imbalance, making transfers and the primary
distribution less important over time.
Table 1: Historical Primary Distribution, An Approximation22
Primarv Distribution, 1998
(ArgS, billions)
Federal Collections                 Transfers to Provinces
Revenues from Shared Taxes          35.8
- Income                           9.5              >      12.6 General Coparticipation
- VAT                             20.3 .                    0.2 Prov'l Pension System
- Fuels                            3.7 L                    1.5 Special Infrastructure Funds
- Other excise                     1.5 i                    1.7 "Pre-Coparticipations"
- Personal Wealth                  0.8               3      0.7 Other Automatic
0.2 MCBA (automatic)
Social Security                     12.0
Total Shared and Soc. Sec.          47.8                     16.7 Total Automatic Transfers
34.9% Provincial Share (incl. MCBA)
Memo: Trade taxes                    2.8                         (But Needs to Calculated More Precisely)
Others not shared             1.7
Sources: Boletin Fiscal, 4th Quarter 1998, Table 14 for transfers, Gross Tax Revenues from Inforrne Economico
Note: there are another $1.6 billion in special discretionary or sectoral transfers that would bring the total transfers up to
approximately $18.3 billion (total from Boletin Fiscal, 4" Quarter 1998, Table 2).
**Social Security Taxes above include BOTH employee and employer contributions. Another alternative would be to include only
the employer contributions.
21 The creation of a federal fiscal organism is called for in Article 75 of the 1994 Argentine Constitution.
22 The arrows give some additional information on which taxes feed which transfer type - without copying all the
"spaghetti" of figure I (page 9).



Annex G - Page 13 of 19
30.   Note that if the special infrastructure funds become discretionary rather than
automatic transfers, then this item would be removed from the right-hand side above -
lowering total automatic transfers to about $15.2 billion. Probably, as part of the
negotiations process, the federal govermnent might commit to maintaining the value of
those funds in the short-term. Once again, these numbers would need to be calculated
with great precision. The table above is a first approximation.
31.   Social Security. One proposals would allocate only the employer payroll
contributions to the revenue-sharing pool. Thus, employee contributions for those
workers still affiliated with the public pension pillar, as opposed to the private pillar,
would remain 100 percent with the federal government. Assume that the primary
distribution for the provinces is set as a percentage share of the pool (as opposed to a
moving average of the amount transferred in recent years). Then, as employer payroll
reductions are reduced in the future to improve labor market conditions, the provinces
will share in those fiscal losses. This would make payroll tax reform more palatable from
the federal government's point of view, but it might also create a natural lobby of 23
Governors against this particular reform in the future. If employee contributions are
included (as they are in table 2), then the provinces will share in the fiscal losses
associated with future migration of individuals from the public system to the private
systeM.23 Negotiations with the provinces necessarily will bring to light these issues, and
some forrn of agreement would need to be reached.
F. SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION: ISSUES AND OPTIONS
32.   Principles. Courchene (1998)24 discusses two general rationales for
intergovernmental transfers: the "constitutional rationale" and the "citizenship rationale."
The constitutional rationale is the idea that each level of government must have access to
sufficient revenues for it to carry out its constitutional responsibilities-that is, transfers
exist to resolve a vertical imbalance between constitutional expenditure responsibilities
and revenue-raising powers. The citizenship rationale is the argument that citizens ought
to have rights to basic levels of certain services. The failure of a provincial government
to meet its citizen's demands could be due to a fundamental vertical imbalance between
levels of government, or due to a horizontal imbalance. The latter implies that a
particular province may have a smaller economic base relative to its population size and
thus not be able to deliver the minimum standards of service, unless it receives additional
resources from the center.
33.   Courchene then discusses the principle of fiscal equity by paraphrasing the
Canadian Constitution in this regard: all provinces should have access to a level of
overall revenues such that they can provide reasonably comparable levels of public
services at reasonably comparable tax rates. Some form of equalization transfer,
discussed in more detail below, can be used to meet this objective, eliminating horizontal
2 Already in 1996, 61 percent of employed persons and 46 percent of the self-employed had chosen the fully funded
private option.
24See his background paper (Annex 2), and also his C.D. Howe Institute Commentary.



Annex G - Page 14 of 19
imbalances. In many federations, vertical imbalances are not fully resolved,
intentionally, so that the center can exercise influence over provincial government
expenditure decisions via conditional transfers. It may be desirable that the conditions
are fairly broad (for example, simply tying certain funds to a particular sector), since the
federal interest in the particular condition stems from the fact that there may be inter-
provincial externalities associated with the particular good or service. Often for the
social sectors, though, this idea is similar to the citizenship rationale or fiscal equity
principle described above.
34.    The discussion in the preceding paragraph combines practical issues, relating to
the limitations on sub-national own-revenue generation, with equity concerns - in terms
of providing a comparable level of services across jurisdictions in a decentralized setting.
Boadway and Hobson (1993) have argued for intergovernmental transfers on efficiency
grounds, based on the notion of "net fiscal benefits."25 The theory starts by considering a
resident of any particular jurisdiction, who receives government benefits with a utility
value that may surpass, exactly equal, or be less than the taxes paid by that individual for
receiving those services. If the benefits do not equal the taxes paid, then a positive or
negative "net fiscal benefit" accrues to that individual. In the absence of
intergovernmental transfers, negative net fiscal benefits, other things being equal, could
cause an individual to migrate to anotherjurisdiction. In other words, there could be
fiscally induced migration that surpasses the natural level of migration existing in a world
without sub-national governments. Equalization transfers would eliminate inefficient
levels of migration by eliminating non-zero net fiscal benefits (on average) and allowing
governments to provide the same level of government services per capita at similar per
capita levels of taxation. 26
35.    Clearly, intergovernmental transfers in Argentina attend to the constitutional
rationale described above. As the provinces ceded tax powers to the center, revenue-
sharing became the main source of financing the provinces' expenditure responsibilities.
At various points in history, the formula for the secondary distribution appeared to
address "citizenship" purposes as well. For example, the reform of 1973 put in place a
formula which assured minimum basic levels of services, with transfers largely
determined by population, and partially determined by special needs or costs
(development gap and population density).
36.    The Argentine Constitution establishes a set of principles for the system of
revenue-sharing. The following paragraph from Article 75 establishes the
"constitutional" and "citizenship" rationales for the design of coparticipation:
"The distribution between the Nation, the provinces and the city of Buenos Aires and
across them, will be made in direct relation to the competencies, services andfunctions of
2 Dahlby and Wilson (1994) construct an altemative efficiency argument for equalization transfers even in the absence
of migration. Instead, they approach the subject from the marginal social cost of raising revenues - equalization allows
provinces to refrain from over-exploiting a particular tax base from a national marginal cost minimization point of
view.
26 One critique of the equalization approach is that higher per capita tax bases are often capitalized in higher per capita
wages, rents, etc. In other words, high per capita revenue jurisdictions may also face high per capita costs.



Annex G - Page 15 of 19
each one of them contemplating objective criteria of distribution; it will be equitable,
solidarity enhancing, and it will give priority to the accomplishment of an equivalent
level of development, quality of life and equality of opportunity in all the national
territory. "
37.   Recent Proposals. During the previous administration, an inter-ministerial team
(Chief of Cabinet's Office, Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Interior) initiated
discussion of a variety of proposals for reforming the coparticipation system. A
consensus proposal emerged that would use the following four criteria for determining
the secondary distribution; that is, the distribution of federal transfers across provinces:
(i)    Derivation ("devolutivo " component) of federal tax revenues. The
idea is that part of the revenues collected by the federal
government should return to the jurisdiction where they are
collected. The govermnent is considering using measurements of
provincial GDP as a proxy, since precise data on the source of
VAT collections are not available.
(ii)   Equalization of potential access to the same level of revenues per
capita. This would be based on a traditional Canadian equalization
formula.
(iii) Compensation for special needs.27 This component would provide
additional resources to provinces in proportion to the percentage of
the population living with "Unsatisfied Basic Needs" and in
proportion to low population density.
(iv)   Transitional adjustments to ease the burden on provinces that
would receive a much lower level of transfers under the new
system, compared to historical levels. These adjustments would be
eliminated over time.
38.   With regards to (iv) above, politically the most effective strategy for securing
support for the reform suggests that no province will receive nominal total transfers that
are less than the level received in the most recent year. Starting from that basis, the
question remains then, how to phase out the transitional transfers. One possibility is to
set the transitional transfers to a fixed nominal amount, so that with future revenue
growth, they would shrink as a share of total transfers and gradually disappear. A second
(perhaps more controversial) option would be to set the size of the total transfers to a
fixed nominal amount. Clearly, this would lead to a much faster transition. These
transitional issues are discussed in more detail later.
39.   The government team analyzed a variety of simulations, attaching different
weights to the components listed above. It is a tricky process, in that the equalization
component is costed out first, based on measurements of the value of provincial tax
bases. Total equalization transfers are a function of the degree of inequality in the values
27 Referred to as equiparaci6n territorial in the government proposals for reform.



Annex G - Page 16 of 19
of per capita tax bases across provinces. In order to calculate a value that brings each
province's total transfer up to the level of the most recent year, one must iteratively try
different transfer values of the combined share of components (i) and (iii) to reach a
secondary distribution that satisfies this constraint (really 24 constraints). There is a
problem of 24 equations with 25 unknowns (each individual province's transitory transfer
(24), plus the combined share of components (i) and (iii)), so one must use a
spreadsheet's iterative solution function to find a value of the combined share of (i) and
(iii) that fulfills the constraints with feasible values for the transitional transfers.
40.   There are a number of key decisions that would need to be made, in conjunction
with the provincial authorities. For example, the relative weight between components (i)
and (iii) would need to be based on the core beliefs of the Argentine people with respect
to what degree of re-distribution should be part of the co-participation system, or to what
extent the formula should be addressing special expenditure needs. There are important
and difficult agreements that need to be forged in order to finalize this and other
pararneter values. Another example would be the decision of how many taxes to include
in the equalization formula. In principle, all provincial taxes should be included;
however, perhaps not all the parties involved feel comfortable with the reliability of the
estimates of the value of the tax bases.
41.   Sumrnmary: The Challenge Ahead. Argentine society faces the difficult task of
reaching a consensus on how to convert an admittedly unfair revenue-sharing system into
something that reflects society's values and preserves the cohesion of the federation. A
new fiscal covenant28 needs to be reached between the federal government and the
provinces, agreeing on the overarching social policy objectives of the country and the
way that the system of fiscal federalism can serve those objectives.
42.   Any secondary distribution formnula that does not directly return revenues to the
jurisdiction where they are collected will be re-distributive. Even equal per capita would
be highly re-distributive given that the collection of federal revenues per capita is highly
dispersed.29 Argentine society will have to decide on the degree of re-distribution that
should occur: how much of the health, education, police and road services of the
neighboring province is a local tax payer willing to subsidize? Once that decision is
reached, there remains the equally difficult task of determining what criteria should be
used to determine the pattern of relative re-distribution across provinces. It seems,
though, that these decisions should be based on guiding principles and not on the basis of
comparing percentages from different formulas and simply choosing the one that looks
"about right" - or worse still, the one that would be closest to the current situation. Four
sensible criteria seem to appear and re-appear throughout Argentine history, the
academic literature, and throughout international experience:
(a)    Equal per capita transfers to provide financing for a basic package of
services (in particular with regards to the social sectors). Perhaps this
28 See Courchene (1998).
29 See the calculations made by Juan Antonio Zapata for Chapter 3 of the The Fiscal Dimension of the Convertibility
Plan.



Annex G - Page 17 of 19
component could be refined to take into consideration student-aged
population, along the lines of the Provincial Finances Study;
(b)    Equalization of revenue-raising capacity through some sort of
compensation to jurisdictions with lower per capita ability to generate own
tax revenues. The calculation could be made through a variety of
measurement techniques;
(c)    Special needs/special costs compensation to provide additional resources
for jurisdictions that face unusual demands due to the particular
characteristics of their population, or that face higher than average cost.of
service provision (due to inability to capture economies of scale, or
economies of scope, or simply a high local cost of living).
(d)    Derivation -- simply to return federally collected revenues to the source of
collection, under the understanding that those revenues are provincial
revenues, collected by the central government's tax agency for efficiency
reasons or practical administrative reasons. This approach is the only one
that implies no re-distribution.
43.    Moving from just (a) to adding on a (b) component almost certainly increases the
degree of re-distribution, unless there is no correlation between federal and provincial per
capita tax bases. Moving from (b) to (c) could actually move back towards less re-
distribution, depending upon how the component is calculated. For example, if it is
based on costs, rich urbanized jurisdictions might be forced to pay higher salaries to
public workers. If this type of factor weighs heavily in (c), then including (c) in the
formula would lessen the degree of re-distribution. One word of caution: the more
elements one adds to the formula, the more difficult it becomes to follow the internal
logic of the final outcomes of the formula. In any case, additional components should
have clear objectives. For exanple, the special needs component (iii) in the
government's proposal: is the purpose to adjust for the higher costs of public services in
low population density areas, or is it to improve the interpersonal distribution of income
(with the inclusion of "NBI")? If it is the latter, then perhaps there are better instruments
(federal social programs) than intergovernmental transfers for achieving this goal.30 If
there are specific public investment issues, like a lack of access to drinking water or
sewerage services in specific regions, then the issue may be resolved through regulation
(or contract design) of private water companies, or via specific purpose matching grants
(or loans).
44.   Derivation and Correspondence. An additional element in this discussion is the
high degree of provincial dependence upon transfers. This implies a low degree of
correspondence, which breaks down the link between the individual who finances
expenditures and the individual who receives public services. In principle, economic
theory states that the overall level of expenditures will not be affected by a low degree of
30 See Pauly (1973) and Brown and Oates (1987) for some of the debate on federal versus local roles in income re-
distribution. See Wildasin (1991) for the implications of local redistribution on optimal federal grant design, and some
discussion of centralization of this function.



Annex G - Page 18 of 19
correspondence, so long as no discretionary transfers from the center are forthcoming to
finance marginal expenditures.31 In terms of accountability and political economy, the
degree of correspondence may be critical in disciplining expenditure decisions.
45.    An additional element that should be considered is the decentralization of tax
power. Transfers represent well over 50 percent of revenues in most Argentine
provinces, so the degree of re-distribution inherent in the transfer system will have an
enormous impact on the distribution of total revenues across provinces - much more so
than in a country with a higher degree of provincial financial independence. This fact
provides a strong argument for the derivation component of the govermment proposal
outlined above. In the absence of further decentralization of tax authority, re-distributive
transfers perhaps should be tempered by simply retuming a particular share of revenues
collected to the source of collection - as a kind of proxy for a system in which provinces
raise a greater share of revenues from taxing their own local populations.32 On the other
hand, if greater decentralization of tax powers occurs, then a derivation component to
revenue-sharing might not be necessary. The derivation idea is broadly consistent with a
common theme stated by provincial officials in Argentina: that "coparticipation" belongs
to them, since it was the provinces that ceded tax authority to the center over the years. A
logical corollary to this statement is that the revenues collected through the federal
government's "borrowed" power to tax should flow back to the provinces according to
where the taxes are collected. This corollary is rarely stated in the interior of the country.
A final consideration with regards to the derivation component is that this component
should then enter the equalization formula (see Courchene). These would be revenues
collected by the federal government but delivered to the provinces according to their
relative tax bases. These then could enter the equalization formula in the same way as
provincial revenues collected by the provinces.
46.    Another issue is the treatment of the special sectoral investment programs in
housing, electricity development, etc. The government's proposal is to separate these
programs from the general revenue-sharing pool and make them annual discretionary
line-items in the federal budget. One important advantage33 to this approach is that it
would allow for the re-evaluation of the justification of these programs, clarifying the
purpose of these transfers and the criteria for their distribution (along the lines of
recornmendations in Shah (1994B)). These special purpose programs have focussed on
investment in infrastructure: housing, electricity and the like. It is not clear that the areas
financed have strong extra-provincial externalities justifying federal financing. In
general, these programs seem to have a two-fold purpose: (1) directed assistance to the
poor (although sometimes with very poor targeting, e.g. FONAVI housing find34); or (2)
help finance investment in smaller provinces that may have limited access to borrowing.
31 Inter-temporal expenditure decisions might be affected by the degree of correspondence even if extra transfers (in the
short run) are not forthcoming. Over time, with economic growth, revenues will grow and if those revenues are not
collected from the local jurisdiction there will be less political incentive to save any of those increments, or return them
to the local population via tax reductions. In addition, there is the empirical evidence in favor of a "flypaper effect":
that subnational govemments will spend more of an intergovemmental transfer than of an increase in local income.
See Turnbull (1998) for an innovative theoretical approach to the subject and new empirical evidence.
32 See Chapter 3 of The Fiscal Dimension of the Convertibility Plan.
33 Another advantage would be the increased federal discretion over fiscal policy (paragraph 28)
34 See The Fiscal Dimension of the convertibility Plan, Chapter 3, Section B for an evaluation of FONAVI.



Annex G - Page 19 of 19
With regards to (1), it is not clear that an intergovermnental transfer is the appropriate
instrument. With regards to (2), the financial flows, if justified, could be in the form of a
loan, rather than a grant. In any case, these programs should be re-evaluated and a
careful analysis conducted as to whether matching or non-matching, conditional or
unconditional sectoral transfers make sense - especially, ini the context of a new revenue-
sharing law.
47.   The revision of the sectoral programs also opens the possibility of the federal
govermnent exercising greater influence in setting national priorities for these programs.
For example, standards of service could be imposed as conditions for receiving these
funds. The government is considering calling the new sectoral programs a "Human
Development Fund." Per capita transfers, or a fixed transfer per "needy" person, could
be used for financing specific social programs. Once again, this could be packaged with
federal conditions on the performance of these programs in each jurisdiction.
48.   The federal government has already conducted much of the technical analysis
required to understand and evaluate the options that they face. Now the difficult
consensus building process will begin, in conjunction with provincial authorities.
According to the Constitution the new coparticipation law would have to be a law-
agreement (convenio-ley) ratified by both houses of the national legislature and approved
by all 23 provinces (Article 75, item 2). There must be at least a dozen secondary
distribution rules that would generally satisfy the needs for horizontal balance in the
Argentine federation. Unfortunately, there are infinitely many bad secondary distribution
rules. (Perhaps the best example would be a component that allocates resources
according to which jurisdiction spends the most, or hires the most workers.) The value of
the comprehensive analytical work conducted by the federal government is to present
some of the advantages and disadvantages of the sensible criteria. Hopefully this will
assist them in reaching an agreement with the provincial authorities.
World Bank User
A:\Provincial CPAT.doc
05129/00 5:38 PM






Annex H - Page 1 of 2
THE PROVINCES
Brief History and Overview
1.    The Argentine nation was born out of the union of various colonial regions with
differing economic and social characteristics. The first two decades of independence
(1810 to 1830) were characterized by struggles between unitarian and federalist groups.'
Underthe strong hand of Rosas (1830 to 1851), afederalist nation emerged. This process
was consolidated with the Constitution of 1853, establishing a constitutional federal
republic. The provinces were granted autonomy in the administration of their territories,
a limited set of federal government functions was established, the provinces were granted
residual powers over any matters not specified to be federal functions, and the internal
economic union was promulgated with the elimination of internal customs controls.2
Despite some modifications (including the recent reform of 1994), the essential federalist
structure of the 1853 Constitution remains in force today.
2.    The contemporary Argentine Republic is divided into 23 autonomous provinces
and the autonomous Municipality of the City of Buenos Aires (with legal status similar to
the provincial governments). The provinces are the principle providers of health, primary
and secondary education, and public safety functions in the Argentine public sector.
They are also responsible for most transportation and housing investment and share
responsibility with the federal government for regulation of privately provided
infrastructure and utilities.3 Provinces execute approximately 38 percent of total public
sector expenditures in Argentina.4
3.    Each province has autonomy to organize its territory into local municipal
jurisdictions, according to its provincial constitution and supplementary provincial law.
There are approximately 2,150 municipalities and towns (comunas) in Argentina.5 The
legal autonomy, expenditure responsibilities and financing arrangements of local
governrnents vary across provinces. Municipal governments are responsible for about 7
percent of total public sector expenditures in Argentina.6 In most cases, their activities
are restricted to traditional urban functions of local street maintenance, street lighting,
municipal parks, and solid waste disposal.
4.    The provinces have diverse geographic and demographic characteristics. The
Province of Buenos Aires is by far the largest, with nearly 14 million people. Then there
are three jurisdictions with about 3 million people each (C6rdoba, Santa Fe and MCBA)
Mendoza has 1.5 million inhabitants, followed by 7 provinces with populations in the 0.7
to 1.3 million range (Tucuman, Salta, Entre Rios, Corrientes, Chaco, Misiones and
Santiago del Estero). Another 12 jurisdictions have populations that range from 160,000
'Alemann (1992) and Skidmore and Smith (1984).
2 The establishment of constitutional federalism was not accomplished immediately, as the Province of
Buenos Aires refused to endorse the new Constitution until the 1860s.
3 For example, see World Bank Report, Argentina - Transport Privatization and Regulation: the next wave
of challenges, or Argentina-Reforming Provincial Utilities: Issues, Challenges and Best Practice.
4See Argentina: Provincial Finances Study, World Bank Report No. 15487-AR, July 12, 1996.
5Argentine Ministry of Economy, Informe Economico Regional; July, 1998.
6Argentina: Provincial Finances Study, page 5.



Annex H - Page 2 of 2
to 550,000. Finally, there is Tierra del Fuego, at the tip of the continent with about
100,000 inhabitants. The level of economic development varies dramatically, as well.
The high population provinces are at the top of the scale, while other provinces are
blessed with particularly strong natural resource bases (prime land in the humid pampas,
or the oil riches of the south). There is a concentration of lesser developed provinces in
the northwest and northeast. In addition, even in the more developed regions, migration
has led to pockets of poverty (for example, in the province of Buenos Aires, there are
densely populated slums outside the federal capital).
TABLE 1: Basic Characteristics of the Argentine Provinces
? bice .'''':    7      P0pat           GD? per       %d '         grahi    U 'i,          Lit         ini
(mid-1998)        cpt       ?P9Wpit Jn,,trt                           ()~Mra1t
____________               ~~~~~~~Ave.~ 1,00) NB    ____             (ct 9)Pr,00
G.C.B.. y3,046,662                             302    8,1                200          9.5%     99.2%        i2.2
Buenos Aires               14,214,701           85    17,2           307,571         13.9%    97.4%         18.8
Catamarca                     318,147           61   28,2            102,602         17.2%     95.0%        25.6
Cordoba                     3,090,803           95   15,1            165,321         15.2%     96.5%        16.3
Corrientes                    921,933           53   31,4             88,199         11.8%     89.7%        22.8
Chaco                         951,795           49   39,5             99,633         10.9%     87.6%        28.2
Chubut                        448,028          112   21,9            224,686         13.1%     94.9%        19.1
Entre Rios                  1,113,438           72    20,6            78,781         12.5%     94.6%        19.6
Formosa                       504,185           45   39,1             72,066          7.5%     90.6%        29.8
Jujuy                         604,002           54   35,5             53,219         16.2%     92.1%          24
La Pampa                      306,113          106    13,5           143,440         11.5%     95.5%        12.1
La Rioja                      280,198           73    27,0            89,680         8.30%     95.6%        19.3
Mendoza                     1,607,618           93    17,6           148,827          8.3%     94.9%        16.7
Misiones                      995,326           52   33,6             29,801          5.7%     90.8%        21.3
Neuquen                       560,726          132   21,4             94,078         13.2%     93.9%        13.8
Rio Negro                     618,486           92   23,2            203,013                   93.7%        15.5
Salta                       1,067,347           54   37,1            155,488         14.4%     92.3%        20.5
San Juan                      578,504           67    19,8            89,651          8.1%     95.3%        21.5
San Luis                      363,345          105   21,5             76,748          6.0%     95.3%        19.9
Santa Cruz                    206,897          170    14,7           243,943          4.6%     97.5%          16
Santa Fe                    3,098,661           92    17,6           133,007         17.6%     96.0%        16.3
Santiago del Estero           725,993           42    38,2           136,351          6.0%     90.4%        16.6
Tucumin                     1,293,349           60   22,4             22,524         17.1%     94.5%        19.6
Tierra del Fuego              115,538          219    27,7          1,002,445        12.0%     98.8%         11.2
All Provinces              37,031,802        $8,323   19,9          3,761,274        14.5%     96.0%       18.8%/.
Source: INDEC and Ministry of Economy (GDP per capita, preliminary unpublished data-to be revised.)
Notes: Population is INDEC's projection based on 1991 census and forecasted growth rates. % of population in NBI
is the percent of the population living in dwellings with unsatisfied basic needs (lacking in some basic access to
service/minimum quality of construction). Unemployment rate is only for urban areas (where more than one urban area
is surveyed, then both rates or range is reported). Literacy is % of population over 15 years of age that is literate.
Infant mortality is per 1,000 live births.



Annex I - Page 1 of 6
Provincial Debt
l. Since 1991, price stability has implied the need for a new style of fiscal management
in the provinces. Gone are the days when payment delays could easily cut real public
sector salaries and other expenditures. Easy revenues from investing in the overnight
market at high real interest rates is also a technique that no longer exists. In the first three
years of stability, rapid economic growth and reverse "Tanzi effects" provided a revenue
boom. Since then, more moderate growth, interrupted by two recessions, have created the
challenge for provinces to plan their annual budget executions more carefully, and to
develop a debt strategy. As part of the strategy, the provinces should include
precautionary measures for possible economic downturns, as well as possible interruption's
to the normal flow of credit. Most provinces have made progress in improving budget
processes, but they still require major improvements in integrating financial information
systems and developing longer term fiscal and debt strategies.
2. The new economic stability also required a "settling of accounts," as disputes over
old unpaid bills and inflation adjustrnents of the past were settled with the use of
govermnent debt consolidation notes. In addition, liabilities hidden in provincial banks
were brought out into the open as 18 of these institutions were privatized. Provinces
ended the accumulation of negative net worth in these institutions, but they had to absorb
the existing negative net worth in order to free themselves from these institutions. To ease
the burden and encourage this important structural reform, the Bank helped provinces
refinance these liabilities.
3. Access to formal credit has been sporadic for most provinces. A pattem that has
emerged in many of the smaller provinces is that the first stage of indebtedness is
generally informal, "floating" debt - arrears to suppliers and even to employees. When
levels become intolerable, "floating" debt is consolidated into bonds that are essentially
forced on the creditors. During the recession of 1995, some bonds were issued with the
clear intention that they be used as a local means of payment - provincial money. During
more favorable periods, with improved market access, the provinces issue real bonds or
seek bank loans both to finance investments and to clean up the mess of floating debt/junk
bonds/provincial money.
4. Level of indebtedness. Within this historical context, the provinces had accumulated
$19.1 billion in debt, as of December 31s', 1998.' This corresponds to 63 percent of
aggregate provincial current revenues, or about 6.4 percent of national GDP. The stock of
debt varies broadly across provinces as does its size relative to local GDP and annual
revenues. The table below displays this diversity across jurisdictions' It should be noted
that the level of indebtedness would have been higher if it had not been for billions of
1 Debt is estimated to have increased by $3-3.5 billion by the end of 1999. The analysis is based on 1998
data, because 1999 data is still preliminary and less reliable. In the aggregate it is likely that the structure
of debt has changed somewhat since the end of 1998, with a larger increase in floating debt relative to debt
with the banking sector.



Annex I - Page 2 of 6
dollars in privatization revenues that provinces received in recent years. Few provinces
set aside these revenues or used them to retire debt.
Table 1: Provincial Debt Stocks, End 1998
Stocks         %      Debt!       Debt!      Per Capita
Jurisdiction     (Pesos, 1,000)    Of Total  Current Rev's Est. GDP    Debt (Pesos)
TOTAL                     19,137,575    100.0%        63%        6.4%        53G
G.C.B.A.                  2,435,400     12.70/o      77%          4%         801
BUENOS AIRES              3,495,100     18.3%        38%          3%         252
CATAMARCA                  397,155       2.1%        84%         26%        1,296
CORDOBA                   1,205,692      6.3%        50%          5%         398
CORRIENTES                 948,491       5.0%       143%         23%        1,058
CHACO                     1,020,112      5.3%       119%         26%        1,097
CHUBUT                     474,552       2.5%       107%         16%        1,108
ENTRE RIOS                 600,921       3.1%        55%          9%         548
FORMOSA                    768,222       4.0%       135%         48%        1,597
JUJUY                      676,222       3.5%        121%        25%        1,157
LA PAMPA                    81,768       0.4%        18%          3%         276
LA RIOJA                   462,890       2.4%        80%         27%        1,735
MENDOZA                   1,024,624      5.4%        82%          9%         653
MISIONES                   720,513       3.8%       104%         16%         758
NEUQUEN                    400,914       2.1%        48%          5%         770
RIO NEGRO                  869,589       4.5%        145%        19%        1,462
SALTA                      517,882       2.7%        65%         11%         506
SAN.JUAN                   405,093       2.1%        62%         12%         711
SAN LUIS                    88,449       0.5%         19%         3%         255
SANTA CRUZ                  128,685      0.7%        22%          5%         655
SANTA FE                   938,950       4.9%        39%          4%         309
S. DEL ESTERO              333,014        1.7%       46%         13%         465
TUCUMAN                    982,041       5.1%      104%         17%         778
T. DEL FUEGO               161,296       0.8%        52%          6%        1,539
Source: DNCFP, Ministry of Economy, own calculations
Note: Current revenues are net of federal transfers tied to public works.
5. Structure. The table below displays the general categories of provincial debt. On an
aggregate level, 28 percent was held by public and private banks; 20 percent was in the
form of bonds; 16 percent was due to international development banks2; 14 percent was in
the form of "floating" debt; 3 percent was "consolidated" debt; and only 1 percent was
owed directly to the federal government3. "Consolidated" debt are bonds that are
delivered to "floating" creditors - that is, suppliers or public employees that have not been
paid. The other bonds, not counted under "consolidated" debt, were sold to investors in
the market place to raise funds.
2 Most of the IDB loans and almost all of Bank loans to the provinces are lent to the federal govermment,
who then on-lends to the provinces. Technically speaking, most of the debt in this category is owed by the
provinces to the federal government.
It should be noted that some of the debt to banks is owed to the federal Banco de la Naci6n and to the
public Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires and Banco de la Municipalidad de Buenos Aires.



TABLE 2: Structure
TOTAL        Fed'l Gov't       Banks        lIt. Org.(3)   "Floating"   Consolidated        Bonds        Bank Priv'n       Other
TOTAL                             100%              I%            28%            16%            14%              3%            20%              0%            18%
G.C.B.A. (1)                       100%             0%             5%              1%            10%             4%            21%              0%             60%
BUENOS AIRES (2)                   100%             0%             5%             11%             8%             0%            21%              0%             54%
CATAMARCA                          100%             7%            43%             15%            10%            17%              8%             0%              0%
CORDOBA                            100%             0%            53%             11%            25%             6%              4%              0%             0%
CORRIENTES                         100%             6%            43%              6%             9%              1%            35%             0%              0%
CHACO                              100%             0%            30%             15%            14%             0%            40%              0%              0%
CHUBUT                             100%             0%            64%              8%            20%              1 %            8%             0%              0%
ENTRE RIOS                         100%             0%            41%            30%             11%             5%             13%             0%              0%
FORMOSA                            100%             0%            70%             19%             7%             0%              3%             0%              0%
JUJUY                              100%             4%            36%             16%            21%            15%              8%             0%              0%
LA PAMPA                           100%             0%            65%            34%              0%             0%              0%             0%              0%
LA RIOJA                           100.%            0%            35%             4%             33%            18%              2%             8%              0%
MENDOZA                            100%             0%            25%            32%              9%             2%             33%             0%              0%
MISIONES                           100%             0%            59%             15%             2%             5%             18%             0%              0%
NEUQUEN                            100%             0%            41%             14%            31%             2%             12%             0%              0%
RIO NEGRO                          100%             2%            50%            21%              8%             0%             16%             3%              0%
SALTA                              100%             1%            52%            24%              2%             2%             18%             0%              0%
SAN JUAN                           100%             2%            46%            32%              6%             3%             11%             0%              0%
SAN LUIS                           100%             0%             0%            66%             34%             0%              0%             0%              0%
SANTA CRUZ                         100%             0%              1%            77%             8%             0%             13%             0%              0%
SANTA FE                           100%             0%             6%            37%             45%             2%             10%             0%              0%
S. DEL ESTERO                      100%            13%             17%           22%              9%             2%             38%             0%              0%
TUCUMAN                            100%             3%            10%             17%            12%              1%            54%             3%              0%
TIERRA DEL FUEGO                   100%             0%            28%              3%            28%             8%             32%             0%              0%
TOTAL (in 1,000 Pesos)        19,137,575       233,153       5,363,650      3,024,286      2,619,608         589,627      3,858,244          90,506      3,358,500
Notes: (1) Under the item "others" is debt to the federal govertnment that is under dispute and is not being serviced.
(2) Included under "others" is debt to the province's own bank that was refinanced and collateralized wilal a 20 year inaturiy, zero-coupon US Treasury
Government publications consider this debt to be already paid for; however, the province is paying 6 % interest on the balaice, with bullet amortization due in 20 years
(3) The debt with Internat'l Organizations is mostly owed to the fed'l gov't, since most IDB and almost all Bank lending to the provinces goes through the federal gov't  w
0
o-
ON



Annex I
Page 4 of 6
6. The "others" category includes two particular forms of debt of two particular
jurisdictions. The first is comprised of debts of the City of Buenos Aires with the federal
government. The city claims that there are federal government debts back to the city that
should cancel these out; however, a dispute remains. The amount, $1.4 billion is
significant. The second entry under "others" is $1.9 billion that the Province of Buenos
Aires owes to its own provincial bank. The province purchased a zero-coupon US
Treasury bond that matures in 20 years at a value of $1.9 billion. The province then
renegotiated its obligations with the provincial bank, offering this US Treasury bond as
collateral. As part of the deal, the province pays 6 percent interest on the $1.9 billion over
20 years and then turns over the matured Treasury bond as a bullet arnortization of the
original debt. Since the bond is already in custody, the province considers this debt to be
already cancelled, and this debt does not appear in federal government publications on the
provincial fiscal situation. Interest is still due on this debt and the final amortization has
not been made formally, so it is included here.
7. Then there is the category of "bank privatization", which is an insignificant share of
the total, but appears to be more important in some jurisdictions. These would be
particular loans to refinance the negative net worth absorbed by provinces during bank
privatization. Most of these negative net-worth residual entities were refinanced by loans
from the federal government or loans through the federal government from the World
Bank and IDB, and these loans would appear under their respective columns.
8. Finally, one comment on the floating debt: the data may be of questionable accuracy.
The problem often lies in difficulties in the linking accounting systems between the
Contaduria, which registers the accrued expenditure, and Tesoreria, which registers the
cash payment. In some cases, there may be accrued expenditures that were cancelled, but
still appear as unpaid, "floating" debt. In other cases, there may be accrued expenditures
that do not show up as unpaid in Tesoreria. Sometimes, there are problems with
payments across accounts within the government that end up appearing as unpaid in the
Treasury office. In brief, in some cases, the "floating" debt stock is exaggerated, while in
other cases, it is underestimated. One example would be San Luis, which has run large
surpluses in recent years. Floating debt of $30 million (7 percent of current revenues)
seems inconsistent with these surpluses.
9. Debt service burden. The table below displays the debt service burden as a share of
current revenues. We see that for the aggregate provincial accounts, debt service is
pushing up to the limit of 15 percent that we have advocated as part of our fiscal eligibility
criteria for bank investment loans. On a province-by-province basis, once again, the
situation varies dramatically. Total debt services ranges from I to 48 percent of current
revenues. It should be noted that in some cases, high amortization payments last year may
include debt cancellation, or prepayments, and the medium-term projected debt service
may be lower than what is represented in the table. On the other hand, some provinces
that secured grace periods for loans received in 1997 or 1998, may face much larger total
debt service burdens over the medium term. A column on floating debt to current
revenues is included below, since this category is really short-termn debt - due



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
immediately (in principle). There are doubts (mentioned above) on the reliability of the
floating debt information
Table 3: Debt Service Burden, 1998
Jurisdiction      Interest/   Amortization/  Total D.S./    Floating Debt/
Current Rev's Current Rev's  Current Rev's  Current Rev's
TOTAL                      4%           10%          14%             9%
G.C.B.A.                   3%            7%          10%              8%
BUENOS AIRES               2%           4%            6%             .3%
CATAMARCA                  5%           10%          15%              8%
CORDOBA                    5%           26%          31%             13%
CORRIENTES                 7%          21%           28%             13%
CHACO                      5%            8%          13%             17%
CHUBUT                     9%           10%          19%             21%
ENTRE RIOS                 5%           11%          16%              6%
FORMOSA                    8%           16%          24%             10%
JUJUY                      6%           28%          34%             25%
LAPAMPA                    1%            1%           2%              0%
LA RIOJA                   1%           20%          21%             27%
MENDOZA                    9%           11%          20%              7%
MISIONES                   6%            9%          15%              2%
NEIQUEN                    2%           10%          12%             15%
RIO NEGRO                 12%           36%          48%             12%
SALTA                      4%           12%          16%              1%
SAN JUAN                   5%           4%            9%              4%
SAN LUIS                   1%            0%           1%              7%
SANTA CRUZ                 0%            1%           1%              2%
SANTA FE                   1%            2%           3%             18%
S. DEL ESTERO              8%           14%          22%              4%
TUCUMAN                    6%           27%          33%             12%
T. DEL FUEGO               4%            3%           7%             15%
Source: DNCFP/Ministry of Economy, own calculations
Debt service levels above one-fourth of current revenues are highlighted.
10. The Debt Relief Program. The debt relief program announced by the new federal
administration is designed to help those provinces that are willing to make fiscal
adjustments needed to meet fiscal equilibrium by 2003. In return, the Federal
Government would be willing to provide financial assistance so that these provinces can
meet their short-term debt servicing and to help in improving the structure of provincial
debt. About ten smaller provinces have been notional identified as eligible, given their
debt situation, but actual participation would be based on the willingness to make required
fiscal adjustments. Program monitoring is designed to be extremely tight, in that targets
would be set quarterly and any deviations from the programn would require accelerated
repayments of all assistance.



Annex I
Page 6 of 6
11. The program is being initiated with about $1.5 billion for assistance, which suggests
that the Federal Government as a creditor for the provinces would increase from about 1
percent to around 7 percent. While not a high level in the aggregate, it would increase
their exposure in smaller, highly indebted provinces. As such, the Federal Government
would require that participating provinces provide guarantees from revenue-sharing.. The
funds themselves are expected to be ten-year money with an interest rate of around 12
percent. To enhance burden-sharing with local commercial banks, the $1.2 billion fund is
being raised with the participation of the five leading banks representing about 80 percent
of commercial bank loans to the provinces.



-;; \ 70  ?                    *      6Jo    75                               ,IBRD 29348
BOLIVIA           12
-  ,   c>)s I I'PARAGUAY
.,' '''   t6dar    -     >t                           B R A  Z I L
or~mosa/
1~TUCU,#AN  flncia
)3  1 $ 0 ta b g i/  > C9  SANTIAGO    Re,iste,a   Posad5s
; Di . 'V -%( ........   L-     Sag Bo del  -Q- .-Corrienfes'r
LU                  - A   kTERO         fcO        /
\  L A                             o~
r#IOJA\V               SANTA)-.C.
K  >~~~-~'~~-'  S ~ENTRE
Mendoza\  Son i. R                      URUGUAY s
7     \~SANj           -
LUIS.                          s Aires
)MENDOZA.
r    r  J M E N D O   BZ A  ENOS                     A    L-
Santa Rosa|                                         A T L A  N  T I C
L A            AI REfS
2:         ( -? f  .PAMPA
NEUQUEN~
\Neuqu65                 |O  C E A  N
-.-' )RIO           !
LJ~~~~    NEGRO       ma@
.. - _                     ...... W 4 | ;0 fARGENTINA
CHUBUT                      $                        k3 -t u 0 <<d ' PROVINCE CAPITALS
. ? Q t? -; . .>i .tC , > .....                                          , ; + @    PtAIONA CAPITAL
-            ~~~~PROINCE ROPJNDARIES
2, . . !. sj 2 4 <.>4 s.,>,., ,,, -5- f                               fW'RNATIONAL BOUNDA4E
-- a    t     ffi SANTA
~ ( CRUZ
0020ID 2300  A0 Sr 600 KIhOMEiS
i         l-4a3  100M
shuo                       MOP W-ft~~~lsi  Ii bY *h Mop Desie Unif of The World flank.
A                ?uk~~~~i wbdrlvvop s.imm 4ms~d  Onyoter informtoKon shown
cq.mp4'wm*,pI on :epory o i6 woSd scr*k roup, a~ny
APRIL 1998



