Report No. PID9574
Project Name                     Argentina-Third Provincial Reform...
Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           PREM
Project ID                       ARPE44447
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              The Implementation Units in the Ministry
of Finance of the beneficiary provinces.
Date PID prepared                May 12, 1999
Appraisal Date                   September 15, 1999
Proposed Date of                 October 28, 1999
Board Presentation
Background
1.      Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized. The 24 provincial
governments are responsible for almost half of public sector expenditures,
including over 90% of public spending in health and education. However, on
the revenue side, provinces collect less than 20% of the public sector
revenues and their "own-source revenues" average less than 40% of provincial
expenditures. The gap between expenditures and revenues is filled by
transfers and shared revenues from the central government, mostly block
grants. The central government is constitutionally responsible for monetary
and foreign policy but has little leverage on the way the provinces manage
their finances, borrow, or deliver public services. Matching grants are
seldom used. Earmarked funds are transferred from the nation to finance
provincial infrastructure and housing programs.
2.      Fiscal Performance. Provincial fiscal performance has often been
poor. During the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline,
easy access to borrowing and reliance on the central government for transfers
and bailouts all contributed to persistent fiscal deficits. The situation
improved briefly in 1992 (due to the Convertibility Plan, associated Tanzi
effect, and a
major national tax effort) but deteriorated again soon after due to
proliferate spending. The financial crisis of 1995 aggravated the critical
situation of the
provinces. Provincial revenues dropped 5% in real terms, provincial
expenditures failed to adjust, and the provincial deficit reached a record
high of US$3.5 billion or 1.3% of GDP, about half of the consolidated public
sector deficit. Out of 24 provinces, only four had balanced fiscal accounts.
Most of the others faced important liquidity shortages, increased borrowing,
accumulated arrears. Some provinces resorted to printing their own money.
3.      In 1997, the provincial fiscal situation improved. Revenues recovered
with economic activity, expenditures were curbed in response to increased
fiscal discipline. On the one hand, the central government increased its
selectivity in bailing out bankrupt provinces, leading to severe social



problems whenever
public workers were not paid. On the other hand, the generation of Governors
who won the 1995 elections promising major reform changes were now ready to
move forward. In the context of increased confidence, some large provinces
were successful in issuing debt abroad and refinancing their expensive
domestic debt. With the effects of the Asia crisis, fiscal performance in
1998 is not expected to be as robust, due to declining economic activity,
lower than expected revenues, and increased financial costs.
4.      Structural Reforms: During 1992 and 1993, the Federal Government
negotiated two agreements with the provinces to promote structural economic
changes. The provinces agreed to improve own-source mobilization, restructure
provincial taxes and eliminate distortionary taxes, privatize public
enterprises, including the provincial banks and utilities, deregulate the
provincial economy, and transfer the provincial pension funds to the national
system. In exchange, the federal government guaranteed a shared-revenue
floor to each province, sheltering them from any down swings in revenue. It
also provided a Transformation Fund, which helped finance those reforms and
provide technical assistance and advisory services.
5.      Progress was achieved in many areas (See 2/). Almost half of the
provincial public enterprises had been privatized, 18 out of the 31
provincial and municipal banks were fully privatized, and many others are
currently being privatized. Many provincial utility services are now run by
the private sector. Many of the distortionary provincial taxes have been
removed, and eight provinces have transferred their pension funds to the
national government.
Provincial Reform Programs
6.      In 1996, the federal government recognized the need for a second
phase of provincial reforms. These reforms would help the Governors to
improve efficiency in public spending, reduce the size of their central
administrations, secure and maintain fiscal balance, reduce debt stock and
debt service to manageable proportions, and enhance responsiveness, quality
and equity in the
provision of social services. Several governors had requested Bank technical
and financial assistance to carry out these types of actions. During the
Country Assistance Review in November 1996, the Argentine Government gave
high priority to Bank assistance for the reform of selected provinces in the
context of a structural adjustment operation. The Bank's report (See 3/) on
the Argentine provincial finances provided the analytical framework for the
operation.
7.      The national government and the Bank jointly agreed on the
eligibility criteria and the focus of the program. The loans would be
available to provinces that: (i) have introduced significant structural
reforms in terms of size of the provincial government and privatization of
major public banks and other enterprises; (ii) have accepted the transfer of
the provincial pension funds to the national system; and (iii) have
demonstrated ability and political commitment to further reforms.
8.      On the basis of the above criteria and taking into account the
support from the Legislature, four provinces were selected -- Salta, Tucuman,
San Juan and Rio Negro. These programs are now under way. Together, the four
-2 -



provinces account for 6% of Argentina's GDP and 10% of the country's
population.
9.      The programs agreed with these four provinces are currently being
implemented. Although some delays have been experienced, in general the
fundamental reforms required are being put in place. The success of these
programs has attracted the interest of additional provinces and the proposed
operation would seek to respond to this increased demand. Lessons from the
ongoing experience suggests that the loan design for a direct relation
between the Bank and the provinces is important in enabling the Bank to bring
to bear its international experience and in providing a mediating influence
between the federal and provincial stakeholders. The participation of
provinces not governed by the ruling party has provided an important means of
engaging the entire political spectrum in the provincial reform effort. In
addition, the provincial approach to promoting needed sector reforms in
health and education appears to be a fundamental complement to the Bank's
efforts in these areas at the national level.
Loan Objectives
10.     The objective of these loans is to help the provinces to deepen the
reforms and restructure their governments so as to ensure an efficient and
responsive delivery of public services (notably social services) within
fiscally sound policies.
11.     Coordination with Multilateral Institutions. The Bank has worked
closely with the IMF in the design and supervision of adjustment operations
in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in economic and sector
work. The IMF shares our concern regarding the need to help improve the
provincial fiscal
situation. Bank staff will coordinate with the IMF to ensure the
compatibility of this loan with the adjustment program negotiated with the
IMF. The IDB has cofinanced the Public Sector Reform Loan, Provinces I and
the Provincial Bank Privatization Loan. The proposed operation would
complement the IDB's provincial work since it is directly financing the
provinces of Buenos Aires and Mendoza, and the city of Buenos Aires.
Loan Description
12.     The proposed loans would support the provinces as they implement
their reform programs with a series of fiscal, administrative and social
measures. As with the ongoing loans, major components would include public
finances, and reforms in health and education spending. Measures in public
finance would focus on reducing the level of personnel expenditures to
provide for more investment spending, achieving a sustainable equilibrium in
current spending, improving own resource mobilization and improving debt
management and levels. Reforms in health would focus on improving quality
and efficiency in spending and improved targeting by separating financing and
delivery and decentralizing public hospital management. For education,
measures would seek to increase spending on educational materials and
facilities and support implementation of the federal education reform law.
While these activities would remain as the core objectives, as in the ongoing
loans, other possible components focusing on supporting private sector
development would be reviewed during preparation, depending on the specific
needs of the individual provinces
-3-



13.     Borrower and Loan Amount. The borrower of the adjustment loans would
be the Argentine Republic. The beneficiaries will be the provinces to be
selected during preparation. Currently, four provinces have shown interest
in preparing reform programs, Catamarca, Chubut, Misiones and Buenos Aires.
The amounts of each loan would be determined as a function of the population
of the province, needs of adjustment and depth of each program. Disbursements
for each loan would be conditioned on Board approval (effectiveness) and
subsequent positive evaluations of the compliance of provinces with reform
actions agreed during negotiations. While the formal tranche-release actions
will be limited to key measures, the full program of each province is
detailed in the draft Letters of Provincial Reform (LPR).
14.     Tranche disbursement. Given the various stages of reform in each of
the participating provinces, the Bank's support has been packaged in separate
loans. The loans will first disburse--as provincial compliance is confirmed--
into a fund to be managed by the National Ministry of Economy, the fund
borrower. The fund will, in turn, quickly disburse the agreed tranches to the
complying provinces. The first tranche disbursement would be released
promptly after loan effectiveness, since actions required for disbursement
will have been implemented prior to Board presentation. The second tranche
disbursements would be released in about 6-12 months, depending on the speed
of the reform following
a positive review of the second (and third, in some provinces) tranche
compliance.
Environmental Aspects
15.     The provincial reform programs are not expected to have an adverse
environmental impacts, and would be classified in the "C" environmental
impact category.
1/   Including the city of Buenos Aires, which is larger in population
than most provinces.
2/   The Bank assisted these reforms with several loans:
Provincial Development Loans I and II and the Provincial Reform
Loan I have helped the federal government to begin promoting
provincial reforms. The ongoing Provincial Bank Privatization
Loan helped the provinces to privatize their banks and the
Provincial Pension Reform Loan supporting the transfer of the Pension
Funds from provincial governments to the central government.
3/   Argentina Provincial Finances Study - Issues in Fiscal Federalism,
July 12, 1966, Report No. 15487-AR.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
- 4 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 13, 2000.
- 5 -



