Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4578-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Reform Adjustment Loan -- Catamarca)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 17, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4578-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 2001 between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated August 22, 2000, from the 
Argentine Republic’s Province of Catamarca (the Province) describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the public finances 
and public education and public health sectors of the Province (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Province’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has indicated to the Bank that the actions and conditions 
set forth in the Program and in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement, described therein 
as agreed between the Province and the Bank, are consistent with the Borrower’s 
national policy framework regarding provincial reforms, which policy (without 
mandating specific numerical targets) encourages provinces of the Borrower to, inter 
alia:  (i) achieve and maintain balanced provincial public sector budgets; (ii) 
decrease the ratio of provincial public sector personnel expenditures to provincial 
public sector current revenues; (iii) maintain or decrease the ratio of provincial 
public sector debt stock to provincial public sector current revenues; (iv) not incur 
debt to finance provincial public sector current expenditures except under certain 
limited circumstances; (v) in general improve their provincial public sector fiscal, 
financial, accounting and budgetary discipline in a manner consistent with their 
constitutions; (vi) participate in the National Public Investment System (Sistema 
Nacional de Inversión Pública); and (vii) in a manner consistent with national 
policies, achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness with regard to provincial 
public expenditures, particularly in the health and education sectors, all in an 
effort to widen the scope and increase the quality of provincial participation in said 
sectors for the benefit of underprivileged segments of the population;
Page  2
(C)
the Borrower has expressed its commitment to lend to and for use by the 
Province funds in local currency in amounts equivalent to the Loan amounts disbursed 
by the Bank; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Province by making the Loan 
to the Borrower in three tranches as hereinafter provided, thus allowing the Borrower 
to lend to the Province the funds in local currency referred to above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read as follows in its 
entirety:
"‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Second Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Sections 2.02 (d) (i) and 2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement have been met;
(c)
"Subloan Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and the 
Province, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the Borrower agrees to lend to the 
Province funds in local currency, in amounts equivalent to the amounts of the Loan 
disbursed by the Bank; and
(d)
"Third Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Sections 2.02 (e) (i) and 2.02 (e) (ii) of this Agreement have been met.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to seventy 
million Dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account.  The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be 
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $25,700,000, unless:
(i)
at least six months have passed since the Effective Date; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Province in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory; 
and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
(all of which have been agreed to by the Province and are 
consistent with the Borrower’s policy framework regarding 
provincial reforms) have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable 
conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to 
be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $45,700,000, unless:
(i)
at least six months have passed since the Second Tranche Release 
Date; and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:  (A) with the progress achieved by the 
Province in the carrying out of the Program; (B) that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory; 
and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
(all of which have been agreed to by the Province and are 
consistent with the Borrower’s policy framework regarding 
provincial reforms) have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable 
conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to 
be unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
seven hundred thousand Dollars ($700,000).  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party or of the Province, exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this 
Agreement.  The Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, 
cause the Province to participate in such exchanges of views with the Borrower and the 
Bank.
Page  5
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every three months from 
the Effective Date to the Third Tranche Release Date, the Borrower shall, as allowed 
by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the Province to furnish to the Bank for 
the Bank’s review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views, and, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan 
Agreement, cause the Province to exchange views, with the Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall, as allowed by the terms of the Subloan Agreement, cause the 
Province to assist in, and provide all information required for, the preparation of 
the report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, as said Section 
9.07 (c) is amended and renumbered pursuant to Section 1.01 (d) and (e) of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after each 
disbursement of Loan proceeds, disburse to the Province funds in local currency 
equivalent to the respective amounts of each such disbursement (except that funds in 
local currency equivalent to the amount disbursed by the Bank to itself pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement need not be so disbursed by the Borrower to the 
Province).  Such disbursement to the Province shall take place according to the terms 
of the Subloan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The Subloan Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so 
as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, proper disbursement of local currency 
amounts to the Province as required by Section 3.03 of this Agreement, or so as to 
make the interest and principal repayment terms set forth in the Subloan Agreement 
significantly different, in the opinion of the Bank, from those set forth or referred 
to in Article II of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Province in the 
carrying out of the Program; and
Page  6
(c)
the Subloan Agreement has been entered into.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinions 
(one from the Borrower and another from the Province) to be furnished to the Bank, 
namely that the Subloan Agreement entered into in satisfaction of the condition set 
forth in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Province and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Province in accordance with the terms of such Subloan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date of November 19, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Felipe Cavallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  7
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112           -
Alcoholic beverages
121           -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122           -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525           -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
  -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked
or worked 
718         718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728         728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971            -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
Page  8
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2006
through October 15, 2015
3,500,000
_______________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 3
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Public Finances
1.
The Province has incurred, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, 
provincial public sector current expenditures equal to or less than provincial public 
sector current revenues (i.e., has operated without a current deficit for the 
aggregate of said period).  For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
unless the text indicates otherwise, "provincial public sector" means all 
components of the provincial public sector (except for parastatal enterprises and 
social security entities) for which funding is allocated as part of the annual 
consolidated provincial budgets approved by the Province’s legislature;
(b)
"current revenues" means:  (i) revenues from taxes; (ii) non-tax revenues 
from the sale of goods and services and from property rentals; and (iii) revenues from 
federal revenue-sharing transfers (fondos de coparticipación; excluding those for the 
financing of public works expenditures, such as those from Fondo Nacional de la 
Vivienda, from Fondo Especial de Desarrollo Eléctrico del Interior and from other such 
funds); and
(c)
"current expenditures" means expenditures incurred for payment of personnel, 
expenditures incurred for the use of goods, facilities and services, expenditures 
incurred for interest on public sector debts and transfers for which there is no 
consideration, but excluding severance payments made to personnel departing from the 
provincial public sector.
2.
The Province is carrying out, and adhering to the terms of, its tax 
simplification program for small and medium-sized businesses set forth in its Law no. 
4994 (or analogous successor law) and regulations thereunder.
3.
Either:  (a) in conformity with a privatization initiative approved by the 
Province’s legislature and in effect as of the Second Tranche Release Date, a winning 
Page  9
private sector bidder has been chosen by the Province to be awarded ownership of at 
least fifty-one percent (51%) of the capital stock, and concomitant managerial and 
operational control, of the Banco de la Provincia de Catamarca (Catamarca Province 
Bank); or (b) the Province has complied with all disbursement conditions, specified in 
its September 16, 1998 agreement (Convenio de Asistencia Financiera para la 
Privatización del Banco de la Provincia de Catamarca; Financial Assistance Agreement) 
with the Borrower’s Fondo Fiduciario para el Desarrollo Provincial (Provincial 
Development Trust Fund), for which the compliance period set forth in said Financial 
Assistance Agreement has passed as of the Second Tranche Release Date.
4.
In conformity with a privatization initiative approved by the Province’s 
legislature and in effect as of the Second Tranche Release Date, a winning private 
sector bidder has been chosen by the Province to be awarded a concession to exercise 
full managerial and operational control of the water and sewerage utility (Obras 
Sanitarias de Catamarca) serving the Province’s Capital, Valle Viejo and Fray M. 
Esquiú departments.
5.
Studies, undertaken by the Province under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, have been completed and resulted in the design of an improved salary scale 
(including a merit-based component) for public employees of the Province, as well as 
in the public announcement by the Province of a plan for voluntary retirement of 
public employees of the Province (without affecting the quality of provincial public 
sector staff) and/or for retraining the number of redundant public employees of the 
Province.
6.
The Province’s
Dirección Provincial de Vialidad (Provincial Roads 
Directorate; DPV) has:
(a)
prepared a multi-annual provincial roads investment program (for road 
improvements, rehabilitation and maintenance) using the Highway Design and Maintenance 
Standards model applied in the project partially financed by Bank loan number 4093-AR, 
and the Province has incorporated at least said program’s one-year financing 
requirements in the Province’s legislatively-approved budget in effect as of the 
Second Tranche Release Date;
(b)
formally adopted a plan of action to improve DPV’s productivity and 
efficiency, which plan calls for, inter alia:  (i) the award of at least one CREMA 
contract for a portion of the provincial road network (a CREMA contract being one 
between DPV and a private sector contractor, whereby the contractor is obligated to 
undertake all phases of road rehabilitation and maintenance work as a single package, 
from design and programming of the works, through the execution of such works, for a 
year or more with respect to the identified portion of the network); (ii) the award of 
at least one annual maintenance contract for a portion of the provincial road network 
not covered by a CREMA contract (said maintenance contract being one between DPV and a 
private sector contractor, whereby the contractor is obligated to execute maintenance 
works for a year with respect to the identified portion of the network); and (iii) 
evaluation through objective indicators of performance under the contracts referred to 
in subparagraphs (b) (i) and (b) (ii) of this paragraph.
(c)
completed a study assessing the economic feasibility of:  (i) the 
conversion of its maintenance units (campamentos) into micro-enterprises, managed 
independently of DPV, to compete for the provision of routine maintenance services for 
the provincial road network; (ii) the conversion of its central workshop into a 
commercially-managed legal entity separate from DPV; (iii) the establishment and 
application of a DPV policy for no longer purchasing its equipment, but renting or 
leasing it instead; (iv) the establishment and application of a DPV policy for 
assisting Province municipalities in the maintenance of their municipal road networks 
through a separate DPV department to be created for providing such assistance; and (v) 
the preparation and execution of a DPV program to undertake road safety and 
environmental improvement labor-intensive actions for the provincial road network.
Public Education Sector
7.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, a level 
of provincial public education sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures equal 
to no more than ninety-six percent (96%) of provincial public education sector 
expenditures.  For purposes of this paragraph, "provincial public education sector 
expenditures" means those of the Province’s Ministerio de Cultura y Educación 
(Ministry of Culture and Education), but excludes transfers made by the Province to 
privately-administered schools.
Page  10
8.
The Province has attained and thereafter maintained a students to teacher 
position (
cargo) ratio of no less than 16:1 for public primary school Educación 
General Básica (General Basic Education; EGB) I and II levels, and no less than 9:1 
for EGB III and Polimodal (ages 15-17) levels (for purposes of this paragraph, a 
teacher position (cargo) is defined as each bloc of twenty teaching hours paid for by 
the Province per week, regardless of whether the teaching paid for actually takes 
place or whether each such bloc is paid for one teacher or shared among various 
teachers).
9.
(a)
Presentation by the Province’s executive branch, to the Province’s 
legislature for approval thereby, of a bill of law to change the Province’s Estatuto 
del Docente (Teachers’ Statute) so that said Teachers’ Statute would:  (i) require 
establishment of a public school teacher salary scheme containing significant 
incentives to reward quality, results and attendance (without increasing incentives 
based on length of service); and (ii) require that public school directors, 
subdirectors and supervisors be selected through a competitive system at local levels 
by Consejos Escolares Consultivos (School Advisory Councils described in Article 68 of 
the Province’s Law no. 4843).
(b)
Issuance by the Province’s executive branch of decrees requiring:  (i) 
introduction of the need and ability to confront behavioral problems, high drop-out 
rates and high repetition rates as factors in the criteria for awarding performance 
bonuses to public schools (grouped by administrative zones) and teachers therein, in 
an effort to motivate greater attention by the best professionals to these problems; 
(ii) establishment of a new public and private school supervision system, with 
decentralized supervision nodes throughout the Province as opposed to the current 
concentrated basing of supervisors in the Province’s capital; and (iii) application to 
all Province public school teaching staff of a tightened annual and sick leave regime 
aimed at reducing the opportunities for abuse of leave rights.
10.
The Province has reduced to no more than twelve (12) the number of training 
institutes (Institutos de Estudios Superiores Estatales) it is operating for purposes 
of, inter alia, training new teachers-to-be.
11.
Entry into effect and initial implementation for public schools in the Province 
of written quality improvement policies aimed at:  (a) lowering student drop-out 
rates; and (b) achieving further integration of low-performance student groups into 
the public school system, assisting such groups to improve their learning performance 
and providing remedial courses therefor.
12.
Full operation of at least ten (10) public schools in the Province under a 
statutorily supported administrative decentralization scheme whereby each of said 
schools, inter alia, self-administers its own resources to meet its maintenance and 
other non-salary operational expenses in consultation with a Consejo Escolar 
Consultivo (School Advisory Council described in Article 68 of the Province’s Law no. 
4843).
13.
For the aggregate of at least three continuous months among the six 
school-in-session months immediately prior to the Second Tranche Release Date, the 
Province has reduced the number of average hours per month for which it has hired 
substitute teachers for its public schools by an amount equal to at least twenty-five 
percent (25%) of the number of average hours per month for which such teachers were 
hired in 1998.
14.
There has entered into effect, by law and accompanying regulations, an improved 
formula (based on objective criteria relating to school quality, number of students 
and their socioeconomic background) for awarding provincial public subsidies to 
private schools in the Province.
Public Health Sector
15.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, a level 
of provincial public health sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures 
(excluding such expenditures consisting of merit pay) equal to no more than 
eighty-five percent (85%) of provincial public health sector expenditures.  For 
purposes of this paragraph, "provincial public health sector expenditures" means those 
of the Province’s Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social (Ministry of Health and Social 
Action), excluding those financed with amounts collected by said Ministry from private 
insurance providers such as the Obra Social de los Empleados Públicos (OSEP) which 
serves provincial public sector employees, as well as those incurred for social action 
programs.
Page  11
16.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for each fiscal year beginning after 
the Effective Date (up to and including the fiscal year during which the Second 
Tranche Release Date falls), annual budgets for the provincial public health sector 
(including OSEP but excluding social action programs) which:
(a)
make available for use in the provincial public health sector an annual 
amount equivalent to at least $98 million; and
(b)
allocate at least eight percent (8%) of said amount to finance public 
health programs involving, inter alia, health promotion, immunizations, reproductive 
health, child health, school health, environmental health, surveillance and sanitary 
control and surveillance and control of communicable diseases.
17.
For at least six continuous months immediately prior to the Second Tranche 
Release Date, provincial public health insurance benefits are being offered to all the 
otherwise uninsured poor residents of at least five (5) health jurisdictions (áreas 
programáticas) of the Province.
18.
Implementation by the Province of a mechanism whereby there is automatic 
deduction, from the payrolls of employees of the Province’s municipalities and other 
insurance premium-contributing OSEP beneficiaries, of their premium contributions for 
OSEP use.
19.
(a)
The Province’s legislature has approved a law, which law and regulations 
thereto have entered into effect, establishing that all the Province’s public sector 
hospitals can recover their own service costs from insurers and pre-paid health plans, 
as well as providing that hospitals engaged in such recovery are eligible, not as an 
entitlement but on the basis of complying with performance targets specified in their 
management contracts of the type referred to in paragraph 20 of this Schedule, for 
receiving special provincial budgetary allocations and having access to special 
provincial stimulus funds; and (b) pursuant to such law and regulations, the 
Province’s public interzonal hospitals Nuevo Hospital Interzonal San Juan Bautista and 
Hospital Interzonal de Niños, during any six continuous months among the nine months 
immediately preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, have been issuing invoices for 
no less than sixty percent (60%), in terms of value, of services rendered to patients 
who have health insurance or are covered by pre-paid health plans and have, up to one 
month prior to the Second Tranche Release Date, collected at least thirty percent 
(30%) of the amounts so invoiced or initiated legal action to collect such amounts if 
overdue (the percentage targets set forth herein refer to both hospitals in the 
aggregate; each hospital need not by itself meet the targets strictly for its own 
receivables).
20.
Separate management contracts (requiring hospital compliance with targets set 
forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Province to the Bank), have been 
entered into between the Province and each of its public interzonal hospitals Nuevo 
Hospital Interzonal San Juan Bautista and Hospital Interzonal de Niños, and each of 
said hospitals has, for any six continuous months during the nine months immediately 
preceding the Second Tranche Release Date, met the targets set forth in its particular 
management contract.
SCHEDULE 4
Provincial Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
Public Finances
1.
The Province has incurred, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, provincial 
public sector total expenditures equal to or less than provincial public sector total 
revenues.  For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
unless the text indicates otherwise, "provincial public sector" means all 
components of the provincial public sector (except for parastatals and social security 
entities) for which funding is allocated as part of the annual consolidated provincial 
budgets approved by the Province’s legislature;
(b)
"total revenues" means:  (i) current revenues as defined in paragraph 1 
(b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, but including federal revenue-sharing transfers 
for the financing of public works expenditures; and (ii) capital revenues; and
(c)
"total expenditures" means: (i) current expenditures as defined in 
Page  12
paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) capital expenditures.
2.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, a level of 
provincial public sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures (excluding 
severance payments) equal to no more than fifty-six percent (56%) of provincial public 
sector current revenues (as defined in paragraph 1 (b) (i) of this Schedule).
3.
The Province’s principal outstanding on its public sector debt (as of no earlier 
than 45 days prior to the Third Tranche Release Date, and including overdue amounts 
owed by the Province to its employees and suppliers, but excluding:
(a)
debt assumed by the Province as a result of compliance with the 
conditions set forth in paragraphs 3 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 5 (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
debt assumed by the Province to finance severance payments made to 
personnel departing from the provincial public sector; and
(c)
debt assumed by the Province after the date of this Agreement, for 
activities financed by public international multilateral credit institutions 
(including debt assumed by the Province through a subloan under an umbrella loan from 
such an institution, which umbrella loan was contracted between such an institution 
and a non-Province party prior to the date of this Agreement)),
is equal to or less than ninety-nine percent (99%) of provincial public sector total 
revenues (as defined in paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule).
4.
The Province has, for the period covered by any six continuous months among the 
nine months immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, increased the 
average amount of revenues collected per month through its property tax (impuesto 
inmobiliario) by an amount equal to at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the average 
amount (which average amount was 291,583 Argentine pesos) so collected per month 
during 1997.
5.
Either:  (a) at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the capital stock, and 
concomitant operational control, of the Banco de la Provincia de Catamarca (Catamarca 
Province Bank) has been sold by the Province to the winning private sector bidder 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; or (b) the Province has 
complied with all disbursement conditions, specified in its September 16, 1998 
agreement (Convenio de Asistencia Financiera para la Privatización del Banco de la 
Provincia de Catamarca; Financial Assistance Agreement) with the Borrower’s Fondo 
Fiduciario para el Desarrollo Provincial (Provincial Development Trust Fund), for 
which the compliance period set forth in said Financial Assistance Agreement has 
passed as of the Third Tranche Release Date.
6.
(a)
A water sector regulatory public agency, established through legislation 
of the Province, is staffed and operating with sufficient budget and appropriate 
written internal rules and procedures; and (b) the water and sewerage utility (Obras 
Sanitarias de Catamarca) serving the Province’s Capital, Valle Viejo and Fray M. 
Esquiú departments, under a formal policy adopted thereby and consistent with 
applicable law and regulations, is offering water and sewerage service to indigent 
customers in said area at subsidized prices which allow said customers to benefit from 
the utility’s services.
7.
All public employees of the Province are being paid their salaries according to 
the salary scale referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
8.
The Province’s
Dirección Provincial de Vialidad (DPV):
(a)
has initiated implementation of its investment program referred to in 
paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
is conducting, and publicizing the results of, annual surveys of the 
physical condition of its provincial road network, as well as of the nature and volume 
of the traffic thereon, all with sufficient budgetary resources allocated to the 
carrying out and publication of such surveys; and
(c)
is implementing the plan of action referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement by having, inter alia:  (i) in conformity with the 
Province’s public procurement rules, chosen a winning private sector bidder to be 
awarded at least one of the CREMA contracts referred to in paragraph 6 (b) (i) of 
Page  13
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) in conformity with the Province’s public 
procurement rules, chosen a winning private sector bidder to be awarded at least one 
of the maintenance contracts referred to in paragraph 6 (b) (ii) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Public Education Sector
9.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, a level of 
provincial public education sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures equal to 
no more than ninety-four percent (94%) of provincial public education sector 
expenditures.  For purposes of this paragraph, "provincial public education sector 
expenditures" means those of the Province’s Ministerio de Cultura y Educación 
(Ministry of Culture and Education), but excludes transfers made by the Province to 
privately-administered schools.
10.
The province has attained and thereafter maintained a students to teacher 
position (cargo) ratio of no less than 20:1 for public primary school Educación 
General Básica (General Basic Education; EGB) I and II levels, and no less than 10:1 
for EGB III and Polimodal (ages 15-17) levels (for purposes of this paragraph, a 
teacher position (cargo) is defined as each bloc of twenty teaching hours paid for by 
the Province per week, regardless of whether the teaching paid for actually takes 
place or whether each such bloc is paid for one teacher or shared among various 
teachers).
11.
Approval by the Province’s legislature, and entry into effect accompanied by 
regulations thereto, of changes (referred to in paragraph 9 (a) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement) to the Province’s Estatuto del Docente (Teachers’ Statute), as well as 
continued implementation of the decrees referred to in paragraph 9 (b) of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
12.
The Province has not increased to more than twelve (12) the number of training 
institutes (Institutos de Estudios Superiores Estatales) it is operating for any 
purpose.
13.
The Province has carried out an evaluation of the impact of the public school 
quality improvement policies referred to in paragraph 11 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and designed a proposal, based on the outcome of such evaluation, for 
improving such policies.
14.
(a)
Full operation of all public schools in the Province under the 
statutorily supported administrative decentralization scheme referred to in paragraph 
12 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) operation of at least ten such schools 
with the added feature of self-administration by each of said ten schools of its own 
resources to meet its salary and other recurrent expenses as well.
15.
For the aggregate of at least three continuous months among the six 
school-in-session months immediately prior to the Third Tranche Release Date, the 
Province has reduced the number of average hours per month for which it has hired 
substitute teachers for its public schools by an amount equal to at least fifty 
percent (50%) of the number of average hours per month for which such teachers were 
hired in 1998.
16.
The formula for awarding provincial public subsidies to private schools in the 
Province, referred to in paragraph 14 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, is being 
implemented, since the date of entry into effect of the law referred to in paragraph 
14 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, at least for all private schools which had not 
received such subsidies prior to that date.
Public Health Sector
17.
The Province has attained, for the period covered by any six continuous months 
among the nine months immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, a level of 
provincial public health sector personnel salary and benefits expenditures (excluding 
such expenditures consisting of merit pay) equal to no more than eighty percent (80%) 
of provincial public health sector expenditures.  For purposes of this paragraph, 
"provincial public health sector expenditures" means those of the Province’s 
Ministerio de Salud y Acción Social (Ministry of Health and Social Action), excluding 
those financed with amounts collected by said Ministry from private insurance 
providers such as the Obra Social de los Empleados Públicos (OSEP) which serves 
provincial public sector employees, as well as incurred for social action programs.
Page  14
18.
The Province’s legislature has approved, for each fiscal year beginning after 
the Effective Date (up to and including the fiscal year during which the Third Tranche 
Release Date falls), annual budgets for the provincial public health sector (including 
OSEP but excluding social action programs) which:
(a)
make available for use in the provincial public health sector an annual 
amount equivalent to at least $98 million; and
(b)
allocate at least eight percent (8%) of said amount to finance public 
health programs involving, inter alia, health promotion, immunizations, reproductive 
health, child health, school health, environmental health, surveillance and sanitary 
control and surveillance and control of communicable diseases.
19.
Pursuant to the law and regulations referred to in paragraph 19 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, Province public hospitals (including the Nuevo Hospital Interzonal San 
Juan Bautista and Hospital Interzonal de Niños), accounting in the aggregate for at 
least seventy percent (70%) of all province public hospital expenditures during any 
six continuous months among the nine months immediately preceding the Third Tranche 
Release Date, have, again during any six continuous months among the nine months 
immediately preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, been issuing invoices for no 
less than eighty percent (80%), in terms of value, of services rendered to patients 
who have health insurance or are covered by pre-paid health plans and have, up to one 
month prior to the Third Tranche Release Date, collected at least sixty percent (60%) 
of the amounts so invoiced or initiated legal action to collect such amounts if 
overdue (the percentage targets set forth herein refer to said hospitals in the 
aggregate; each hospital need not by itself meet the targets strictly for its own 
receivables).
20.
For at least six continuous months immediately prior to the Third Tranche 
Release Date, provincial public health insurance benefits are being offered to all 
otherwise uninsured poor residents of at least ten (10) health jurisdictions (áreas 
programáticas) of the Province (including the five (5) such jurisdictions referred to 
in paragraph 17 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, with the proviso that there have been 
no interruption in such offer of insurance in those five (5) jurisdictions since the 
Second Tranche Release Date).
21.
Separate management contracts (requiring hospital compliance with targets set 
forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Province to the Bank), have been 
entered into between the Province and Province public hospitals (including the Nuevo 
Hospital Interzonal San Juan Bautista and Hospital Interzonal de Niños), accounting in 
the aggregate for at least fifty percent (50%) of all province public hospital 
expenditures during any six continuous months among the nine months immediately 
preceding the Third Tranche Release Date, and each of said hospitals has, for any six 
continuous months during the nine months immediately preceding the Third Tranche 
Release Date, met the targets set forth in its particular management contract.
22.
For any six continuous months among the nine months immediately preceding the 
Third Tranche Release Date, OSEP has attained an operational balance whereby its 
expenditures do not exceed its revenues, while still serving its beneficiaries 
effectively.
