Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2720 
Project Name 
SL: Programmatic Governance Reform and Growth Grant 1 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration (40%); Sub-national government 
administration (20%); Mining (20%); General industry (20%)  
Project ID 
P095575 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Contact Person:  John Benjamin, Minister of Finance 
Tel: 232-22-228-616 
 
232-22-225-826 
Fax: 232-22-224-274 
Email:  minfin@sierratel.sl  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [x ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[x ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 25, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 8, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 7, 2006 
The proposed first Programmatic Governance Reform and Growth Grant is a one-tranche 
quick-disbursing budget support grant of US$10 million.  It is designed to help the 
Government implement its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) in the context of an 
emerging framework for multi-donor budget support (MDBS) and the likelihood of a 
final round of HIPC debt relief.  This would be achieved by i) consolidating core capacity 
for public resource management; ii) building capacity for PRS implementation in selected 
sector ministries and local governments; and iii) promoting private sector development. 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Rapidly disbursing, policy based financing is needed for three reasons:  i) to support the 
Government in its implementation of its new Poverty Reduction Strategy; ii) to build on 
the good track record established by the Government thus far; and iii) the need for 
budgetary support to help close the financing gap. 
 
Implementing the PRS Agenda.
 
While post-conflict needs are waning, the emerging 
PRS agenda facing the Government will be challenging.  The PRS will be carried out in a 
situation characterized by growing capacity for public resource management in core 
institutions, weak capacity in the sectoral ministries, early decentralization, ongoing 
fiscal adjustment and an urgent need for job creation and income growth in the private 
sector. 
 
Page  2
Building on a Good Track Record:
 
Rapidly disbursing, policy based financing from 
the Bank can be justified on the basis of the Government’s commitment and its track 
record.  The leadership is strongly committed to consolidating the peace and building a 
better future.  A solid macroeconomic track record has been established with a series of 
six successful reviews under the first IMF PRGF.  The Government has also established a 
good track record of successful reforms in public sector management including the 
installation of an Integrated Financial Management Information System in the Office of 
the Accountant-General, the introduction of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework 
for better planning and budgeting, changes in expenditure controls and a series of Public 
Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS).  A new Public Procurement Act was enacted in 
December 2004 and a new Government Budgeting and Accountability Act was signed 
into law in April 2005.  There is also a growing track record of public service delivery:  
provision of public services is expanding across the nation, notably with regard to 
primary schooling.   
 
Budgetary Support and Financing Gap.
 
Approximately 50 percent of the domestically 
financed portion of government spending (excluding wages and interest) was used for 
poverty reducing activities and programs between 2002 and 2004.
1
Much of this 
spending has been effective, with substantial increases in service provision across the 
country.  Spending is also becoming more efficient:  spending on primary schooling, for 
example, has benefited from reforms motivated by the PETS in 2003 and 2004.  The 
budget, however, has been heavily dependent upon external assistance, with revenues 
financing an average of only 46 percent of expenditures between 2002 and 2004.  Budget 
support from the AfDB, DfID, EU and the World Bank plays a critical role in financing a 
demanding expenditure program.  Between 2002 and 2004, budget support in the form of 
grants, gross credits and debt relief financed approximately 50 percent of total 
expenditures.  
 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
In light of the above, the proposed Development Policy Grant in support of the 
Government’s PRS implementation would aim at:  i) facilitating good governance 
through public financial management reforms, ii) supporting capacity building for PRS 
implementation in selected sector ministries and local governments and iii) continuing to 
promote private sector development. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed Development Policy Grant, and the accompanying programmatic 
framework, will support selected elements of the Government’s Poverty Reduction 
Strategy.  The policy areas supported by the proposed grant are aligned with medium-
term objectives under each of the three PRSP (and CAS) pillars and build on the results 
achieved under ERRG IV as well as the previous and existing support provided by AfDB, 
DfID and EC.  The policy content is informed by recent analytical work, notably the 
CFAA, PER, HIPC AAP, the FIAS Administrative Barriers Report, the Doing Business 
1
Per the definition agreed for the HIPC Initiative. 
Page  3
report, the Financial Sector Assessment Program mission, the Mining Sector Review, and 
the Education Country Status Report.   
 
While the PRSP was designed through a participatory process involving all levels of 
society, the choice of policy areas and the proposed actions are further supported by a 
series of consultations with stakeholder ministries and agencies.  These were arranged 
through the Ministry of Finance during the pre-appraisal and appraisal stages of 
preparation. 
 
In contrast to the previous ERRC series, the Program Matrix is built upon the PRSP and 
takes the form of a three year program jointly developed by Government and the MDBS 
partners.  Given the normal lag between inputs (actions and reforms) and outputs and 
outcomes, the proposed programmatic series will include triggers and milestones to be 
measured in the spring of 2006, 2007 and 2008.  
 
The proposed grant will provide critical resources to support the reform agenda in the 
following key areas:  good governance, decentralization, public financial management, 
human resource development, private sector development (particularly in mining), 
education and health
.
The grant will contribute to economic recovery, growth and poverty reduction by 
providing foreign exchange resources for imports of essential commodities, by providing 
financial resources to the Government budget to finance priority public expenditures and 
by supporting reforms to attract private investment.  By helping to close the financing 
gap in 2006, the grant will also contribute to maintaining macroeconomic stability and 
low inflation. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The predecessor of this operation, ERRC IV, was rated a structural adjustment credit 
governed under Operational Directive 8.60, and therefore did not require an 
environmental assessment.  The policy reforms supported by the proposed operation are 
broadly similar, which would suggest that it would also not require and environmental 
assessment.  The grant will continue, via general budgetary support, to reinforce the 
government’s own capacity for assessing environmental safeguards issues and 
implementing environmental safeguards under national regulation.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
       US$ 
millions 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
      
 
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
$10 
Total 
        $10 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Page  4
Contact:  Douglas Addison 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-1188 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Daddison@worldbank.org
