Report No. 23501
Report No: I074641 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/08/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: JAMAICA         Project ID: P074641
Project: HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT (SECOND PHASE OF THE
MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PREVENTION & CONTROL APL FOR THE CARIBBEAN)        Task
Team Leader: Girindre K. Beeharry
Appraisal Date: December 5, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 15.00
Bank Approval: February 12, 2002         IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHH     Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
This project is part of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for the Caribbean Region which provides
loans and/or credits to governments in the Region to finance their
HIV/AIDS Programs. Jamaica has met the five eligibility criteria for
country participation (see Section D.4) and is ready to be included in the
second phase of the APL.
The project aims to support selected activities of Jamaica's National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (NSP). Using a multisectoral approach, it would
assist the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) in curbing the spread of the HIV
epidemic through (a) the expansion of preventive programs targeted to
high-risk groups as well as the general population; (b) the strengthening
of treatment, care and support for persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA);
and (c) the strengthening of Jamaica's multisectoral capacity to respond
to the epidemic.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Interventions financed by the project are grouped into three components.
Component 1: Preventive programs targeted at high-risk groups and the
general population --US$7.82 million (47T of Project cost).
This component firmly focuses on the prevention in those population groups
that are most at risk of being infected or of transmitting the infection.
In Jamaica these include commercial sex workers (10W-20t prevalence), men
who have sex with other men (259 prevalence), prison inmates (12w
prevalence) and persons with past exposure to sexually transmissible
infections (6t prevalence). A variety of partners (NGOs, other Ministries,
PLWHA, etc) would be involved in reaching these populations. Such
partnerships have been shown to be effective in reaching out to
marginalized high-risk groups in many countries. The project would
support activities such as identifying and working with informal networks
among these high-risk groups, developing strategies to increase their
demand for HIV/AIDS services, outreach programs, training of peer
educators, strengthening drop-in centers with Voluntary Counselling and
Testing (VCT) and STI services for high-risk groups, and strengthening STI



syndromic management at primary care level.
This component seeks to target young people, especially girls, whose rate
of infection is higher than the national average. This would be done in a
variety of ways (peer education, training of teachers and counselors) and
in partnership with strategic partners (youth organizations, schools).
This component also supports the expansion of prevention of
mother-to-child HIV transmission (MTCT) which accounts for 8% of new
infections in Jamaica. The project would support the dissemination and
implementation of the MTCT protocol, the training of health workers in the
application of this protocol, universal (voluntary) screening for HIV at
ante-natal clinics, and providing pregnant HIV-positive women with MTCT
interventions. The government would procure the anti-retroviral for MTCT
from counterpart funding according to the guidelines described in section
Dl. Although the blood transfusion system in Jamaica is reasonably safe
(only 8 cases of HIV infection have been attributed to blood transfusions
since the start of the epidemic), it places excessive reliance on
replacement rather than voluntary donors. Since replacement donors are
typically riskier than voluntary donors, risks of infection through blood
transfusion during the window period (i.e, time between infection and
sero-conversion) potentially still exist. The project would thus support
a review and amendment of the national blood transfusion policy,
disseminate the revised national blood transfusion policy, and strengthen
the recruitment of voluntary blood donors.
The project will contribute to maintaining a high level of awareness and
behavior change in the general community and in those communities that
display high prevalence rates. The project will thus finance activities
such as: mass media awareness campaigns, behavior change communication,
peer education, condom promotion and increased condom availability in
traditional and nontraditional outlets; targeted community campaigns in
high prevalence areas (Kingston/St. Andrew, Hanover, St. Catherine, St.
Ann, St. James, Westmoreland), expanding VCT services at ANC clinics and
supporting the implementation of work place intervention programs.
This component also seeks to support interventions aimed at reducing
stigma and discrimination against PLWHA as well as high-risk groups such
as MSM. Stigma and discrimination are prevalent in Jamaica and make
people unwilling to seek testing and encourage the concealing of their HIV
status, thus contributing to driving the epidemic underground. Among
other things, the project seeks to identify strategic partners (the media,
sports and pop culture celebrities, religious, business and community
leaders), mobilizing their support for the cause and offering them
training through HIV/AIDS sensitization workshops. It will coordinate
these partners in BCC campaigns with a message against stigma and
discrimination, and assist the government to reinforce the framework for
the protection of human rights of PLWHA, their families and other
vulnerable groups (for PLWHA, this concerns confidentiality, employment,
housing, access to quality and compassionate care, mandatory testing for
employment insurance and immigration). PLWHA will be involved (especially
through JN+) in mass media and community campaigns to put a human face to
the disease and sensitize the general population. In an effort to reduce
discrimination by health workers, post-exposure prophylaxis will be made
available to them through the Project.
Finally, this component will support innovative demand-driven
-2 -



subprojects. NGOs, CBOs, and other eligible implementing agencies would
prepare subprojects (with appropriate technical assistance) and submit
them for funding. The selection criteria and processes will be detailed
in the Project Operation Manual. Subprojects in areas where NGOs, CBOs,
etc., have a comparative advantage (e.g., reaching marginalized groups)
would be of special interest to the project.
Component 2: Basic health care, treatment, and support for PLWHA--US$ 3.71
million (23w of Project cost).
Under this component, the project would aim to increase the capacity to
provide basic treatment, care and support for PLWHA in Jamaica. The
project would, once again, seek partnerships outside the public health
system to ensure effective delivery of care and support. A first set of
activities includes developing and disseminating technical guidelines and
operational procedures for HIV/AIDS care and treatment (including the
management of common OIs, STIs and TB), training health workers in
HIV/AIDS care and treatment, disseminating best-practice guidelines,
defining a package of basic drugs for OI management, increasing the
availability of and access to such basic OI drugs at hospitals and STI
clinics; and establishing an HIV/AIDS/STI specialty center in each region
with the capacity to provide comprehensive ambulatory care for PLWHA.
A second set of activities centers on care and support outside the health
system; this includes the development of home care guidelines; training
community health workers in care and support for PLWHA, providing home
care and support through visits (by community health workers, NGOs, CBOs,
churches) to PLWHA and their families, establishing a network of social
support for PLWHA, which is integrated in the existing social safety net,
strengthening and expanding the hospice network, and establishing half-way
care facilities. NGOs and CBOs would be key in providing home and
community care and support for PLWHA in Jamaica. The project would enable
NGOs and CBOs to deliver HIV/AIDS care and support through technical and
financial assistance as well as capacity-building (the subproject
mechanism would also apply for these types of activities).
A third set of activities centers on the diagnostic infrastructure that
underlies treatment and care. Improving the capacity, efficiency and
quality of the laboratory system thus involves providing selected
diagnostic equipment (hardware and software) and test kits for HIV/AIDS
and STIs, ensuring adequate staffs and skills, developing operational
guidelines for laboratory logistics, linking the laboratory system through
an integrated computer network; and improving safe handling of medical
material and waste through the provision of incinerators, autoclaves,
waste disposal supplies as well as training of health workers.
Component 3: Strengthening of national capacity for an intensified
response to the epidemic-- US$ 4.82 million (29w of Project cost).
This component would aim to improve the technical, managerial and
implementation capacity of the key players within and outside the health
sector, in the Government as well as in civil society who are involved in
the fight against HIV/AIDS. Activities would include enhancing the
planning, management and implementation capacity of the National
STI/HIV/AIDS Program at the regional and parish levels, strengthening the
role of the NAC, and the role of other line ministries, of private and
voluntary sectors, and of civil society. Specific activities would
include supporting the development of the HIV/AIDS work programs of the
regional health authorities, elevating the status of the NAC to a Working
Group for the National Planning Council on HIV/AIDS, strengthening the NAC
and PACs' capacity to coordinate, mobilize and support implementing
-3 -



agencies in the fight against HIV/AIDS, coordinating and providing
technical assistance for the formulation of HIV/AIDS work plans in
relevant line ministries, and capacity building for NGOs and CBOs through
training and workshops.
Part of an adequate response involves improving the information base for
better decision-making. To that effect, the project will support the
strengthening of the HIV/AIDS/STI surveillance system by developing a
surveillance plan, designing and implementing second-generation
surveillance (i.e., with an emphasis on behavioral surveillance) for
HIV/AIDS, especially among high-risk groups, setting up an integrated data
management system for National Public Health Laboratories, hospital
laboratories, STI and ANC clinics, sentinel surveillance sites, and
hospital pharmacies, and by increasing Jamaica's capacity for operational
research and dissemination of best practices in priority areas of the
National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS.    The implementation of the
surveillance system with an emphasis on behavioral surveillance would be a
key feature of the project. It would provide information on where risky
behaviors persist, so that the project's prevention activities can be
adjusted in a timely fashion to the epidemic's new directions, rather
than reactively to where the epidemic has been. The findings from the
surveillance system will be regularly drawn upon by the PCU to guide the
implementation of project prevention activities.
A well-designed and functioning M&E system would be critical for the
implementation of the project to provide coordinated feedback to the
developers, implementation agencies, and decision makers at different
levels of the system. The PCU would be the coordinator of project
monitoring and evaluation, with support from the HIV/AIDS unit of the MOH,
any HIV/AIDS units established in other line ministries, UNAIDS/PAHO/WHO,
as part of their country assistance programs. Early in the project, an M&E
sub-unit would be established within the PCU. The M&E sub-unit would use
the core indicators in Annex 1 as its framework for M&E and develop a data
collecting system with formal links to other partners who have the
expertise for generation of information and analysis. An analysis of the
adequacy of the current system to generate the data required is summarized
in Annex 17. Every six months, the M&E sub-unit would compile and
consolidate data related to input/output indicators (i.e. expenditures and
disbursement data) into an implementation report (see Annex 17 for
dissemination strategy). It can also contract universities, NGOs,
independent firms or international agencies to conduct specific surveys
for the purpose of baseline and impact evaluation. The Annual
Implementation Review would involve the PCU, NAP, NAC, representatives of
NGOs, IBRD as well as key external partners such as USAID, CAREC and PAHO.
Mid-term and end-of-project evaluations will be conducted by an external
agency. Periodic external evaluations of selected pilot interventions as
well as of the project as a whole are to be carried out as they will
provide invaluable lessons in project design and implementation.
This component also includes project management costs, including payment
for PCU staff, operating costs, office set up, technical assistance, and
training.
Components:
Component #1: Preventive Programs Targeted at High-risk Groups and the
General Population
-4-



Component #2: Basic Health Care, Treatment and Support for PLWHA
Component #3: Strengthening of National Capacity for an Intensified
Response to the Epidemic
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
-5-



II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      12/6/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 12/6/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   1/8/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)        Not Available
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
- 6 -



Task Team Leader:        Girindre K. Beeharry     12/14/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         12/14/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Charles C. Griffin       12/14/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 7 -



