Page  1
February
21, 2001
The Honorable
Dr. Omar Davies
Minister of Finance and Planning
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30
National Heroes Circle
Kinston
4
Jamaica
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Preparation of Caribbean HIV/AIDS 
Prevention Control Project
-
Grant No. TF026633
Dear Minister:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank
’s agreement, as administrator of grant
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding seventy five
thousand U.S. Dollars (US$75,000) (the Grant) to Jamaica (the Recipient).
This grant
is being extended to the Recipient as part of a larger regional grant to Barbados,
Belize, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. 
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago
(the Participating 
Countries).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank
carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this Letter
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
JAMAICA
By
/s/
Omar Davies
Minister of Finance and Planning
Date:
March 8, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient’s Ministry of Health in the 
preparation of the Caribbean HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project, which has as its 
main objective to help the countries in the Caribbean region, including the Recipient,
in developing national HIV/AIDS programs comprising basic prevention, basic treatment 
and basic care
(the Project).
The activities
(the Activities) for which the Grant is 
Page  2
given are as follows
:
(a)
carrying out of epidemiological assessments in the territory of the 
Recipient to: (i) estimate causes and burden of HIV/AIDS by age and sex, as well as, 
other major associated risks;
(ii) evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a selected set 
of the Recipient
’s current health programs;
(iii) identify potential new interventions 
against HIV/AIDS; and (iv) implement the recommendations of said assessments to 
promote policy debate in identifying prevention and control priorities
(these
Activities are estimated to cost US$25,000 equivalent);
(b)
carrying out of an assessment of the current HIV/AIDS programmatic and 
service network’s capacity in the territory of the Recipient, including, inter alia; 
managerial and organizational structure; availability, location and staffing of the
facilities; and population served
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$25,000 
equivalent); and
(c)
design and preparation of: (i) policy options and alternative HIV/AIDS 
prevention and control strategies in the territory of the Recipient;
(ii) a demand–
based funding proposal for the Project; and
(iii) a monitoring and impact evaluation 
plan
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$25,000 equivalent).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.
The
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the
Activities.
The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of
its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date).
Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund
Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date
shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.
After the Closing
Date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the
Bank and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank by the provisions
of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof)
in connection with the
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) 
the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw
its support to the Project; or
(b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.
The Recipient shall have no right to
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter
Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
Page  3
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement
15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated November 2000 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published by the Bank
in January
1997
and revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services for some of the Activities under paragraph 1 (a), (b) and (c) of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection of Consultants.
3.
Services rendered by consulting firms for some of the Activities under paragraph 
1
(a),
(b)
and
(c) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1
and
3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines
(Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
4.
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1 
(a), (b), and (c) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
