Document of                     FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2992-Co
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
March 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1979                  Average Calendar 1980 (Estimated)
Currency Unit -   Peso - Col$                        US$1   - Col$47.274
US$1               Col$42.587                        Col$1  - US$0.02115
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            2        '   3.281 feet (ft)       2
1 square kilomet r (km )            0.386 square mile (mi )
1 cubic meter (m )              = 35.315 cubic feet (ft )
1 cubic meter                   - 264.2 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                 -  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t;metric;l,OOO kg)       -  1.000 tons (sh. tons)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA                   Canadian International Development Agency
CNR                    Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS             Colombian Port Authority
CONPES                 Social and Economic Policy Council
DAAC                   Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics
DNP                    Department of National Planning
DRI                    Integrated Rural Development
FAN                    National Aeronautics Fund
FEDECAFE               National Coffee Federation
FNCV                   National Rural Roads Fund
FONADE                 National Projects Fund
INCORA                 Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
IDEMA                  Government Agricultural Marketing Institution
MOPT                   Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
PIN                    National Integration Plan
UNDP                   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia.
Borrower:      National Feeder Roads Fund (FNCV).
Amount         US$33 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayment in seventeen years, including four years
of grace at 9.6% interest per annum.
Project
Description:  The project would assist the Government in its efforts
to foster agricultural development by facilitating
farmers' access to markets and by lowering transport
costs through the construction and rehabilitation of
rural roads. It would also strengthen rural road
maintenance and FNCV's overall administration. The
project consists of: (a) construction of about 710 km
of rural roads; (b) rehabilitation of about 710 km;
(c) engineering for about 710 km; (d) purchase of hand
tools for labor-intensive maintenance; (e) procurement
of maintenance equipment and related spare parts; and
(f) technical assistance to improve FNCV's management
information system. The project faces no unusual risks.
The works included under the project are considered
to be well within the capability of FNCV. The Working
Capital Fund to be set up under the project should
ensure the timely availability of financial resources
and thus provide for speedy project execution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                           Local          Foreign         Total
(US$ million equivalent)
I.   Construction and Rehabilitation Program
Engineering                           .47             .38            .85
Construction                        15.27           12.49          27.76
Rehabilitation                       7.63            6.25          13.88
Supervision                          2.34            1.91           4.25
Sub Total                25.71           21.03          46.74
II. Maintenance Program
Road Maintenance Equipment           1.14            7.60           8.74
Hand tools                            .11             .09            .20
Sub Total                 1.25            7.69           8.94
III. Technical Assistance                   .02             .09           .11
Base Cost I-III         26.98           28.81          55.79
IV.  Price Contingencies                  3.02            4.19           7.21
V.   Total Project Cost III-IV 1/        30.00           33.00          63.00
Financing Plan:
Proposed IBRD Loan                    -             33.00          33.00
FNCV Highway Fund                   30.00             -            30.00
Total Funds              30.00           33.00          63.00
Estimated Disbursements:                    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
TUiS$ million equivalent)
Annual
Gross disbursement                 7.90   10.30    9.15    5.65
Cumulative                             7.90   18.20   27.35   33.00
Rate of Return:    At least 11%.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3226b-CO, dated March 9, 1981.
1/   No physical contingency has been included as the actual roads to be
constructed will be selected once all the preparatory work has been
completed. For the first year of the project, twenty-three roads
have already been selected by FNCV and approved by the Bank.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$33 million to help
finance the Rural Roads Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         An Economic Report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. An updating report is being prepared and
will be distributed soon. This section on the economy reflects the major
findings of the forthcoming report. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.         The Colombian economy made considerable progress over the past
quarter century. From a largely rural and agricultural base in the 1950s,
it evolved to a more integrated urban-industrial and services orientation.
The productive structure of the economy was broadened appreciably and output
in both the agricultural and industrial sectors became more diversified.
Public sector investment and output came to play a greater role in the economy,
primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of decentralized
agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater reliance on foreign trade
allowed the external sector of the economy to grow, with non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-industrial
coloration of economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas gave rise to rapid rural-urban migration as rural labor sought to
take advantage of higher productivity and better paying jobs in the major
metropolitan areas. Financial and capital markets evolved pari-passu with the
growing financial needs of the industrial and services sectors of the economy,
and Colombia has become an active participant in international capital markets.
The economy has grown more resilient to external shocks as a result of the
structural changes that have occurred.
4.         Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-79
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to
3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after
1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate.  Gretater economic
1/   Substantially unchanged from report for the Playas Power Project
(No. P-2953-CO, February 10, 1981).



and educational opportunities for women, rapid rural/urban migration, rising
per capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs
contributed to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently
growing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of
women now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is
expected to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services over the past quarter century brought about a substantial improvement
in the welfare of the poorest income groups in Colombia. As a result of
improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by about 50%
and life expectancy rose from 50 years to 62 years. The child mortality rate
declined from 17 per thousand in the early 1960s to 9 per thousand in the mid
1970s.  Infant mortality, one of the best indicators of welfare, fell to 98
per thousand in the mid-1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the early 1950s.
School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all grade levels
since 1960, and by the late 1970s, 91% of urban children aged 7 to 14 were
enrolled in school. The poorest income groups, including those in rural
areas, have experienced the greatest increases in electricity and water
services in recent years and have benefited more than the average of the
population from services of the national health system. In spite of this
progress, Colombia remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small
modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base.
Development has been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country,
public services are not available to a large proportion of the rural and urban
populations, unemployment and underemployment are relatively high, and income
and wealth distributions are skewed. The coverage of health care is still
deficient and adequate housing is not available to a substantial proportion of
the population. Papid migration to the three major metropolitan areas has
created urban development problems, with attendant social difficulties.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past twenty five years
were the result of Government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors,
provide the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an
effective institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s
development policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff
protection and the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector.
It was during this period that the country's major communication and trans-
portation networks were completed and the transformation to semi-industrial
economic structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s the prospects for
further import substitution were substantially diminished and the country
was in the midst of a period of great economic uncertainty, with economic
activity and the balance of payments heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-
looking development strategy. Fxport promotion policies, including periodic
exchange rate devaluations and export tax rebates, were introduced and the



authorities began lowering tariffs and freeing capital markets from controls
as means of raising efficiency and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian
goods in external markets. These measures were highly successful in relieving
the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth. However, by the
mid-1970s the economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily
by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic
budget deficits.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses pre-
vailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective,
the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp
increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from cofifee exports,
together with some official surrender of foreign exchange from il:Legal exports,
caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimu-
lated aggregated demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accele-
rated and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urbani areas.
Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated surpluses averaging about 5.8% of GDP during the 1976-79 period, and
by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen to about
US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months imports of goods and non-factor
services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has had
a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to economic
and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was lowered and
the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with some adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit (including interest rate ceilings,
directed credit, portfolio requirements, etc.), thereby reducing the financing
available to the private sector via the official capital market. These
controls encouraged the development of a flourishing extrabank market in which
credit was available albeit at high interest rates and for short maturities.
9.        Although the stabilization measures were kept virtually unchanged
from early 1977, they were moderately successful in restraining aggregate
demand growth; however, relatively high inflation persisted. In 1979, consumer
prices rose by nearly 30%. Nevertheless, real GDP growth remained strong,
rising by about 5% for the year, led by a good performance in services, manu-
facturing and agriculture. However, construction and mining activities
declined. In response to the increasing stabilizing effects on aLggregate
demand and the troublesome financial market distortions caused by inflation
and the extended period of monetary restraint, the authorities began in late
1979 to adjust the stabilization program. The rate of peso devaluation was
advanced to increase export incentives and reduce borrowing abroaLd, and in
early 1980, credit restraints were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements.



At the same time, interest rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks
and development finance companies - and on the lending therefrom - were
freed from controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures
the authorities further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy,
supported by a new issue of short-term certificates, of not expanding the
subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the
resources captured from private savings for their financing. The authorities
also increased the surveillance and control of the illegal export trade.
10.       The effects of the above measures were not immediately noticeable.
Industrial sector growth slowed during the first half of 1980 and construction
activity, which had fallen sharply in 1979, continued to slacken. Agricul-
tural output was affected by drought, high incidence of disease and rising
fertilizer costs. Consequently, real GDP growth is likely to decline to
3-4% in 1980. With world coffee prices at relatively high levels for most of
the year, Colombia's balance of payments in 1980 is estimated to have regis-
tered an over-all surplus in the US$700 million range. This would maintain net
official reserves at about 11 months imports of goods and non-factor services.
Colombia's consolidated public finances are estimated to have recorded a large
surplus in 1980 for the fourth consecutive year, again mainly because of
increased earnings on foreign exchange holdings and large receipts from the
coffee tax. Inflation continued to be a problem in 1980 however, despite the
slow down in economic activity, with consumer prices increasing by about 26%
for the year. The major challenge facing the Colombian authorities over the
next few years will be to bring about a reduction in the inflation rate, while
at the same time raising investment to the level required for private sector
expansion.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of increased
productivity and maximum economic growth, improved distribution of income and
greater welfare for all Colombians will require a major effort to remove from
the economy the constraints of inadequate economic and social infrastructure
and insufficient demand. Infrastructure needs are most pressing in the
energy and transportation sectors.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently promulgated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional automomy and the uniting of regional growth centers
through improved transport, communication and financial links are directed
towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of the
PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contribut-
ing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy



- 5 -
objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, priv.te foreign investment is to be
encouraged. The Government's approach to helpirng the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Programs in the health and education sectors are to
be better focussed and integrate? and selected low income and economically
disadvantaged groups, such as workers in the informal sector, children and
unemployed youth, are singled out for special attention. Combined with
extensions of the Integrated Rural Development (DRI) and Nationatl Nutrition
(PAN) projects, the new directions given to social programs are expected to
raise significantly the welfare cf low income groups in Colombia!.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing attention
from the authorities' in coming months. The first involves a required deepening
of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning and executing
sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters related to financing
the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out the PIN strategy,
inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or insufficient domestic
resource mobilization would be likely to result in substantial resource mis-
allocation and delay execution of the strategy. It is essentiaL that this be
avoided. The two most important sectors where additional work Ls urgently
required are energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 198.5 petroleum
imports are expected to absorb nearly 25% of total export proce,eds. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on Colombia's growth later in this decade. Resolution of the
energy problem depends on the country's success in developing its abundant
domestic energy resources. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy resource avail-
abilities, a least cost program of investments in energy and policy measures
to assure the program's rapid execution. Although planning and policymaking
have improved substantially in many energy sector institutions in recent
years, overall planning and coordination in the sector are still weak. A study
initiated in 1980 by the National Planning Department is expected to provide
the basis for improvements in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and
recent pricing decisions have gone a considerable way towards providing the
correct signals for regulating consumption and encouraging production. The
prices paid to producers (primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and
"new" crude have been raised to levels which should provide adequate production
incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products, while still below
international levels, have been increased substantially in excess of world oil
price rises (paragraph 33). The Government has committed itself to raise
energy prices to equivalent international levels as rapidly as politically and
economically possible, and a least cost energy investment program is being
prepared.



15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate service could
become a constraint on economic growth, particularly on mining development.
The State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs rehabili-
tation and upgrading (paragraphs 27, 28 and 34). The authorities have begun
to take steps to improve the country's infrastructure (paragraphs 28, 30, 39
and 40) and PIN assigns an important share of future investments to the
sector. There is, however, a need for more efficient planning to ensure
that only least cost investments are carried out and that a sound policy
framework for the sector is established to deal effectively with the problems
of intermodal coordination and energy conservation.
Investment and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development
strategy outlined in the PIN. Over the 1980-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 12% p.a. in real terms. The energy, transpor-
tation and industrial (including mining) sectors are expected to account for
the bulk (60%) of this investment; however, sizeable real increases in invest-
ment are also expected in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture
and industry, water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public
fixed investment is projected to average 9.2% of GDP during the 1980-85
period, and is expected to total Col$1,716 billion (US$22,260 million).
Private investment will have to increase also during this period to provide
the goods and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobilization
effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax system
(excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign exchange
holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be increased through
new taxes and better tax administration and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. Since this effort
is expected   to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the recent growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the country's
resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a turnaround
in the balance of payments from a current account surplus of US$596 million



- 7 -
(2.2% of GDP) registered in 1979 to a current account deficit projected to
average US$1,150 million, over the 1980-85 period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP.
By the end of this period, net official international reserves would have
fallen to a level above three months of imports of goods and services (a level
which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's credit-
worthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real
GDP of 5.5% during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to 2%
of GDP in 1987 and to 1% by 1990. It is expected, therefore, that the economy
will be able to achieve real GDP growth averaging about 5.5% per annum during
the 1980-85 period. To reach this level of growth, gross domest:ic investment
will have to expand to about 24% of GDP, up from 18% in the early 1970s and
21% in recent years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebted-
ness, gross national savings would need to average about 21% of GDP. This is
about the same level of savings achieved in 1978-79, when the terms-of-trade
gains from the coffee boom raised the savings coefficient, but above the level
achieved in the early 1970s.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.0 billion in current prices for the 1980-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$1,670 million. About 31% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to
cover current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are
expected to provide 40% of these requirements, 48% is expected to come from
foreign suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from
private foreign investment. At the end of 1979, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$3.4 billion,
equivalent to 12% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was 25%.
Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline by
bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 30% in 1983,
before falling to about 25% in 1987. The debt service ratio at end of 1979
was 12% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 18% in the
early 1990s and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt
service is expected to rise to about 24% in 1985 from about 13% in 1979. With
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1980-1990 period.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 90th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,903.8 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount the Bank held, as of December 31, 1980, US$2,184.4
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 54 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$138 million
in 1979 and to US$215 million in 1980.  The improved performance of social



- 8 -
sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual
containment of inflationary pressures which should allow relaxation of fiscal
restraint and the recent Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point
to higher levels of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$63.2 million in 25 enterprises and, as of
December 31, 1980, it held US$17.6 million.  Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of December 31,
1980. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 34 ongoing
projects.
21.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits. All
three loans for education have been made during this period, and so have
twelve of the fourteen loans for industry, eleven of the thirteen agricultural
loans, one loan for a nutrition project, two loans for urban development
projects and all nine loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same
period, seventeen loans were made in the power and transport sectors, while
before 1966, twenty-two out of a total of twenty-five loans were made to
these sectors.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY80 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for a nickel project,
telecommunications, and credit to small-scale industry and to development
finance companies for medium- and large-scale industry, totalling US$518.0
million equivalent. In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY81
program includes loans for further hydro power development, railways, village
electrification, irrigation rehabilitation and erosion control, secondary oil
recovery, and the already approved loan for hydropower development. Work is
also under way on projects for further petroleum development and mining, land
settlement, rural development, ports, highways, oil refining, electric power,
agro-industries, fertilizers, water supply and sewerage, urban development and
environmental improvement, for possible consideration by the Executive Directors
during the next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraphs 12 through 15). To
help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the
development of coal mines which hold potential in helping Colombia meet part
of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply and the recovery of domestic
petroleum, the Bank proposes to finance further petroleum projects and, for
the first time, become involved in projects which promote the efficient
processing of hydrocarbons. Bank financing in the energy sector would also
assist in strengthening major institutions and in mobilizing external



- 9 -
finance as some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future
loans would finance agriculture and industry to support the Government in
its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to
increase and d½versify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be
the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context, the
Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a highway paving and rehabilita-
tion program in support of the in--easing interregional flow of goods and
services. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at
helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the
imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of the Government's
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for urban
development and slum improvement, rural electrification, rural development,
land settlement, water supply and sewerage, irrigation and environmental
improvement projects is principally designed to improve the standard of living
of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are showM in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since
then to approximately 50% for the 1976-79 period and it is expected that
during the period 1980-85 will decline further to about 40% of external
capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to
social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia. The Governments
of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also
provided concessional financing for social and regional integrat:Lon projects.
PART III: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Characteristics
25.       Colombia's advantage of having coastlines on both the Pacific
Ocean and the Caribbean Sea is more than offset by the difficulty of movement
between the coasts and the interior. Three massive Andean mountain ranges
run parallel to the north-south Magdalena and Cauca river systems, representing
formidable barriers to communication among the main areas of population, which
until recently developed as separate and almost isolated communities. Since
the 1950s, therefore, transport investment policy has been focussed on inte-
grating centers of economic activity and at overcoming the obstacles imposed
by topography.
26.       In 1978, the transport sector contributed 6.6% of GDP.  About 21.5
billion ton-km of freight was transported in that year; 75% by road, 11% by
coastal shipping, 7% by riverway, 6% by railway and 1% by aviation. The
largest share of passenger traffic is carried by road, 71%, while aviation
handles 27% and railways 2%.



- 10 -
27.        Colombia's road network totals about 67,000 km:  23,000 km are
national highways under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport (MOPT); 31,000 km are under autonomous Departmental Secretariats
of Public Works; 11,200 km are under the National Feeder Roads Fund (FNCV) and
the balance of about 2,000 km are private or municipal roads. Of the national
system, about one-third is paved and the remainder is gravel or unsurfaced
roads; only 3% of departmental roads are paved. Overall, the road network is
adequate for present traffic but is not well maintained. It is estimated that
at least half of the paved roads will require asphalt overlays or strengthening
in the next ten years, to preserve the investments made.
28.       The Colombian National Railways (CNR), a semi-autonomous agency,
has a network of lines totalling 3,403 km (2,912 km currently in use) all
single track and narrow gauge (914 mm). The lines, most of which run in a
North-South direction, are divided into an Atlantic and a Pacific network.
The most important network is the Atlantic between the capital Bogota, in
the central highlands, and the Caribbean port of Santa Marta. The Pacific
network is largely skeletal at this writing because of track washouts and
closure of several lines. Colombia's difficult terrain has proved a formid-
able foe of railway construction and maintenance. In recent years, CNR's
plant capacity and operations have deteriorated and its traffic has been
declining (from 1.33 million ton-km in 1972 to 1.10 million ton-km in 1979).
As a result, CNR has required increased financial support from the National
Treasury. In view of the energy crisis and the development of mining in
Colombia, the Government is giving priority to the rehabilitation of CNR.
In line with this, UNDP-financed consultants, with the Bank as executing
agency, have assisted CNR in preparing a five-year rehabilitation program,
the first three years of which form the basis of a proposed Bank loan to be
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.
29.       The traditional importance of inland waterway transport (mainly
the Magdalena and Cauca rivers) has diminished considerably with the rapid
growth of road and railway infrastructure. Remaining traffic is mainly
petroleum products and other bulk commodities such as fertilizers and cement
and originates at, or is destined for the ports of Cartagena or Barranquilla,
partially complemented by the Canal del Dique, branching off the Magdalena
River, and rail service. Administration and maintenance of inland waterways
is under the jurisdiction of an MOPT Directorate, freight services are owned
privately.
30.       Colombia's five major ports, Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa
Marta on the Caribbean, and Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific are
administered and maintained by the Colombian Port Authority (COLPUERTOS),
an autonomous Government agency. The ports mcve about 3 million tons of cargo
per year, with Buenaventura handling over 1.5 million tons annually. However,
goods are not evacuated from the docks in a timely way because of unsatisfac-
tory cargo-handling operations, labor difficulties, lack of inland storage
facilities and deficient transport services. A faulty system of port charges
also contributes to congestion, with unenforced demurrage levies that, in any
event, are too low to prevent unnecessary storage. With UNDP-financing and
the Bank as executing agency, consultants and COLPUERTOS are studying port
operations and containerization to identify corrective actions.



- 11 -
31.       Aviation transport developed at an eariy date (1920) and has become
a major mode of domestic and foreign travel.  While international air freight
traffic has increased in recent years, domestic air freight has declined.
There are three national and eleven foreign airlines providing international
services, and ten domestic carriers. Since 1968, aviation has been governed
by the Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics (DAAC), which is directly
responsible to the President of the Republic. DAAC is financed by the National
Aeronautics Fund (FAN), whose revenues originate mainly from user charges.
There are some 70 airports, eight of which are equipped for international
flights. In view of technological advances in aviation and the inherent
difficulties of surface transport, aviation is likely to have an increasing
role, especially in passenger transport.
Transport Investment and Financing
32.        The effort to complete the basic transport network has required
a considerable proportion of the country's total investment. Transport
represented about half of Central Government investment in the late 1950s
(between 10% and 15% of domestic investment). When the trunk highway system
and the Atlantic Railway were being completed, it exceeded 60% of Central
Government investment. More recently, however, transport's share has de-
clined to about 15%. In 1979, Col$12,668 million (US$294 million equivalent)
were invested in the transport sector of which 78% was allocated to roads, 9%
to ports and inland navigation, 12.5% to airports and 0.5% to railways.
33.       The National Highway Fund (Fondo Vial Nacional), created in 1966, is
the main financing source for construction and maintenance of the national
highway network. The Fund, which has no staff of its own, is administered by
MOPT. Its revenues originate 70% from the gasoline tax (114% of the refinery
price), and 30% from vehicle license fees, land improvement levies, toll
charges, direct Government contributions (these are being phased out because
of the growing gasoline tax revenues) and external borrowings (the Bank, IDB
and others). As stated, the Government has been increasing gaso] ine prices
gradually. The last rise in October 1980, has brought prices to Col$52.50
(about US$1.06) per gallon for premium gasoline (87 octane) and Col$44.00
(about US$0.90) per gallon for regular gasoline (72 octane) and diesel fuel.
These increases have reduced the implicit economic subsidy to road users from
US$435 million or 1.6% of GDP in 1979 to US$189 million or 0.7% of GDP in
1980. 1/ In the PIN, Government policy sets forth that the subsLdy will be
eliminated as the domestic consumer price of hydrocarbons continuaes to move
toward international levels.
34.       During the 1970s, about 30% of national highway expenditure was for
maintenance, 50% for construction and 20% for administration. Since late 1977,
when Loan 1471-CO (Seventh Highway Project) became effective, road maintenance
expenditures have been increasing and in 1979 accounted for 40% of total high-
way expenditures. There is a need to intensify the road maintenance effort
and outlays for this purpose should increase in the future.
1/   Estimate based upon an equivalent import price at "the pump" of about
US$44.53 per barrel or US$1.06 per gallon of regular gasoline and esti-
mated annual consumption of 26.5 million barrels in 1980.



- 12 -
Transport Coordination
35.       MOPT is responsible for the construction and maintenance of national
highways and for the coordination of the different modes. The National Planning
Department (DNP) also exercises some coordination and its Infrastructure
Division oversees overall sector developments and endorses proposed invest-
ments after they have been approved by MOPT.
36.       In Colombia, transport coordination has been deficient.  In the
past, efforts to overcome this have not had a significant impact. It was not
until 1976, when MOPT assumed responsibility for transport (previously, it had
responsibility for public works only) that some improvement took place.  This
action was followed by MOPT's 1980 reorganization, which established an overall
transport sector planning office within the Ministry and a National Transport
Council. The Government is cognizant of the fact that transport policy needs
to be strengthened by setting overall sector guidelines, by adequate pricing
of transport services, by studying the energy implications of transport
development, by provision of financing for operating and investment costs and
by fixing clear responsibilities for the sector at the various Governmental
levels. An important initial step towards this goal has been taken in the
analysis underlying the PIN, and in the different studies being carried out
on ports, railways and domestic energy balance. As development options are
sorted out, detailed transport policy prescriptions should emerge.
Agriculture and Rural Roads
37.       The PIN singles out increased productivity and output in agriculture
as a priority objective and assigns substantial resources to this effort in
the form of credit, research and extension, irrigation works, fertilizers,
pesticides and other inputs. Further, it seeks to provide a stable demand
and remunerative prices for farm products through measures to raise the
efficiency of distribution and marketing, including the establishment of
collection and marketing centers, storage facilities, etc., and the construc-
tion of farm-to-market roads. Consistent with this, FNCV has prepared a
ten-year construction and rehabilitation plan for rural roads (paragraph 44).
Taken together these actions are expected to increase competition among
middlemen, lower prices to consumers and raise demand and farm gate prices.
38.       The Bank has been supporting the Government's objectives in agricul-
ture in various ways. Several loans under disbursement are providing credit,
improved irrigation and technical assistance to agrarian reform beneficiaries
and small and commercial farmers. The Integrated Rural Development Project
(Loan 1352-CO), financed jointly with IDB and CIDA, covers almost one-third of
the country and benefits small farmers. It includes credit, extension services,
training, marketing, reforestation, feeder roads, water supply, electricity
and health services. Feeder road construction accounts for 20% of the Inte-
grated Rural Development Project (DRI); 69 road sections representing 233 km
are near completion. A follow-up DRI Project will be appraised shortly,
which, together with the proposed project, would expand the rural road network
by some 1,000 km and benefit a large number of small farmers (paragraph 45).



- 13 -
Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
39.       The Bank has long played a role in the development of Colombia's
transportation system. Since 1950, it has lent a total of US$406.2 million
equivalent to the sector. Seven loans and one IDA credit totalling US$225.6
million have assisted construction, upgrading and maintenance of the trunk
highway network, which connects the main population centers of the country.
Two loans for US$40.9 million financed the construction of the Atlantic
Railroad, from La Dorada, near Bogota, to Fundacion, near Santa Marta, a
distance of 672 km. Four loans totalling US$78.7 million supported railway
rehabilitation, including the acquisition of rolling stock for the Atlantic
Railroad. A loan for US$61 million is helping to finance the construction of
a modern airport at Rio Negro, near Medellin, and improvements in the Cartagena
and Bogota airports. As stated, through DRI the Bank is financin,g the con-
struction of rural roads.
40.       Five of the highway projects have been audited by the COperations
Evaluation Department (OED) and the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 680-CO, June
1970) will be reviewed shortly 1/. Overall these projects were executed
successfully, although with delays and cost overuns, and have contributed
substantially to the integration and economic expansion of the country
(24 road sections of the first three projects which were analyzed had an
average rate of return in excess of 25%). Major difficulties under the
earlier projects derived from the need to redesign some road sections and
higher than estimated costs, as final engineering was not completed at
appraisal. Subsequent projects have encountered problems in the slow avail-
ability of counterpart funds, inadequate attention to maintenancte, poor
contract management and insufficient supervision. Substantial progress has
been made in taking corrective measures, but funding and inadequate maintenance
require continued effort. Under the Seventh Highway Project (Lotn 1471-CO,
June 1977), important advances are being made in making more effi.cient use of
the resources devoted to highway maintenance. The proposed project would
complement this effort by improving the maintenance of rural roads (paragraphs
44 and 54).
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
41.       The project, prepared by the National Feeder Roads Fund (FNCV),
comprises part of its 1981-84 Investment Program. It was appraised in
September 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during the week of
February 16, 1981, with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Roberto Martinez
Rubio, Vice Minister of Public Works and Transportation. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 3226b-CO of March 9, 1981) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
1/   "Bank Operations in Colombia:  An Evaluation," Report No. Z-18, 1972,
and "Project Performance Audit Report, Colombia: Fifth Highway Project
(Loan 550-CO)," SecM78-152 of 1978.



- 14 -
42.       The project would support the integration of isolated agricultural
areas throughout the country into the national economy by providing roads
where none exist and by upgrading existing roads in poor condition. Many of
the roads would be built in regions where there are on-going agricultural
credit and technical assistance programs, some of which are Bank-financed.
Except for those included in the first year of the project (twenty-three,
representing 252.6 km and accounting for 22% of the roads to be built and
13% of the ones to be rehabilitated under the project), the rural roads would
be selected as their identification and economic evaluation are completed.
43.       FNCV has developed selection and evaluation criteria for rural
roads, which the Bank finds acceptable. In order to achieve a regional
balance, FNCV divides its investment budget among the Departments on the basis
of population densities and other factors. The decision on which roads to
build follows several stages. First, by using a point system, which gives
weight to factors such as market access, the area's stage of development, etc.,
FNCV preselects the most promising roads. It goes on to evaluate them and
roads with an economic rate of return (ERR) less than the estimated opportunity
cost of capital in Colombia (11%) are discarded. The roads with an ERR of 11%
or higher are then ranked and, according to the ranking scale, the best ones
built. With Bank encouragement, in the final ranking of some roads FNCV has
begun to apply social rates of return to take special account of consumption
gains accruing to the poor. For each road or group-of roads that would be
financed under the proposed loan FNCV has agreed to prepare a brief report
which would include technical, design, cost and economic information. Only
after the Bank has approved the selection of the roads, FNCV would proceed to
start works (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The roads eligible
for financing under the proposed loan would have to have an ERR no less than
11% (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The above selection and
evaluation procedures are spelled out in a manual which FNCV has agreed to
follow (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement) 1/.
FNCV's Program, Project Description and Financing
44.       A recent survey of FNCV's rural road network (11,200 km at the end
of 1979) shows that about two-thirds is six years or older and a large portion
is in bad condition. FNCV, therefore, has designed a plan to accomplish the
following over the next ten years:
(a) rehabilitation of the entire network while simultaneously
constructing about 5,600 km of new rural roads;
(b) initiation of routine maintenance for new and rehabili-
tated roads; and
(c) in 1985, initiation of periodic regravelling for part of
the network that is seven years or older to reduce the rate
of deterioration and the need for rehabilitation.
1/   FNCV Document O.P. No. 031 of September 1980 entitled "Metodologia
y Criterios para la Seleccion de Caminos."



- 15 -
45.       FNCV's 1981-84 program is the first phase of the ten-year plan.  It
includes on-going works under DRI I and labor-intensive programs ("pico y
pala") as well as new activities. The objectives of the 1981-84 program are:
(a) construction of 2,025 km of rural roads; (b) rehabilitation of 1,810 km;
(c) routine maintenance of 4,580 km; and (d) studies for 1,435 km. The cost
of the program is US$226 million equivalent and would be financed:*AUS$140.8
million (62.3%) by the National Highway Fund; US$4.1 million (1.8%) by FNCV;
US$20.3 million (9.0%) by IDB, including undisbursed balances under DRI I;
US$0.9 (0.4%) by CIDA under DRI I; US$59 million (26.1%) by the Bank, which
includes undisbursed balances under DRI I, the proposed project and the
forthcoming DRI II; and US$0.9 million (0.4%) from the National ]?rojects
Fund (FONADE).
46.       The proposed project would cover 27.9% of the 1981-84 program and
the costs attributable to it would be US$63 million equivalent. The proposed
Bank loan would finance its foreign exchange costs, which is est:imated at
US$33 million equivalent or 52.4%.
47.       The items included under the proposed project are the iFollowing:
(a) construction of about 710 km of rural roads; (b) rehabilitation of about
710 km; (c) engineering for about 710 km; (d) purchase of hand tools for
labor-intensive maintenance; (e) procurement of maintenance equipment and
related spare parts; and (f) technical assistance to review and make
recommendations on improving FNCV's information systems and data processing.
The Borrower, FNCV
48.       FNCV was created in 1960 and began operating in 1961 as an organiza-
tion dependent upon MOPT. In 1968, it gained partial autonomy, and, in 1972,
was reorganized and received full autonomy. It is directed by a seven member
Board presided over by the Minister of Public Works and Transport. The Minis-
tries of Agriculture and Interior are also represented. FNCV is managed by
a Director General who is appointed by the President of the Republic. Its
staff of about 1,600 is dynamic and well-motivated, and includes some 100
engineers, several economists and socio-anthropologists. FNCV has its main
office in Bogota and 24 regional offices located in each of Colombia's Depart-
ments. The fiscal supervision of the entity is performed by the Controller-
General of the Republic.
49.       The purpose of FNCV is to construct, upgrade and maintain feeder or
rural roads, a task that it carries out in cooperation with departmental and
other local authorities. Between 1961 and 1978, FNCV constructed about 8,000
km of rural roads with an average length of 5 km. The roads were built to
all-weather gravel standards, with a riding surface of 4.5 meters. The works
were performed by small contractors, local farmers, landless laborers, and by
force account.
50.       While not yet a direct recipient of Bank loans, FNCV has a record of
successful involvement in rural road components of Bank-financed projects,
notably DRI. Nevertheless, FNCV has shortcomings which derive mainly from
deficient planning, erratic funding and, at times, political pressures. The
latter have resulted in the initiation of several roads that nevier reached
completion. Under the proposed project, corrective measures wouLd be taken.



- 16 -
First, the technical assistance component would assist FNCV to improve its
analytical base and thus provide for better planning (paragraph 51). While
improved planning would not remove political pressures it would make better
allowance for them in the budget. Second, the ten-year plan (paragraph 44)
together with the strengthening of maintenance practices which are part of the
proposed project (paragraph 54), would improve rural road maintenance. Lastly,
steps would be taken to improve the flow of funds to FNCV (paragraphs 53 and 57).
51.       With the assistance of consultants to be retained no later than
January 1, 1982, FNCV would strengthen its data gathering, processing and
evaluation (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). At present, FNCV has
no clearly defined information system; there is duplication and inconsistency
in the data prepared by each of its divisions. Consequently, management does
not have prompt and reliable information regarding road characteristics, costs
and equipment availability and cannot plan effectively. The consultancy
supported by the proposed project would review present data, collection
and processing procedures, make recommendations and prepare guidelines for
their improvement.
Finances
52.       FNCV's main source of revenues is the National Highway Fund,
which by law passes on ten percent of gasoline tax receipts to FNCV. The
agency also receives funds from a tax on beer consumption, land improvement
levies and supplemental budget appropriations voted by the legislature.
Domestic revenues cover roughly 70% of its expenses and external borrowing
the remaining 30%.
53.       In 1974, FNCV's expenditures totalled Col$1,159.8 million (US$27 mil-
lion); the agency built/rehabilitated an estimated 871 km of rural roads.
While this figure is indicative of FNCV's capacity, it underestimates its
potential. For one thing, in 1979 FNCV received Col$1,909.5 million (US$44.4
million) in transfers, but since a large portion of these funds were made
available in the last part of the year, they could not be spent. To help
regularize the flow of funds to FNCV a Working Capital Fund (WCF) would be
established under the proposed project, with initial contributions from the
Government and the Bank (paragraph 57).
Road Maintenance
54.       The Government's intention is to transfer the maintenance of rural
roads to the Departamental Secretariats of Public Works, but, since they lack
technical and financial resources, FNCV has been made temporarily responsible
for it. FNCV, therefore, proposes to contract, through local municipalities,
peasant workers (peon caminero) to maintain the roads. They would be supported
in larger works by heavy equipment, the availability of which would be increased
through the repair and maintenance service to be provided by MOPT (Section 3.02
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Each peasant worker would be responsible
for maintaining a designated road section on average 5 km long and would
receive an annual salary of US$253 equivalent per kilometer plus hand tools.
In this way, by 1984 some 470 peasant workers would be maintaining 2,330 km of
rural roads. The communities' interest in the good condition of the road and
the periodic supervision by FNCV's staff is insurance that the quality of
their work be satisfactory. This arrangement is expected to facilitate the
eventual transfer of road maintenance from FNCV to the Secretariats.



- 17-
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Equipment totalling US$8.74 million equivalent would be procured
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Since the contracts for construction and rehabiitation of rural roads will
be small, firms not operating in Colombia, nor for that matter in the region
involved are unlikely to participate. Civil works, engineering, supervision
and hand tools, therefore, would be procured locally under competitive bidding
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Finally, FNCV would be allowed to
contracL directly the projects' technical assistance because of its smallness
(US$110,000). The Bank, however, would approve the terms of reference and
qualifications of the consultants as well as the terms and conditions of
employment (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       In view of the expected lack of contractor interest in the more
geographically remote works and the unavailability of surplus labor in some
areas, force account may be required. FNCV's force account unit consists of
well-trained operators, drivers and 427 units of equipment. The amount of
force account eligible for Bank reimbursement would be restricted to no more
than US$3 million; of this amount, no more than US$1 million would be used for
new construction (Section 2.03 and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
This limitation is considered necessary to deter unnecessary build-up of
FNCV's force account unit.
57.       Disbursements would be made against: (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for imported equipment; (b) 45% of total expenditures for civil works,
studies, supervision and hand tools if carried out by contractors and 32% if
by force account; and (c) 87% of total expenditures for technicaLl assistance.
In order to ensure adequate and prompt resources to finance civil works, a
Working Capital Fund (WCF) would be established under the project with US$3.0
million equivalent, sufficient to cover three to six months' expenses. Upon
the opening of a special account and the commitment of the Government through
the Treasury's agreed expenses (Acuerdo de Gasto) to its initial contribution
to the WCF (US$1.65 million), the Bank would disburse its share of US$1.35
million equivalent. In order to allow for necessary time to complete the
budgetary process, the Government would have up to thirty days to deposit the
monies in the special account. Subsequent Bank disbursements to replenish the
WCF would be made according to standard procedures, provided that payment of
the Government's past share into the WCF had been made within sixty days of
the Bank's disbursement and the new contribution has been included in the
Acuerdo de Gasto (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Every six months,
the Government, FNCV and the Bank would agree upon the financial requirements
of the WCF and if such agreement were not reached, the Bank would not make
further disbursements against categories for construction and rehabilitation
(Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). The WCF is expected to speed up the execution of the
project and facilitate the complete disbursement of the loan by June 30, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The proposed project would help to integrate isolated local transport
networks, to correct imbalances in the road infrastructure and to improve
maintenance of rural roads, thereby providing savings to existing traffic. It



- 18 -
would also improve the rural population's access to essential services such as
medical and veterinary facilities, schools, agricultural extension, marketing
cooperatives, credit agencies and equipment suppliers. Further, the project
would contribute to the generation of local employment.
59.       A rate of return has not been estimated for the project because not
all of the roads have been identified. Those eligible for inclusion under the
project would have to have an economic rate of return of at least 11%, i.e.,
equal to the opportunity cost of capital (paragraph 43). It is expected that
the project roads will have a substantially higher economic rate of return,
since the roads to be built and/or rehabilitated during the first year of
the project (23) have an average economic rate of return of about 47%.
60.       The proposed project does not present unusual risks.  FNCV's 1981-84
program has been reviewed and is considered conservative. The National
Highway Fund is assured of sufficient funds as a result of the growing receipts
from the gasoline tax. This, together with the WCF, should ensure adequate
funding of FNCV's activities.   Further, the flexibility afforded in the
commitment of loan funds would enable FNCV to respond quickly to urgently
needed works as they are identified, thus assuring execution of a priority
program. Considering Colombia's large need for rural road construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance, it is highly improbable that FNCV will exhaust
the quantity of roads with satisfactory rates of return.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreemnt between the Bank and FNCV, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
62.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 12, 1981



ANI I
- 19-                                              Pg1 of 5
cot0U-S50CS4L INDICATORS DATA SUET
COLQIPSA                    REPSENCE GROUPS (WEIGCTED AVZCES
AREA.1-OUSAND Sq---~~~~~~~~~~-                            MST RECENT ESTIMkTE)a
LAND AREA (THOSAD SO.  M.)-
AGRICULTURAL    230. 6                              HOST RECNT            MIDDLE SNCOHE          MIDDLE INCCE
1960  l    1970 l ESTIMATE kb   LATIN AMERICA & CARItBEAN         EUROPI
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                250.0      400.0   ID10.0                  1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)    491.0         606.0    700.0                  1055.9                  1641.A
POPU.ATION ASD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MlD-YEAR (MILLIONS)    15.8       21.3      25.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48. 2     59.8      68.3                   63.4                    53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    39.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATioN IS REACHED               2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EK-                      14.0       19.0      22.0                   28.1                    77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    71.0       93.0    111. 0                   81.7                   129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       47.0        46.8      40.7                   41.4                    30.6
15-64 YRS.                       50.0        50.5      56.3                   54.7                    61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.0         2.7       3.0                    3.9                     8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            3.1         3.0       2.3                    2.7                     1. 6
URBAN                            6. O.L      5.2       3.9                    4. 1                    3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0       37.0      31.0                   34.8                    22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    14.0       10.0       8.0                    8.9                     8.9
GR-OSS REPRODUCTION RATE           3.2         3.2       1. 8                   2.5                     1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..       115.4    142.0
USERS (PERCENT OP HARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..      35. 9
FOD0 AND NUTRITION
INDEX or PFOO PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       100.0        99.0    120.0                   106.9                   113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 97.0        88.0    102.0                   107.4                   125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        54.0        48.0      52.0                   65.6                    91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      28.0       24.0      26.0                   33.7                    39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    17.0       13.0       9.0                    8.4                     4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.0       58.5      62.0                   63.1                    67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..        98.0/       ..                   66.5                    55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       63.0      64.0                   65.9
URBAN                             ..          ..      73.0                   80.4
RURAL                             ..          ..      46.0                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       47.0      48.0                   62.3
URBAN                                       75.0      73.0                   79.4
RURAL                             ..         8. 0     13. 0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2400.0      2170.0   1970.0                  1849.2                  1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   3740.0      2040.0   1250.0                  1227.5                   929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           363.0      449.0    620.0                   480.3                   289.7
URBAN
RURAL''
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        23. 0     25.0                     *.                    17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         5.74d
URBAN                             ..         55d
RURAL                             ..         5. 9/d
AVERIAGE NUBHER OF PERSONS PER RO0M
TOTAL                             ..         1.8/d
URBAN                             ..         1.6/d
RURAL                             ..         2. 4/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWhELLINGS)
TOTAL                            47.0       58.17       .
URBAN                            83.0/      87. 5d
RURAL                            8.0/       13.2/d



Annex I
- 20 -                                                    Page 2 of 5
COLOHBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COL4MBIA                -   REF I  GROUS (UEIC=D AVC5
- POST ZCT               As.
MOST RICENIT            MIDDLE INCOIE          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1910 a  ESTIXAE /b   LATIN AMNDCA & CAIBBEAN              mUROP
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:     TOTAL                77.0       103.0      103.0                    99.7                    105.9
MALE                 77.0       101.0    100. 0                    101.0                    109-3
FEMALE               77.0       105.0     105.0                     99.4                    103.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        24.0      39.0                     34.4                     64.0
MALE                 13.0        24.0      39.0                     33.5                     71.1
FEHALE               11.0        24.0      40.0                     34.7                  * 56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (. OF SECONDARY) 31.0jf       21.0      17.0                     38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEAC1ER RATIO
PRIHARY                           38.0        38.0      30.0                     30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                         11.0        17.0      19.0                     14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       63.0        73.0       81.0                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        11.0      18.4                     43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       124.0       0o0.0     107.0                    245.3                    192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         9.0        37.0      64.0                     84.2                    116.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 56.0          ..      69.0                     63. 3                    93.0
CINElA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PEl CAPITA   ..          ..       4.1                       ..                      5.7
LAooR FORCE
TOT'L LABOR FORCE (THOUSARDS)     4726.5      6353.3   8174.0
FEMAULE (PERICENT)                18.9        24.6      25.0                     22.2                     3e.4
AGIICULTUIE (PECENT)              51.4        37.9      30.0                     37.1                     37.0
LIDMISThY (PERCENT)               19.2        21.0      23.0                     23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEIIT)
TOTAL                               30.6        29.7      29.7                     31.5                     40.9
KALE                                49.8        44.9      44.7                     48.9                     55.9
FEdALE                              11.6        14.6      14.6                     14.0                     26.2
ECON0MIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1. 6        1. 7      1.4                      1.4                      1. 0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCYNE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSERDLDS   41. 2 "     31. 9                                ..
HRGIEST 20 PERCENT or HOUSIUOLDS  67. 7/eS    60.1        *-
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF BOUSEIOWLS    2. 1.A.     3. 5        .                                                .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS    6.8/    10.1/*
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     214.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     197.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URbAN                               ..          ..     267.0                    474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     122.0                    332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELCO  ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      34.0
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/I  The group  verages for each indicator are population-wighted arithmetie *eens.  Coverae of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of dats and is not uniforu.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate. between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1951-64;  /d 1973;  /e 1964;  /f Including teacher triining at the third level;  /g Econically active
population.
Host recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979.
October, 1980



- 21-A     
Page 3 o 
DEFINITIONSt OF SuILA) INDICATORS
Nose,   Although ohs dat  or  dre   ro  sore  gnrly judgdlls sat  uihritrie  anId reliable  itshould.also ha notd that they may not be inter-
naiotyoparbd:le 1 becus  of oh,         . lac  of. sIsed Io    deftrtion   and cncept !eed by diffrn   unra   noien     tedt.Ted ase   as
theese  uofu  t  decrie   rdes  f satituds , indicate toed, nod oharatsei-e carts Wo .,o differe-ce. betnee.n.. ceotrie.
ofth  sb so  ouooc(ecet Io "Copucod  ieto  hi  lpoter.    gop  bts'idl  I ocs-Norh Af I to end Middle PaT" to oh...r hbcoso of strne
of  neInicto  a    ite enoug ibhoute   -d referents grop........ly..fIi                                                                          P.i    t   -.
LANE AREA (thouodaqh.                                                                       oshto   seIeioa      optno1drddbysgnonpalltgpy
III -.P.u,a  P EsIsaso   grfhua  as   sd  opnrlyo   eoeroy                              Ptuonre   oso  Parson - PoPu1lselo  dieldsd by stebee of pos..titotg
Ferlasos  ee frainat Be - mist  neb tis sd meet -         . Pntlieafl.
tsp PEsR CAPITA (cUS) - GNrPsrc  piaen Isat conen  nether prices, rot-                        ur~_ban,.. nd--eons1l)  iided by their, ,rasoche  a(te osialbt
oulaced by ess    crr        ehcd on.uIld Book hrltoe (1977-79 basis); 0960,                wsilbhle in puhlio end pretia-t      nes E ea,-d  seiladhospital enWs
19h  o-d1.79 dot..                                                                         hbhilitation tanners.  Hipitals ocr stbnahllfsts p&rsetiy staff d
batla enphysicia.  EtbIshlihmenia pendding pr-isipa1ly rotedia1
ENERGY CONSUIfPTION PER CAITA - Ane  u             iuptoo  oecaenRgy (col                      ar  se  ntinlOs.Rua  hospticts, h-sve, inL-LIe health sad  sdtal
eod ligoite, petrotels CA' url nn ad hydro-, nus  and gEoneotcs-                               er   o  permnetly  tsf fed by I physlise- (hoe by a sedinal cesIenans
teiricy) In kitugrn  of cot  ql,         htpe-apilea; 1960, 1970, cod 1978noe   idonfe. ete.) whieh offer  n-patist stoos-dor,n  es  pres  Id
dens,                                                               l~~~~~~~~~~~~Imited range of  edita1 facilities.Poe sogistinal rapos     o behepS-
rtsl  e_lude Wns. petei-pat gees  sod apeailised h-opietas. en   -.sra
POPITLATION ANDf VITTAL STATIITIC                                                             hosphnls total ne coral hospitlsl sod  adiost and mat.selty snotar..
Tonal .population, Mid-Tea  (mIhlioc-  - An of Juhy 1; 19h0, 1977, and 1978               A.,stos  e i     osIlet-  Bed - Trial ouben of edaslonia soot        isbea
dai,from hsptnsls divided by the nsbse of bade.
Uobon  ttuain  (oseen  of rotal  - latin of orbn no total populetiot;
dlIfferent def.iotto     of odin crss_ysfIeri c-p-ariltty of date                    gouseec
s_Ing  Iotll.s; 1981, 171U, and 1979 dats.                                              Average Bias of Honsohold (persoe ret haneslend) - lanal. cebas  so  sogA
Putti_nPoactn                                                                           A he-shodrsinofaeorf indnidnats oh. ahortliving qoarrer
Ponuaino in veT 2000 - fueren  popohaiosprti           ions se  hear.d as 1980            n  thirmin: meals    Abhoader or lodget  -srsy 'rfbs inlodad in
tonlpopaltico by oar end  Ieu sd oai otralty ond fertility ris                         the   .. hoebldfosiietapuoe.
Pejcao  yrntera for  -etatii   rases tunprins ofthree. levet!leosn               veetbreprn                 a   on-   sWtel, urban, sod rue1 - A-aegs
Inn life ennotancy at birth i-e... i.g with c-uosy' hprrptaicm                          Er of poMon  pe roa  toal    a, d rua-I opn    ovsnea
tee,adf-1at  life supactacoy stebitting 0   71yss    h   ae                      danihage, reapeotivey.  troetiaga-  u'datnprmoa  ertnssd
fnetee f f fari.lltthe   rots else hate threelevl  ssig   eiai                         uoocopie  pots.        1tI         d.Ii.
fetlitiyatri        o                        Innrtohadpe  faty paol_og Perf o_ca    Access tol fP,eon    rret  fdslno      oal   ta    n   ua
tech counnyr ia thee. aeignd ueo  these cite-         abnitr f surlelity               Co-oets...a  dweJllgs with elcteiritiy in living qu--riet.  a          .peetensg
eod fertilip  trend  for peojoccine purpas.%o   ue.abn   n   oaldslnsspetsp
ittirrooeoeio-tooI.             to      ypopulation there is no grstb sines
the birth rareto rque1 so the deaI into, and aIIsoh bogesfrucEDUCATI-
_eiosevnaiat.this In achIeved only after fertilitytoe  delne1                        Adiosted fEn...men.  Ratios
the esplatc-et leve  of.uit necratoutio   rte.h. ehn              he ss-etine           PrIayscol-           s . oassd fam1e   Gross ootsl, .-I.sad femal
of woma  replaces itasif  -ncty.  The etatio...y popolatlan sleasIpltoet                                      ges Is the Primary            . t tasPer.s.tages of r-pee.tir
estiseted ot the boio oflbs.Peoje.tnoL haateiniso  theiPoplato                            primary  cthen-age pnpultsitom; aemlt          tdas childoas agsd b-1t
to he ynnr 2000, ned the rate of decline of fertility rats te rpI...-                   Y=ar  hue  djosted fIor difftecant l.Sgha ef prImary adnctino; f or
Tea stationey epulot.io  is Ir...had - The yea  ah.nseto.         e  poplation              attsI       ppiase el    r  hnate               tf itya so.. har  1ge.p     
a-loei ha  beenty  reahe..Icodoy  cehool -totl, male and femal  - Cosptnd as shoe; saradary
PeIIIlon .    idy Eilestir                                                                  Idu..ocionee.ques-   leas..t footlyasre of aprosdprmay leasoeio;
Pe  e.  a.-  idyer  optiln  ensqar  kloetr(100 heciarani ofprovides generaL ...tocii...  ortete   rann t                           asirnenioaPrpsi
rtel  re..sull o1 f 12 to 17 peers of sge;  -areapundaCe _eenes    s  5-oealy
Pe  e.  a                  1-iutua   ed - Coapuced as shvefe I gecutuallad                   _oelded.
onty.IBestno  ertlon   soet of .....ndaryl   Vat..tional iatitotio
Populseior ASs Stnootur  (pecent) - cthldren  (T-lA peer), enekiag-aes (15-                   inldtehec,nusra,oohrpagsebebpesaide-
64 yese), and raritsd (A6yar5       o  near) - s pret         of aid-yerpo'                 dactip   ra   deparisdsola of ss-dr th etIentieoh.b                 L p
letn;16,  90,ad1978 daio.                                           .              Pen-tsbs  rti                  f  -rer . sd seydsr-ltoli-lndss  aotdi
Foetato  trso  ais  eeeet)- total - Aenca  groeh ratra of total aid-                 potmry sod seoodary levels divided by nsbsrs of tearhars ia rho
ysr  opltinsfa1950-60, 1960-70, end 1970-78.                                            --epondinh  1-len..
PoelatoeGrwt lae  orren)    uran- Aeal  rowh  ais  o  abarpon-       Adolf tIraso  rtsf         -te ) - Litertet ade1es (able no  ead sod antis)
lelo   o   90-h, 1961-TB, a-d 1970'TB                                               aPeoet,.n5so  ntal adult population agd 15 yFsr  endwot
Crude Mesh o1ta1 fre tbo....nd) - Aouusl lice births per theosnd of mid-year
.poplatior; 1960, 1970, an  1908 doe.l..                                              ONSUMPTTpo
lends Eseeb tonefea  thooc.d -a Aoul deaths Pee ihou....d of aid-year                     P_...Je. Cars fear thousand roruletia) - Passasger ces -peiIs manor
pouoo ;,1961, 197. and19078 dais                                                            Il.ooseen   l.ss that sight paano  culodasc    ecs  hearses sI
Gross Rsoroductioa Rtae- A--ogs nusht of daoghitaaoomasotl  bas  is'                        siutyvhioles.
bar  -ooa  rapead-ci-e period if eho. peioosPreset,B oga-saife  f.so-                    adio heoluet P fre       ....aed nrt     )-Alt typas.1  o ...asol..e far radn
citity  etos; usualy fire-yace ovecges endiog it 19h0, 1970, and 1977,                    broadesets no g..s.s  p Ill pe  thousand . rf .popohai,; entlods oatS-
Patiy Ptsosiooisas(eteto  aeio   wo) -  Percentag  of eared                                  ounris aodibf lidnsng
ecsbo   hldhtigae  1-..sra   h                     us   blyh-onro  deeloes  to-            sovr   et huaderltco      'se-t  Ptebodatt
al   ena  wmni   ae  gIro.                                                     eeo   uli   e  husn    ouaio;PIfeeotote  T   esvr
FitAE  iITIO                                                                          teors   ndi   et   hnrgiiaiooltesoasi   fst
it.. -d IP~~~~~~~OssttrCiclte  fe   haoo   ooalul-Ias  h   vtgstrsm
tanoofFod  esoclo  pr otia(169T1li)     odn  f  erositseos   .tim   f  dalygeselinerstseeppe",daind  isa  enndea  pb
nettonel overage producer price netghige; 19th-AS, 197th. , sadl.1978;datal.and. nubile.ondsT
enrg   equialen   ofIne  food. so1p6te   sel oindonypee pitaI                  ouert
qo    'Iieoe   ifod  prdintogi   od  osesI  dltrhoio.0 afqted m                  leftutioaI I in tar       lyt esronee  eseliA oat-u a1 -le  191. 1970 ad.t
meats wet esimte by.. PACbsd on. p-nilogin1l gards foeS noma-aa-                    t1978  "dat.ll7tfi    p..I   ..    --t_ 
househol  loa;191h, 1970.. rd.197  data                                                  fihig  s  ooatae  ftoalis     fre;  91,190In  178dee
puienasefo e-lbl cooplisa esabisedbl           il t    edsPo i    almF 197 .and190   dn...d)                                            t-pl-.Lld8
ol dPn   urry    96-I,  97  an.d 1977    . d ,di-beirs .                         1960  9i0. and 191d te, ieaner ItO's. -pseoblpibn  reins 19f70            tld
~~it   th I...id.ti.9  -i  --1  -P.n.ea.ea  ro  naionl  ruren
Yhldfcaiu)letltmss  ertenr)                      ,eno   en b. er ebsseo  it             en the  otal isot farm
trsadata deivedb.i. f runlie  abes  ltd .191-ied 197  doestI-_..  It                  10        hhO ItiTli-A
ehbith  1960, 197;    n 1 1976  dateIl. -   11dt.f.l,b,f   1.1017    d17   .
P        ifnitfodialry tt  Ierhoon)-Aoutdahofefisadrneye    rotvn_rI,1t0g07  ftttPt
of age pee edbru-sandi tine                                                -           Id.t,  ( .....talnd  bslte  ost -.bIncosLee  fil; rat esoli     -ue.f nd- crel 
Atone pto C feae feecat  fpoutete d-. I           total  urban,iand rural -   M-         "XIdln   oet   oostiti  hi noelvlh'lSTTffi
fountain  1- l0 nt     h...s  fo e  not sore tha  200. meters fro   a3 huElsybe          preslnonf the-1  e_or.   rstntisdne   fene the.g.  e-arsi-y
tucYl-Nufhe   of 1people        Aotel,urban   ed ryro19 served by0 n    17atesR              itD,dta           t.      f.         ...t.     d.    5.     5
disoslsspeeoragsYf o-irepac thirs d   poplslond. Rtcest  di-..roeioott sad tcitt1Oem  Bivisi
pieLH  priviesP end-                                                                                                          (blsimilar inkise-allaeodeyne.h..



- 22                                                   Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  26,670,000          (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$1010/a         (1979)
Amount               Average Annual Increase (1)            Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
Indicator                                        (million US$              (at constant 1970 prices)                  (at current prices)
at current prices)
1979'               1960-70   1970-75       1975-79        1960      1970       1975        1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product/C                               27,412                  5.3        6.1          5.8         100.0    100.0       100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                           7,263                  3.5        5.2          4.3          34,1      28.6       29.3        29.0
Industry                                              7,110                  5.9        6.1          5.4          25,7      26.6       28.3        28.4
Services                                             10,866                  6.0        7.3          7.2          40.2      44.8      42.4         42.6
Consumption                                            20,235                  5.9        6.6          5.7          79.4      79.6       81.6        73.8
Gross Investment                                        6,465                  5.1        0.6         11.6          20.5      22.0       17.8        23.6
Exports of goods and NFS                                4,912                  1.1        5.9          5.4          15.6      14.2       15.1        17.9
Imports of goods and NFS                                4,200                  5.0        1.1         12,0          15.5      15.8       14.5        15.3
Gross national savings                                  6,993                  5.2        4.1         20.8          19.4      18.0       16.8        25.5
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(at current prices)
1960     1970       1975        1979
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                         4,062                  3.3        1.4         12.7         100.0   .100.0       100.0       100.0
Merchandize exports (FOB)                               2,632                  2.8       -4.6         17.9          72.5      69.4       51.2        61.2
Major Primary                                           725                  -        23.8           4.1           -         9.0       24.5        17.8
Major Manufactures                                      705                  -          3.8          8.6           -        21.6      24.3         21.0
Other Merchandise imports (CIF)                       3,409                  3.5      -2.3          12.5         100.0    100.0      100.0       100.0
Fond                                                  iII                 15.0      -0.1           1.6           2.4     t45         4.8         3.3
Petroleum                                             571               -21.4       70.6         89.0           2.0       -          2.0        16.7
Machinery & equipment                               1.400                  5.2      -8.5         15.9           42.7     50,6       36.4        41.1
Other                                               1,327                  1.8       2.4          2.4           52.9     44,9       56.8        38.9
1974        1975          1976         1977         1978         1979Z
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE                                             27.6         20.8         23.6         28.3         14.5          24.1
GDP deflator                                                        27.1         31.2         35.0         36.9         39.3         42.6
Exchange rate
Export price index                                                 155.4        159.7        214.5        303.6        281.1        288.8
Import price index                                                 210.3        217.3        233.5        254.3        275.4        340.2
Terms of trade index                                                73.9         73.5         91.9        119.4        102.1         84.9
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970          1975          1979
_ZBLIQ FIANC/
Current revenue                                                                      10.6           11.3          12.0
Current expenditure                                                                    5.7           8.3           5.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                            4.9            6.0           6.6
Capital expeuditure                                                                   1.8            1.1           1.2
Foreign financingL/                                                                    3.3           2.9           3.8
1960-70       1970-75       1975-79
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                                    5.1           6.3           6.2
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                                        2.0            3.9           3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (%)                                                    5.0            4.0           4.0
ICORL&                                                                                3.5478         3.1906        3.0686
Marginal savings rate/l                                                               0.1354         0.1279        0.1872
Import elasticity                                                                     1.1744        0.1680         2.2533
/a World Bank Atlas Method.
/b Preliminary.
/c  At market prices:  Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
/d Estimated.
/e Central Government.
/f Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
/& Lagged one year.
/h Increment to gross domestic savings/increment to gross domestic product.
December 15, 1980
Columbia Division



- 23 -
Anne I
Page5 1f5
BALANCE OF PAYmENTS. EXTERtAL. CAPITAL AND DEBT
Population      : 26,670,000 (oid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$1010 */ (1979)                                                           (nillion US$ at current prices)
Aetwal                                                   proletec
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979 d/      1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and non-factor .ervices                 1000         2165       2782         3404     4059        4910         5345        5502       5912       6410        7467       8649
Import. of good. *nd coo-factor service.                 1149         2030       2302        2730       3722       4191         5359        6255       6997       7644       8618        9884
Renoorce balance                                            -149        -135        480          674       337        719           -14       -753      -1085       -1234      -1151      -1235
Net factor payments                                      -180         -263       -279        -235       -247       -127           -91       -105       -166       -264        -375       -487
Net unrequited tra-nfers                                   27           48         21           16         7          4             6          4          5           6          6          6
Corrent Accooct Balance                                    -302          -80        222          455        97        596           -99       -854      -1246      -1492      -1520       -1716
Net direct foreign icreatnent                                 39          32         14           43        56        124           125        125        150         250        250        350
Mediom and long tern 1oas (net)                              202         308        131          192        72        703           674        529        996         942        970       1166
to public sector                                         (160)       (254)       (109)       (195)       (92)      (603)        (741)      (550)       (911)      (846)      (860)    (1018)
to private secto-                                         (42)         (54)       (22)        (-3)     (-20)       (100)        (-67)      (-21)        (85)       (96)      (110)      (148)
Other capital                                                 55        -121        195          162       391       -158            -          --                     -          -
Capitol Account Balance                                      296         219        340          397       519        669           799        654       1146       1192        1220       1516
Change in Renerves (- = increase)                              6        -139       -562         -852       616      -1265         -700         200        100        300         300        200
lnternational Renerves (official)                           152          547       1166        1830       2482       4106         4806b/    4606         4506       4206       3906        3706
Renerven *s ronthe of ioportn                                1.6         3.2        6.1          8.0       8.0       11,5         10.8         8.6        7.7        6.6         5.4        4.5
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS bI
Official grants                                            -            -          -           -          -          -            -           -          -          -          -           -
Grosn dinbornenenta of MLT loons                          235          390        262         371        319       1036
Conceon-onal                                              102           39         47          27        60          36
Bilateral                                               (100)         (37)       (44)        (21)       (53)       (28)
IDA                                                      (_)                           (_)-)()          ()          _
Other Multilateral                                        (2)          (2)        (3)         (6)        (7)        (8)
Ban-co-ceni.onal                                          133         351         215         345       260       1000
Official e-port credit.                                  (26)         (14)       (0)         (14)      (19)        (47)
IBRD                                                     (58)       (106)        (76)        (85)      (82)       (138)
Other -r,ltilateraI                                      (14)         (19)       (27)        (31)      (33)        (31)
Private                                                  (35)       (212)       (112)       (214)    (125)       (783)
EXTERNAL DEBT (end of period) b/
Debt o-tstanding and disborned                          1249        2340        2453        2670      2803       3426
Official                                               1074        1716       1785         1862      1999       2151
IBRD                                                 (354)       (634)      (672)        (716)    (751)       (838)
IDA                                                   (20)        (22)       (22)         (22)      (22)       (22)
Oth-r                                                (700)      (1060)     (1019)      (1124)   (1225)    (1291)
Private                                               174         632        668         808        804       1275
Ondinburoed Debt                                         602         663         908        1040      1516       1993
DEBT SERVICE  h/
Tota1 debt  -ervice pay.enta of ahich                   119         249         278         313       398        664
Intere-t                                               44         114        125          137       171        231
Pay-nento an % exports of goods and
a11 Servicen                                        11.6         11.1        9.5          8.8       9.5       12.5
Pay-ects an. % GNP                                      1.7         1.9        1.9          1.6       1.8        2.4
Average interent rate on new loans (.)                   5.8          7.4        6.5         7.4       7.9        10.3
Official                                               (5.1)       (6.1)       (5.8)       (7.3)     (7.6)      (7.8)
private                                                (6.9)       (8.2)       (7.5)       (7.6)     (8.6)    (12.0)
Average oaturity of new loans (yearn)                   22.4        15.1        14.8        16.0      14.1       12.6
Official                                              (30.1)      (26.1)      (20.0)      (17.9)   (16.2)    (16.8)
Private                                                (9.7)       (8.2)       (7.4)       (7.6)     (9.1)    (10.0)
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%) b/
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      28.4        27.0        27.4        26.8      26.8       24.5
IBRD di.burneca- t./tota1 groan dibu.e-ents             24.6        27.1        28.9        22.9      25.7       13.3
IBRD debt service/total debt service                    34.4        28.9        13.7        14.3       8.8       13.1
IDA DOD/total DOD                                        1.6         1.0         0.9         0.8       0.8        0.6
IDA disbtrsecenta/total grosa difb-r-e,ents               -            -          -           -         -           -
IDA debt  -ervice/total debt aervice                      -          0.1         0.1         0.1       0.1        0.0
Aa % of Debt Outatanding
at End of 1979
TERM STRUCTURB
Maturity atruct-re of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities doe within 5 years                                                                                   32.3
Mat-rities doe within 10 years                                                                                  68.6
Intereat stroct-re of debe outstanding ()
Interest doe within first year                                                                                   5.4
at World Back Atlas Method
h/  Asau.es no change in net do-eatic asseta of the rest
of banking system after 1979
c/ Public and publicly guaranteed debt
d/ Prelioinary
February 6,1981
Colombia Diviaion



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
54 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                      918.4      23.5 /1   --
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0                 .6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                 .6
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1                1.9
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0                 .3
920     1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2               9.0
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0                9.0
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                 6.7
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0               12.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0                 3.0
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0               26.9
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                21.5
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   58.3                50.7
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                 1.5
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0               65.1
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0               20.4
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8               12.6
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              23.5
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0              101.1
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0               20.0
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0               12.4
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0                32.9
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0               50.4
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0               60.5
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              13.5
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply      30.0               29.1
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
P'age 2 of 12
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725 /1 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power              72.0             72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal             Water Supply        31.0             31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.   20.0              20.0
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.               Mining-Nickel       80.0             74.3
1807 /1 1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                 87.0             87.0
de Bogota
1825 /1 1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications    44.0              44.0
Medellin
1834 A1 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0              32.0
1857 /1 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0             150.0
1868 71 1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                125.0            125.0
TOTAL                                           2,705.8      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          508.4       2.2
Total now outstanding                           2,197.4      21.3
Amount sold                         50.9
Of which has been repaid            37.9           13.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,184.4      21.3
Total undisbursed                                                 1,206.9
/1   Not yet effective.



-26-                               ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board        .50               .50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99    .08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans         .70      -        .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture   .08    .09          .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment       .50      -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02        2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development         -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles         1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing         -    .81         .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging       -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing      1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Canadera                 Livestock        1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism             -    .01         .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -    .45         .45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -    .43         .43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism           .23    .11         .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism           .80    .25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing             -    .46         .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60       -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining           6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43    .30       2.73
1980       Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing          9.00    .19       9.19
Total Gross Commitments                           49.31  13.84       63.15
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            36.63   8.88      45.51
Total commitments now held by IFC                 12.68   4.96       17.64
Total undisbursed                                  3.00    .19        3.19



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.        Ln. No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Borrower's
financial performance has deteriorated; recently, however, large tariff in-
creases were put into effect and additional ones are being contemplated
which should help to improve overall finances. Completion of the Chuza-
Ventana tunnel section, which was delayed by a methane explosion, is expected
to be completed by mid-1982; all other project elements will be completed by
the end of 1981. Disbursements up to December 31, 1980, amounted to about
99% of the loan amount.
2.        Ln. No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe flooding in
the project area, civil works construction has been halted and a study is being
carried out to reassess the flood protection and drainage requirements of the
area.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
3.        Ln. No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - May 31, 1981
As of December 31, 1980, about 75% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1980, execution improved. INSFOPAL prepared a new implemen-
tation program for each city and works are now contracted and under construc-
tion, with no further delays foreseen. All works are expected to be completed
by May 1981.
4.        Ln. No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed. After considerable delay in
resettling the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita
reservoir was carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The
revised project cost is substantially above appraisal estimat-e, mainly occa-
sioned by higher cost of the civil works and resettlement. As of December 31,
1980, loan funds were fully committed and US$55.7 million or 99% of the loan
amount had been disbursed.
5.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay and
higher costs the scope of the project may have to be reduced.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
6.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
In spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic
stabilization measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily
in most cities. With the exception of the ground water component and Barranquilla
water treatment plant which would be completed by December 1981, all works are
expected to be completed by June 1981. Sub-borrowers have not been implement-
ing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAL is proceeding to take
corrective measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$18.0 million or 67% of the
loan had been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost tilne regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (168 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficientL credit are
lagging because of slow transfer of funds by the Treasury; the Government is
attempting to correct the situation. As of December 31, 1980, IUS$6.7 million
or 34% of the loan remained undisbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies have now agreed to take corrective
measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$8.2 million of the loan amount had
been disbursed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
9.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1980, about 96% of the loan had been
disbursed.
10.       Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of December 31, 1980, US$25.1 million, or 48% of the loan had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The funds originally assigned to medium and large farmers were fully
committed and disbursed and the $2.0 million reallocated to this component will
be fully committed soon. However, only 28% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been disbursed, but commitments have increased recently. Concern
over possible diversion and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower
to i'ncrease substantially its end-use supervision. About 51% of loan funds
for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 116 subprojects. As of
December 31, 1980, US$42.6 million, or 67% of the loan had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Good progress is being made
in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies. As of
December 31, 1980, US$50.7 million, or 87% of the loan, remained undisbursed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
13.       Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    March 31, 1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of December 31, 1980, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.
14.       Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitalion, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
25% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin after a 28-month delay. As of December 31,
1980, about US$25.0 million had been disbursed.
15.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a
year behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--
home food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
16.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements will be resumed once EMCALI has taken corrective measures.
As of December 31, 1980, US$12.6 million or 91% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new Directora
General of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project.
18.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of December 31, 1980, US$24.9 million or
20% of the loan had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award
for substations (KfW was originally to finance this component). The
Government is now exploring other sources of finance.
20.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site will require substantial soil investigations.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
21.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and by the end of December
31, 1980, 99% of the loan funds, or about US$99.1 million had been committed.
22.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and a solution to this
problem is currently being investigated.
23.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although at higher-ithan-anticipated
cost. Performance by the Borrower continues to be satisfactory, although early
next year it will have to take additional tariff measures if its finances are
not to deteriorate.
24.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Physical works are about one year behind schedule, but the implemen-
tation programs for 1980 and 1981 have been accelerated in an endeavor to make
up the time lost and complete the project in 1983.
25.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding slowly. As mentioned in
paragraph 1, the borrower is taking additional tariff measures to improve its
finances.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
26.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Awaiting resolution of the problem of heavy arrears in payments to
ISA from ICEL, a shareholder, the Bank has not yet agreed to the effectiveness
of this loan.
27.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project implementation is under way with the final designs for 16 of
the 23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in
final stages of preparation.
28.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 1, 1980 and project implementa-
tion is underway.
29.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
While some awards of construction contracts are lagging behind
schedule, procurement of equipment and materials is progressing well and
the Borrower is confident that the project will be completed by April 1982.
30.       Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
32.       Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
33.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million.
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
March 12, 1981



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    FNCV
(c)  First presentation to Bank:          June 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:  August 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   September 8, 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:          February 20, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    June 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) FNCV would submit the roads to be constructed and rehabilitated
to the Bank for review and approval (para. 43).
(b) All roads eligible for financing under the proposed loan
would have to have an economic rate of return no less than
11% (para. 43).
(c) FNCV would follow selection and evaluation procedures as
outlined in the manual (para. 43).
(d) FNCV would strengthen its data gathering and processing with the
assistance of consultants, that would be retained no later than
January 1, 1982 (para. 51).
(e) The Government, through MOPT, will service and maintain FNCV's
equipment (para. 54).



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) The Bank's initial advance to the Working Capital Fund (WCF)
would be made upon evidence of the establishment of the WCF
and evidence, viz., Acuerdo de Gasto, that the Government
would provide its share within thirty days (para. 57)..
(g)  The Bank would reimburse the Working Capital Fund provided the
Government has paid its contribution to the Fund within sixty days
of the Bank's disbursement and the Government's new contribution
had been confirmed by the Treasury's Acuerdo de Gasto (para. 57).
(h) Prior to disbursement of Loan proceeds for the Working Capital Fund,
a special account would have to be established and the National
Budget Office vis-a-vis an Acuerdo de Gasto would havie to authorize
the commitment for the Government's initial contribution to the Fund
(para. 57).
(i) Every six months, the Government, FNCV and the Bank would agree
on the financial requirements of the Fund (para. 57).






IBRD 15394
tl:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.
.3-~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
~~44A                 A
i \ \t i Vm~~~s -a <  7o=9  o09>Xo -Xt
0  0  /  s.    t  <- I,29! s;<Affl  W tiR ' 90; ;:;  J   D</  @2  2 t--  i 2/      \       s_ia--i
2:I3\i     4--l;E90)    -   S  6~'>2>uX''g<6i
: 0 t _ 2 t X 3 3g, , e = Br W,  4
:1 1; f ; i X   '   '0 d  . St   / ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -)S
> S t E e k LE s k 2 ^ g E ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~0*;6  A .                                    *4¾. 1^ R .S
tz~ ~~jj®ej   I                                _________                                  ) ,r g tJ   >iit                3C   3a:i  o                   1;t%  U
W  g  111@7iio@*@45|ifi l  4t5g;\Sf\t t\i      wvSt/2°20Sb    2v           g   kj-       c     4    =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  q'~ ,.  ' ~~
| iE   f   \   \   \  E    AS000fC;E'\;D  T:fff X   a L a- D   h;            'LCoSXS1'siU_S_-Jrae\fRgJS ;3
\ > §   0   E  \.  E  \  E  0  \  (D ;f R : f tE jR: 5 5 ) e W E WN DDi 8 C, /



