Document of                      FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3226b-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
COLOMBIA
March 9, 1981
IProjects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed[ without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit                =  Peso (Col$)
US$1                         =  Col$ 47.274 (estimated average 1980)
Col$ 1                       =  US$0.02115
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units of Weight and Measures: Metric
Metric                      British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (ml)
I kilogram (kg)              =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  2.205 pounds
Abbreviations
CIDA                         Canadian International Development Agency
CNR                          Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS                   Colombian Port Authority
CONPES                       Social and Economic Policy Committee
DAAC                         Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics
DNP                          National Department of Planning
DRI                          Integrated Rural Development
FEDECAFE                     National Coffee Federation
FNCV                         National Rural Roads Fund
IDB                          Inter-American Development Bank
IDEMA                        Government Marketing Institution
INCORA                       Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
MOPT                         Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
PIN                          National Integration Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
COLOMBIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ................                                 1
A.  General .... . ...  .. ............ ........... .  ...... * *     1
B.  The Transport System                    .      .                   1
C.  Investments, Regulation, Planning and Coordination                4
D.  Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector             ...          6
Il.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ............ .o..... . ........ .                7
A.    General   ...    .....  o......-0- t............** +....        7
B.  Network Characteristics ................ ** *... @...*...         7
C.  National Highway Administration and Organization                  8
D.  Departmental and Rural Roads                    .    .     .      8
E.  Financing and Road User Charges               ....                9
III. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TBE NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS FUND ......    10
A.    General   .....................................                10
B.  Rural Development Institutions and Rural Roads Programs    11
C.  The National Feeder Roads Fund (FNCV)          .....             12
D.  Rural Road Construction         ... ...............              14
E.  Rural Road Maintenance .....                     . ......    16
F.  Financing and Budgeting .          .....      ............    16
G.  FNCV's Equipment and Force Account Operations. ...                17
IV.  THE 1981-1984 PROGRAM .................. ..................    18
A.  Long-Term Strategy ..............            ............    18
B.  FNCV's 1981-1984 Program   ........... I..............,  19
C.  Implementation ................. 0 .....  ...... *.* ....444     21
D.  Strengthening of FNCV             ................    23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in September 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. J.C. Sallier
(engineer), Lars Nordin (economist), T. Hoglund (research assistant)
and Mrs. H. Ribe (YP, economist). The report has been edited by
Miss V.R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
. . _ .~



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)          (ii)
Page No.
V.   BANK PARTICIPATION ......... . . .. . .  ...................    . .. .............. .  24
A.  Subsector Project       .... .. .... ...........                25
B.  Preparation, Evaluation and Selection of
Project Components *.. ..  **........  .. .............     26
C.  Procurement ..* ................. ... *......   .*. .......     28
D.  Disbursement ......................  ....................       30
E.  Working Capital Fund ..0.6 ......................... ... .      32
F.  Monitoring ..........................                           33
G.  Economic Justification of the Subsector Project                 34
H.  Assessment of Risks                             ......          35
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................... .         35
TABLES
1.1 - National and International Passenger and Freight
Transport  -............................... ..... ......  ...  37
1.2 - Public Sector Investments in Transport ...........               38
1.3 - World Bank Group Involvement in Colombian Transport .....   39
2.1 - Colombian Road Network ... ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ................... .40
2.2 - National Highway Fund Revenues ...                               41
2.3 - Evolution and Composition of Regular Gasoline Prices,
1971-1979   . ....................o....*.. .... .... o ...   42
3.1 - FNCV's Total Road Construction by Department 1961-1979           43
3.2 - FNCV's Road Construction by Activities 1975-1979  ---   44
3.3 - Small Contracting Industry Characteristics ..............        45
3.4 - FNCV's Budget Implementation 1971-1979 (2 pages) ...... ..    46-47
3.5 - FNCV's Equipment Fleet as of September 1980          ............  48
4.1 - Tentative 1981-1984 Financial Program ..   .................   49
4.2 - Origin of Resources for the 1981-1984 Program ... o .......    50
4.3 - Tentative 1981-1984 Physical Program .        ...... ... .  51
4.4  -  Design  Standards   ...... .o..o. .......... . .  ........     ..............   .  52
4.5 - Purchase of Maintenance Equipment ....... .          .........   53
ANNEXES
1 - Road Selection Methodology ..............................   54
2 - Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance .....    63
3 - Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File.   66
CHARTS
I - Organization Chart of MOPT          .............    67
II - Organization Chart of FNCV ........                 ..........  68
MAP
IBRD 15394 - Colombia Rural Roads Project



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      The Andes Mountains in Colombia present formidable barriers to
com.munication among the main population centers in the country, which, until
recently, constituted separate and almost self-sufficient regions. It was
not until the early 1950s that, under the drive toward integration and modern-
ization, the transport system began to evolve into a national network.
1.02      The Magdalena River had been the only transport route between the
central region and the Atlantic coast until, in the early 1960s, construction
and. upgrading of the Western Road (Cartagena-Medellin-Cali-Pasto), the Eastern
Road (Santa Marta-Bucaramanga-Bogota-Neiva), and the two main transverse roads
that connect them in the central region were substantially completed. Since
1961, the Atlantic Railroad has provided a connection between the port of
Santa Marta and the two major urban centers of Bogota and Medellin. During
the last 25 years, the country's port capacity and air transport services
have also expanded considerably.
1.03      During the period 1950-1978, the transport: sector's contribution to
GD? grew at an annual rate of 6.1%, which is larger than the annual growth
rate of 5.2% of total GDP for the same period. At the same time, the share of
the transport sector.in GDP rose from 5.1% in 1950 to: 6.6% in 1978.
1.04      The Colombian inter-urban transport system moved about 21.5 billion
ton-km in 1978, of which about 75% was moved by truck over the national highway
network (Table 1.1). Coastal shipping accounted for about 11%, river transport
about 7%, railways some 6% and aviation about 1%. Although agricultural output
dominates, manufactured goods are becoming an incre.asing share of Colombian
freight. Roads dominate passenger traffic, accounting for almost 71%, while
aviation's share is close to 27%; railways serve only about 2% of the passenger
traffic.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.05      The highway subsector and its administration are discussed in detail
in Chapter II. The rural roads subsector and its administration, as well as
its links with the agriculture sector and the institutions involved in
rural development, are discussed in detail in Chapl:er III.
(ii) Railways
1.06      The railway network in service consists of about 2,705 km of single
track narrow gauge (0.914 meter) lines owned by the Government. The most im-
portant routes, the Atlantic or Trunk Lines, between Santa Marta and Bogota-
Medellin are 1,287 km long and carry over 70% of the total railway traffic.
The Pacific Lines serve only the Department Del Valle, linking mainly
the port of Buenaventura with the city of Cali. The connection between the
Pacific and Atlantic systems was interrupted in 1975 by landslides in a



-2-
critical section of about 140 km south of Medellin. The section has never
been repaired. In view of potential new container traffic and possible coal
exports through the port of Buenaventura, a study is planned to determine the
feasibility of connecting the two systems by constructing a new railway
link between Ibague and Armenia. This would also help to balance the import
and export traffic through the port of Buenaventura.
1.07      The railway system is administered by the Colombian National Railways
(CNR) created in 1963.  Since 1960, the Bank has supported the expansion and
the upgrading of the CNR system through six projects (a seventh is under prep-
aration, para 1.10). The improvement of CNR's financial position and of its
operational efficiency have been the main objectives of the latest projects.
During the early implementation of the last railway project (Loan 926-CO,
US$25.0 million, May 1973), CNR showed good performance. Freight traffic
increased from 1,198 million ton-km in 1972 to 1,329 million ton-km in 1974,
and passenger traffic increased from 398 million pass-km to 482 million
pass-km for the same period. The working and operating ratios were even better
than the appraisal targets, and CNR produced a Col$ 10 million surplus in
1974. After 1974, however, CNR encountered technical, financial and managerial
difficulties which caused its performance to deteriorate sharply. Freight
traffic also decreased to 1,159 million ton-km in 1976 because of a countrywide
economic slowdown and Government restrictions on imports of wheat and fertilizer
which had been transported by CNR. Government interest in the railways appears
to have weakened during this period.
1.08      There has been an upward trend in freight traffic since 1976, yet
the overall share of traffic moved by rail has continued to decline because
of deterioration in railway services and investments in other modes. Although
the competition with trucking is increasing, rail freight is somewhat specia-
lized in that the commodities carried by rail are mostly low value bulk com-
modities moved over comparatively long distances. The average haul is about
460 km. Passenger traffic has been decreasing since 1976 because of the
closure of a number of uneconomic services, reductions in frequencies, ration-
alization of passenger trains and the shortage of locomotives which has caused
more cancellations in passenger trains, including some on the Bogota-Santa
Marta main line.
1.09      Since 1978, the Government has reaffirmed its commitment to the
upgrading of rail transport services and to the improvement of CNR's financial
position. Steps have been taken by the Government to assist the railways
to fulfill its economic role. The Social and Economic Policy Committee of the
Cabinet (CONPES) has approved a recommendation by the National Planning
Department to provide adequate financial assistance for CNR to meet substantial
operating deficits and investment requirements, including planning and design
for the proposed Saboya-Carare link. The main purpose of this link would be
to provide an improved connection between Bogota and Santa Marta and to
facilitate new container traffic and coal exports expected to be mined in the
vicinity of Saboya.
1.1(t     Renewed interest in the long term viability of the railway has been
spurred by increasing energy prices and by the prospect of large-scale haulage
of coal from deposits in the Central and Eastern mountain ranges to the ports
or to domestic industrial centers. The National Transport Plan, stating that



- 3 -
the railways have an important advantage in transporting bulk commodities over
lonag distances, proposes reforms to encourage this t:ype of use of the network,
inaluding marketing strategies and rehabilitation of the track, most of which
is in bad condition. The Bank is preparing a Sevent:h Railway Project address-
ing the present needs of the railway, focusing on institutional improvements
and rehabilitation of CNR's physical assets.
(iii) Inland Waterways
1.11      The traditional importance of inland waterway shipping has decreased
because of the development of road and rail transport. The Magdalena and
Cauca Rivers, together with the man-made Canal del Dique which connects the
port of Cartagena with the Magdalena River, constitute a major transport
system, totaling 1,366 km of navigable waterways, which accounts for almost
all inland shipping. The Magdalena River is quite dependable in all seasons
to Gamarra (about 470 km from the Barranquilla river-sea terminal); beyond
there to Salgar (930 km from Barranquilla), only seasonal navigation is
possible. Other river systems (Amazonas, Orinoco, Atrato), although very
extensive, serve only intraregional transportation of small magnitude.
1.12      Bulk goods, especially petroleum, fertilizer products and cement,
constitute the main freight movement, but there is still competition for
this traffic from other modes. Total traffic in 1977 was 2.3 million tons, of
wlhich 85% consisted of petroleum products. Passenger traffic on the rivers is
negligible. Freight transport services are mostly in private hands while the
administration and maintenance of the river and most ports are under the
jurisdiction of MOPT's Directorate responsible for inland waterways. Inland
shipping has complemented rail traffic to some extent, particularly for goods
originating from and destined to the ports of Cartagena and Barranquilla.
Transshipments to both rail and road can be effected at a number of river
ports further upstream; however, the comparative advantage of road transport
relative to the combined river-rail or river-road movements makes these
combinations viable for just a few products.
(iv) Ports
1.13      The principal seaports of Colombia are Cartagena, Barranquilla and
Santa Marta on the Atlantic coast, and Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific
coast.  They are administered by the Colombian Port Authority (COLPUERTOS),
which is an autonomous Government agency. For about a decade, this agency has
been improving transit storage and cargo-handling facilities with financing
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). About 3 million tons per year
move through the ports; of this total, more than 50% is handled by Buenaventura.
I:n all ports, except Tumaco, the volume of inbound traffic is more than that
of outbound traffic, and only Buenaventura has significant cabotage traffic
other than oil, which is transported mainly from Tumaco to Cartagena via the
Panama Canal.
1.14      One bottleneck to evacuating goods from the ports is the inland
transportation system. In the past, neither the railways (Santa Marta
and Buenaventura have rail services) nor the trucking industry have, at times,
been able to handle the volumes available to them.  More coordination amo-'
nodes of transport and improved information from COLPUERTOS to the transpo:t



- 4 -
services are also needed. Lack of bulk inland storage facilities by IDEMA--
the owner of most of the grains imported in bulk--is another cause of port
congestion. The structure of port charges also at times tends to increase
freight congestion. If demurrage charges were raised sufficiently in relation
to the costs, storing at ports would become uneconomic and the space necessary
for port operation would become available. Low labor productivity and ineffic-
ient cargo handling practices also contribute to high costs and port congestion.
Finally, the use of containers in an efficient intermodal system may help to
alleviate port congestion and is being studied by consultants, financed by UNDP
with the Bank as Executing Agency, in connection with the preparation of a
proposed port project.
(v) Aviation
1.15      The aviation subsector developed very early in Colombia as a result
of the major problems to surface transportation caused by the topography. Air
transport is now a major passenger transport mode for both international and
intercity travel. Domestic freight tonnage has decreased in recent years
although, in terms of ton-km, its volume has remained stable. International
freight traffic, however, has been gaining importance. There are three major
national airlines and eleven foreign airlines providing international services,
and there are ten additional regularly scheduled domestic carriers. Since
1968, aviation has been governed by the Administrative Department of Civil
Aeronautics (DAAC), which is directly responsible to the President of the
Republic. DAAC is supported by the National Aeronautics Fund (FAN).
1.16      There are some 70 airports whose standards vary widely.  In general,
those in the western half of the country are better developed than those in
the east. At present, seven of the airports in mainland Colombia and one
additional on the Caribbean Island of San Andres are equipped to handle
international flights. In view of technological improvements in the aviation
field and the inherent difficulties of surface transport, aviation is most
likely to maintain an increasing role in the country, especially in passenger
transport among major urban centers and in services to the more remote areas
of the Colombian Amazonas. A new airport at Medellin and improvements to
Bogota and Cartagena airports are being implemented under a Bank-financed
aviation project (Loan 1624-CO).
C.   Investments, Regulation, Planning and Coordination
1.17      The effort to complete the basic transport network has required a
considerable share of the country's total investments. Transport represented
between 10% and 15% of total investments and about half of public investments
in the late 1950s. In the 1960s, when the trunk highway system and the
Atlantic Railways were being completed, that share rose to more than 60%.
More recently, however, the transport infrastructure share of total public
investments has been declining; in the late 1960s, it was about 35%, and,
since 1970, it has been about 25%.
1.18      In 1979, about Col$ 12,133 million (about US$282 million) were
invested in the transportation sector (Table 1.2). Of this amount, about 78%
was for highways and road transport (including national highways and depart-
mental and feeder roads), 9% for ports and inland navigation, 12.5% for
airports and 0.5% for rail transport (not including operating subsidies).
The continuous decline in railway investments partly explains the decreased
operating performance of CNR.



1.1.9     The financing of the transport sector is arranged through a com-
biriation of (a) National Funds, e.g., the National Highway Fund, the National
Feeder Road Fund, and the National Aeronautics Fund which are supplied by tax
revrenues, Government contributions and foreign assistance; and (b) general
revenues collected by the transport entities from their customers, e.g., CNR
andl COLPUERTOS. The transport sector institutions follow a policy of cost
recovery, and their pricing policies are generally adequate. However, CNR
has had to resort to Government contributions to finance its operating deficits
because of management difficulties and operational inefficiency, in particular
lack of motive power. Existing cross-subsidies, e.g., between import and
export tariffs in the ports and between freight and passenger tariffs on the
railways, are not of major significance. The heavy subsidization of road
transport over other modes is rapidly being phased out with the considerable
increase in gasoline prices (Table 2.3).
1.20      The transport system developed in a relatively short period of time
in response to heavy demands by the rest of the economy and not as a result of
a deliberate sector planning effort. The responsibility for transport policy
was distributed among Ministries, regional and local governments and decentral-
ized agencies, each of which played an important role in creating the rules
and regulations governing its own activities.  Consequently, there was little
coordination among modes and a lack of regional planning. Until 1966, when,
by Decree 3160, an attempt was made to tie in the various entities in charge
of transportation with the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), no framework
allowing central planning and policy formulation existed. Ministerial
control remained limited, and the lack of coordination persisted.
1.21      More recently, however, there has been considerable strengthening of
sector institutions, with the establishment of central control of the sector
umder MOP which, in 1976, became the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MIOPT). This involved a restructuring in 1976 and a reorganization in 1980
wLth the creation of a Sectoral Planning Office and a National Transport
Council respectively (Chart 1). The National Planning Department (DNP) also
maintains an overall coordinating role and has a transport section in its
infrastructure division devoted to transport matters. The Sectoral Planning
Office of MOPT is responsible for carrying out intermodal planning and coor-
dination. In addition, budgets and investment programs for all modes except
pipelines and aviation now require MOPT approval. The National Transport
Plan, prepared by the Sectoral Planning Office of MIOPT in 1980, defines the
role and goals of each mode and outlines investment programs and their finan-
cing for each component of the sector. It also establishes guidelines for the
distribution of responsibilities for planning, construction and maintenance of
the transport network among national and regional agencies.
1.22      Future revisions of the Plan would place increased emphasis on:
(a) projections of traffic flows by mode and commodity considering changes in
their relative costs as a result of increasing energy prices; (b) identifi-
cation of alternative sources of financing and sector self-financing;
(c) strengthening of mechanisms for timely payment from the Government to
sector institutions, especially the railways; (d) improved coordination among
sector institutions and different modes, e.g., to facilitate intermodal
transport and container traffic, and (e) determination of investment priorities
among modes.



-6-
1.23      The present administration's development strategy combines a new
focus on expansion of the economic infrastructure, designed to integrate
regional markets, with a return to export-led growth and increased emphasis
on improving allocation efficiency. The renewed emphasis on transport and
communication infrastructure, combined with efforts to accelerate growth in
less developed regions of the country, seems appropriate at this stage of
Colombia's development. Transport costs are high and discourage interregional
trade. With these costs lowered, transport services made more reliable, and
incentives provided for investment in areas with growth potential, a substan-
tial boost could be given to interregional trade and to overall economic
growth and employment generation.
D.   Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
1.24      The Bank has played an important role in the development of Colombia's
transport sector. Its involvement dates back to 1949, when a transport sector
mission reported the transport system to be in exceptionally bad condition.
Since 1950, the Bank has lent about US$441 million 1/ in 21 loans to the sector
(Table 1.3). These investments accelerated the construction of an integrated
highway network and, more recently, have contributed to the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the network and to the development of an improved highway
organization. They have also contributed to the construction of over 670 km
of main line on the Atlantic railroad from Dorada to Fundacion, as well as
to the rehabilitation of others. The domestic aviation project is helping to
improve basic aviation infrastructure and to improve subsector efficiency and
planning.
1.25      The first four highway projects, although delayed and with cost
overruns, resulted in the construction or upgrading of 3,200 km of trunk
roads and contributed to the development of a unified trunk road system and
the main mode of freight transport and communication in the country. The
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 550-CO, US$17.2 million, 1968) and the Sixth
Highway Project (Loan 680-CO, US$32 million, 1970) were delayed in execution
by a general economic slowdown, causing untimely provision of local funds, and
by poor contract management and insufficient supervision and coordination by
MOPT. However, these two projects have made important contributions to the
improvement of the trunk road system, assisted in the establishment of better
engineering practices and contractual procedures, and contributed to the
development of the local consulting and construction industries. 2/ The
Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO, US$90 million, June 1977), aimed
primarily at achieving an increased and more efficient use of resources
devoted to maintenance, is accompanied by substantial increases in budgetary
appropriations for spare parts, equipment renewal, materials and periodic
overlays and strengthening of the national highways. After a two-year delay,
this arrangement is now working satisfactorily.
1/   Including an IFC operation for pipeline development.
2/   Sixth Highway Project:  Project Completion Report, October 29, 1980.



1.26      The Bank participation in rural road construction has been through
rural development projects, which also included other activities in the agri-
cultural sector. The First Caqueta Project (1971) involved construction and
improvement of 124 km of low standard roads; the Second Caqueta Rural
Settlement Project (1975) included construction of about 200 km of penetration
roads and complementary road works; and the Second Cordoba Agricultural
Devrelopment Project (1975) included construction of 168 km of all-weather
roads as well as culverts, bridges and other structures. The experience
gained under these projects indicated that special consideration had to be
given to road selection, timely funding and proper maintenance of constructed
roads. More recently, the Integrated Rural Developmient Project (DRI) (1976)
financed construction works corresponding to an equivalent length of 440 km,
which are being successfully implemented by the National Rural Roads Fund
(FNCV).
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   General
2.01      Colombia has a road network totaling about 67,000 km (Table 2.1),
of which almost 23,000 km constitute the national highway system and are under
the jurisdiction of MOPT. The Secretariats of Public Works of the Departments
have approximately 31,000 km and FNCV has approximately 11,200 km of roads.
The balance of about 2,000 km of roads are private, municipal or in the
National Territories. About one-third (7,900 km) of the national system is
paved, while only about 3% of the departmental roads are paved. The remaining
two-thirds are gravel or unsurfaced roads.
B.   Network Characteristics
2.02      The national highway system consists of (a) the primary road network,
of about 10,500 km, which connects the main economic centers among themselves
and with the seaports and neighboring countries; and (b) secondary roads, of
about 12,500 km, that link smaller towns to the primary network and roads
that provide access to other transportation modes (e.g., river ports). The
regional road system comprises secondary roads that link regions of the
departments among themselves, low traffic interdepartmental roads and rural
roads that provide access to isolated regions.
2.03      The road network is not well maintained.  At least half of the
paved roads need asphalt overlays or strengthening in the next ten years to
preserve the pavement structure. MOPT has a physical road inventory of only
10,000 km of its network. No similar information exists for Departmental, or
FNCV, roads, and there is virtually no maintenance of their network. Conse-
quently, the areas of priority of Government road transport policy for the
next years are improved road maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing
network.



C.   National Highway Administration and Organization
2.04      Following the reorganization of the Ministry implemented in May 1980
(Chart 1), MOPT is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the
national highway network. MOPT has about 15,000 employees, including about
250 engineers and 210 technicians. The Highway Directorate, which is under
the jurisdiction of the Technical Secretary, is in charge of the execution and
supervision of highway construction and maintenance done directly by MOPT.
This work is carried out through its 26 districts of public works located in
each of the 23 Departments and in some of the national territories. The
Highway Directorate also administers and controls works done by contractors,
including required engineering studies, and is in charge of the procurement
and maintenance of equipment owned by MOPT.
2.05      The maintenance of Colombia's national highway system has been gener-
ally inadequate, to the extent that, in many cases, roads have deteriorated
so much that they require large outlays for their rehabilitation. Up to 1978,
about 30% of MOPT's budget was allocated for maintenance, but more than 80%
of it was used up in fixed personnel and administrative expenses. Since
1978, allocations for maintenance have increased, allowing rational planning
and programing of routine and periodic maintenance activities. Road mainte-
nance is a first priority of the Government transport policy; it constitutes
about 54% of the program for 1980-1985 as outlined in the National Transport
Plan. Specific measures for improvement of programing and budgeting procedures
are being implemented under the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO).
2.06      Two studies conducted in the 1970s recommended improvements in the
organization of MOPT's maintenance operations. Workshop facilities and
staffing were strengthened, and a pilot program was established in the district
of Tunja. Little attention, however, was paid to the management of the equip-
ment fleet. INIDO experts assisted MOPT's Equipment and Workshops Division
from 1973 to 1976 in the programing of equipment maintenance. The maintenance
system, being implemented under the Seventh Highway Project, requires the
stocking of fast-moving spare parts in the districts, with automatic reordering
at predetermined levels. Preventive maintenance, together with an equipment
replacement program, would improve equipment availability and eventually allow
a reduction in the number of units needed to maintain the highway network
adequately. In an effort to accelerate improvement in maintenance, MOPT is
hiring contractors to carry out routine and periodic maintenance of the paved
national highways. The present goal is to contract about 6,000 km.
D.  Departmental and Rural Roads
2.07      The administration of departmental secondary and rural roads is
under the jurisdiction of either the Secretariats of Public Works of the
Departmental Governments or FNCV. The Secretariats have responsibility for
planning, constructing and maintaining secondary and rural roads. The per-
formance of these entities varies greatly. The Departments of Antioquia,
Cundinamarca, and Valle have relatively strong road organizations geared to



- 9 -
plan and carry out construction and improvements funded under the departmental
bucdgets, but are still deficient on the maintenance side. Most of the other
Departments have limited financial resources and, consequently, have not
developed adequate organizations to deal with their roads.
2.08      In order to support and supplement the efforts of the Departments,
FNCV was created and made responsible for planning, constructing and maintain-
ing feeder roads in all regions of the country. Once completed, the roads
conastructed by FNCV can be transferred to the Departments, provided they have
the capabilities to assume the extra maintenance responsibilities. FNCV is
described in more detail in Chapter III.
2.09      Other agencies involved with feeder roads are the Instituto
Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria (INCORA), the Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia, Metereologia y Adecuacion de Tierras (HIMAT) and the Federacion
Nacional de Cafeteros (FEDECAFE).  These institutions undertake the building
of feeder roads under projects within their specific jurisdiction or for the
benefit of their members. Their feeder road construction programs have not
overlapped with FNCV's programs. The demand for rural road improvements
substantially exceeds the combined capacity of FNCV and the above-mentioned
organizations. Works of the three agencies are often coordinated by FNCV,
which provides them with assistance and advice. However, maintenance of these
roads is largely limited to exceptional repairs.
2.10      According to Government criteria, MOPT is responsible for the
maintenance of the national highway system through its 26 Regional Districts,
and the Departments would eventually assume responsibility for maintenance of
a:Ll departmental and rural roads in their areas. INCV, which has a reponsi-
bility for maintaining its rural roads, does not want to develop into another
labor-heavy bureaucracy. Therefore, there is reason for delegating, in the
long run, maintenance responsibilities of FNCV roads to the Departments as
they acquire the proper capabilities.
E.   Financing and Road User Charges
2.11      The National Highway Fund (Fondo Vial Nacional) was created in 1966
for the purpose of channeling all resources devoted to the highway subsector.
The Fund, which has no staff of its own, is administered by MOPT. Its main
source of income is the gasoline tax (114% of the refinery price), which,
since 1976, has accounted for over 70% of the Fund revenues (Table 2.2). The
proportion has risen to that level from about 50% in previous years, reflecting
the Government's policy to increase prices and taxation of gasoline. The
Fund's other sources of revenue include foreign financial assistance (IBRD,
IDB and others), own resources (such as vehicle license fees, assessment taxes
and toll proceeds) and direct Government contributions which are being phased
out since increases in gasoline prices and taxation began in 1975. During the
].970s, about 30% of national highway expenditures were for maintenance, 50%
for construction and 20% for other expenses. Since 1978, however, the share
of maintenance expenses has been increasing; it was about 40% in 1979, and
rehabilitation has emerged as a significant category constituting about 10% of
t:he Highway Fund expenses in 1979.



- 10 -
2.12      The Government has been increasing gasoline prices gradually since
August 1975. Table 2.3 gives the price structure for regular, low octane
gasoline. It reflects taxes accruing to the National Highway Fund as well as
other taxes, transportation charges (which accrue to Ecopetrol) and distribution
margins. Price increases took place monthly from September 1975 to September
1976, and further increases were decreed in the following years. After the
most recent increase in October 1980, prices have reached a level of Col$ 52.50
(about US$1.06) per gallon for high octane gasoline and Col$ 44.00 (about
US$0.89) per gallon for regular gasoline and diesel fuel. Increasing gasoline
and diesel prices to reach international price levels as quickly as possible
is an important element of the Government's economic policy. The equivalent
import price "at the pump" amounts to about US$44.53 per barrel or US$1.06 per
gallon for regular gasoline. With an estimated consumption of 26.5 million
barrels in 1980, the implicit economic subsidy amounts to some US$189 million,
or 0.7% of GDP, compared to some US$435 million, or 1.6% of GDP, in 1979. In
the next few years, the revenues of the National Highway Fund would sustain an
increased level of maintenance expenditures and cover programed highway
investments, including rehabilitation and construction for primary roads as
well as for rural roads.
III. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE NATIONAL FEEDER ROADS FUND
A.   General
3.01      Colombia has evolved from a largely traditional rural and agricul-
tural production base to a more industrial and urbanized economy, with a
substantial service sector. Since the 1950s, the share of agriculture in GDP
has declined from 40% to 26% while the shares of industry and services have
risen from 18% to 35% and from 33% to 44% respectively. The productive base
of the economy has widened considerably, and production in both the agricul-
tural and the industrial sectors has become more diversified. The country is
largely self-sufficient in basic food supply, and it is even a net exporter of
agricultural products. Despite the success in export diversification that
started in the mid-1960s, the economy is still heavily dependent on coffee and
agricultural exports; in 1979, exports of coffee and other agricultural
products were 60% and 10% of total merchandise exports respectively.
3.02      Outside the major urban centers, economic growth has been concentrated
in a few areas of high agricultural productivity; large parts of the country
are isolated and have been virtually untouched by past advances. The modern
agricultural sector, consisting of farms larger than 20 ha, produces a large
proportion of basic food items for domestic consumption and is responsible for
the expansion and diversification of agricultural exports and for the growth
in industrial processing of agricultural products. The traditional agricultural
sector, on the other hand, produces mainly food crops for direct consumption,
with techniques that have changed very little over the years, on farms smaller
than 20 ha. These farms are located mostly in low yield areas in the Andean
highlands above the coffee zone and have poor communication with the rest of
the country. About one-quarter of the workers in the country are employed in
agricultural activities, and they receive about 17% of the total labor income.



- 11 -
3.03      Nearly 10 million people, or about 30% of Colombia's total popula-
tion, live scattered in rural areas or in rural centers with less than 2,500
inhabitants. Only 60% of the rural communities are linked by all-weather roads.
In 1975, about 55% of the rural population and 24% of the urban population
were living in absolute poverty. Public services are not available to most
rural residents or to a large percentage of the urban population, although
significant advances have occurred in this regard recently.
3.04      In the early 1970s, emphasis changed to targeting more directly the
provision of public services and income opportunities to the poorest 50% of
the population. This action resulted in integrated rural development, nutri-
tion and health programs, education, rural electrification, water supply and
sewerage programs. The expansion of feeder road programs to reach and inte-
grate isolated regions of the country is another component of the Government's
efj-ort to raise the productivity of "minifundia" and., consequently, the
ineomes of small farmers.
B.   Rural Development Institutions and Rural Roads Programs
3.95      Colombia has a large number of ministries and institutions which are
directly or indirectly involved in rural development. Coordination of strate-
gies, plans and work programs is done by the National Planning Department
(DNP) which is directly responsible to the President: of the Republic. At the
implementation level, the Ministry of Agriculture is the most important
Government organization in charge of agricultural development. The Agricultural
Sector Planning Office (OPSA) is the planning and coordinating unit within the
Ministry. It cooperates closely with the agricultural unit of DNP.
3.06      DRI (para 1.26) is a comprehensive program of assistance focused
on developing production-oriented programs for small farmers in potentially
productive regions of the country, associated with improvements to supporting
and social services and infrastructure. DRI is administered by a special
unit in DNP responsible for coordination of several activities in the rural
sector including credit, extension services including training and marketing,
reforestation, feeder road construction, electrification, water supply, educa-
tion and health services. Feeder road construction constitutes about 20%
of the DRI project; 69 road sections have already been constructed or are
under way (233 km equivalent), and the work has been undertaken successfully
by FNCV as executing agency (para 1.26).
3.07      The major extension and research service is the Instituto Colombiano
Agrropecuario (ICA), which is responsible for agricultural and livestock
development. With the exception of its participation in DRI, the Institute
has had many shortcomings, mostly due to lack of definition of specific
priorities, which have led to duplication of efforts and to disregard of
economic factors in the agronomic recommendations.
3.08      Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (Caja Agraria) is the
principal agricultural credit bank in Colombia.  Currently, the Caja Agraria
is a mixed enterprise in which the Government has 89% of the shares. The
agency has several activities that reach small farmers: credit, extension
services and distribution of agricultural inputs. It has been involved in shIh
implementation of the credit component of the DRI program.



- 12 -
3.09      Since 1961, INCORA (para 2.09) has been involved in programs of
distribution of public land and redistribution of unused private land.
Currently, INCORA's land-titling activities are limited mostly to distributing
titles on public land in colonization areas to small-scale farmers. INCORA
was also assigned to handle a wider range of activities, including credit,
technical assistance, colonization, feeder road construction, irrigation and
drainage, to assist land reform beneficiaries in developing their newly
acquired holdings.
3.10      The main organization promoting agricultural cooperatives is CECORA;
most of these cooperatives are both marketing and service enterprises. IDEMA
has had a main objective of promoting an increase in agricultural production
through incentives given by a price support policy and the purchase of a
significant part of agricultural output. Relatively little progress has been
made so far in providing an effective marketing system for the diversified
production of small farms, with the exception of coffee.
3.11      Finally, FEDECAFE (para 2.09) is a producers' association with
semi-official status, which, for many years, has reinvested tax revenue from
coffee exports in the development of rural infrastructure in coffee-growing
areas. FEDECAFE has constructed roads to serve its affiliates directly, using
contractors, as well as in cooperation with the Departments and FICV. This
network is well maintained and documented in a road inventory for the coffee
areas. FEDECAFE also provides good price information, extension, collection
and marketing services.
C.   The National Feeder Roads Fund (FNCV)
3.12      FNCV was created in 1960 and began operating in 1961 as an organi-
zation dependent upon MOPT. In 1968, it gained partial autonomy, and, in
1972, it was reorganized and received full autonomy. FNCV is directed by a
seven-member board presided over by the Minister of Public Works and Transport.
The Ministers of Agriculture and Interior are also represented. The Fund is
managed by a Director General who is appointed by the President of the Republic.
Its staff of about 1,600 includes some 100 engineers and several economists;
headquarters are located in Bogota. It has two Directorates: Administration
and Engineering, as well as a Planning Office created in 1977. The agency
has 24 decentralized Regional Directorates. The fiscal supervision of the
agency is the responsibility of the Controller-General of the Republic.
3.13      The purpose of FNCV is the construction, upgrading and maintenance
of feeder or rural roads, a task to be undertaken in cooperation with depart-
mental and other local authorities. Most of the existing feeder road system
has been constructed either totally or partially by FNCV. Between 1961
and 1979, FNCV constructed about 8,000 km of rural roads and finished about
5,300 km of road construction started by other entities. Most of these roads
have an average length of about 5 km and are built to all-weather gravel
standard with a riding surface 4.5 m wide. Most of the rural road works have
been contracted by small, local firms, and only a minor portion has been
undertaken by force account. In general, the quality of the completed
roads has been good. For lack of planning and erratic funding, FNCV has



- 13 -
had. many instances in which projects were pushed for political reasons and
never reached completion or were delayed to the point that the initial works
carried out had to be restored before project resumption.
3.1.4     Although FNCV has always conducted its operations through the same
basic system of at least two Sub-Directorates, Technical (Engineering) and
Administrative, it has, since 1969, gone through three structural changes.
The major purpose of the various changes has been to improve technical, program-
ing and planning capabilities, as well as to strengthen the regional offices.
The agency's present structure is presented in Chart: 2.
3.L5      The Sub-Directorate of Engineering is responsible for the programing
and execution of road construction and maintenance activities, and it is com-
posed of three divisions:  Technical, Supervision and Control and Physical
Programing. The Sub-Directorate of Administration and Finance is responsible
for both administrative (personnel policies, training, social welfare, purchase
and supplies) and financial matters (formulation and implementation of budget,
general accounting, income and expenditures). It is composed of four divi-
sions: Finance, Physical Resources, Health Services and Administration. The
Planning Office is responsible for preparation of FNCV plans, coordination
of the process through which the draft budget is prepared, evaluation of imple-
mentation of plans and conducting of special studies. It is composed of two
sections: Organization and Procedures, Planning and Socio-Economic Studies.
3.16      FNCV also has 24 Regional Directorates -- one in each of Colombia's
2I Departments and one for the remaining National Territories. Except for the
National Territories' Regional Directorate, headquartered in Bogota, the other
Regional Directorates are located in the Departmental capitals. These
Directorates are responsible for execution of FNCV programs in the various
Departments and for maintaining contacts with the Departmental authorities
for purposes of coordination.
3.17     FNCV's manpower requirements for its 1981-1984 work program are as
follows:
Regional
Headquarters     Directorates    Total
White-collar civil servants 1/          180               483          663
Blue-collar civil servants 27            60              890           950
Total                             240             1,373         1,613
1/   Civil servants in Colombia are divided into two categories -- white-
collar (empleados publicos) and blue-collar (trabajadores oficiales).
The first category, which consists of technical and administrative
personnel, is governed by Statutory Regulations.
2/   The blue-collar category consists of skilled and unskilled workers.
Since they are employed on contracts of unspecified duration, in effect
they enjoy permanent appointments.



- 14 -
The agency's white-collar staff includes the university-trained individuals
(some with specialist degrees), who are found in its managerial and profes-
sional ranks. FnCV's present structure is suitable for its operatiQns. Except
for specialized key technical and managerial positions, FNCV would not have
to expand its staff over the next few years; the proper policy should be to
upgrade the effectiveness of the existing staff and to put a ceiling on the
total number of employees in each major category. During negotiations, it was
agreed that FNCV would, by June 30, 1982, inform the Bank about its staffing
policies and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment.
D.   Rural Road Construction
3.18      FNCV carries out its own construction programs by force account or
by using small contractors, and it is the executing agency for a number of
programs designed by other entities. FNCV has not kept a systematic, organized
record of its activities since it first began operations. The information
available was collected recently from data furnished by the Regional Direc-
torates, and it is presented only at an aggregate level. Table 3.1 shows
roads constructed entirely by FNCV and additional works completed by them but
started by other entities such as Departments or municipalities. Table 2.1
shows Colombia's road network as per the various jurisdictions involved in its
construction and maintenance. The part of the network constructed entirely by
FNCV (7,962 km) represents about 12% of the total road network length. If the
5,337 km completed by FNCV are included, that figure rises to about 19%.
3.19      FNCV classifies its activities into four categories:  surveys,
earthworks, drainage works and graveling. These four categories are stages
in road construction, with a road being ready for use after completion of
drainage works and graveling. FNCV has data on road construction using this
type of breakdown available since 1975 (Table 3.2). This system of presenting
information reveals the total of works executed but not the actual status of
the network (i.e., the degree to which construction has advanced). FNCV is
preparing a full inventory of the status of its network which would be completed
by November 30, 1981. This inventory would be used for the physical programing
of the 1982 program and beyond and would be updated annually by June 30 of each
subsequent year. This was confirmed at the time of negotiations.
3.20      FNCV has been responsible for the execution of ten programs since
1971. The four major programs are:
(a)  Regular Program:  this program consists of FNCV's direct road
construction and maintenance activities, and it is financed by its
own general resources. The program was FNCV's largest in 1971,
about two-thirds of its total activities, but has been gradually
losing its relative importance in favor of specific projects and
was down to about one-third in 1978.
(b)  IDB Program:  this program started in 1970 and lasted until 1978;
during 1971-1976, it constituted roughly one-third of FNCV's
activities; about half in 1972 and 1973. Under this project,
46 secondary roads were successfully completed.
(c)  Labor-Int_.isive (Pico y Pala) Program:  this program was originated
in 1972 with an agreement between the Ministry of Public Works and
the Ministry of Agriculture. Initially, it was funded by these
two ministries and FEDECAFE; between 1975 and 1978, it was partially
funded by USAID. IDB has approved an extension of this program



- 15 -
starting in 1981. This construction program is based on labor-
intensive techniques, using local manpower. Since 1973, this
program has constituted about one-fifth of FNCV's budget. It has
been a successful project, demonstrating competitiveness with
mechanized construction for earthmoving operations, in rolling
terrain and in areas with surplus labor.
(d)  Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI):  this program was
mentioned in paragraph 3.06. FNCV has been the executing agency for
the road component of the program, which :is supported by IDB and
CIDA and by the Bank (Loan No. 1352-CO).  The DRI program has
accounted for about 40% of FNCV's operations during 1978 and 1979.
3.21      There are 1,063 contractors registered with FNCV who can engage in
feeder road construction. These contractors are classified into four groups
according to their equipment and financial capability (Table 3.3).  Only
Class I contractors, 30% of the total, are equipped to handle all aspects of
road construction under FNCV programs. Class II and Class III contractors,
42% of the total, need to rent additional equipment to do the gravel course.
Class IV contractors, 20% of the total, are capable only of handling small
drainage works. The average contractor owns approximately US$200,000 worth of
e(Iuipment and is capable of building about 5 to 10 km of rural roads per year.
It is estimated that the overall capability of the small contracting industry
is equivalent to about 3,000 km per year, and that about 50% of this potential
is presently idle. It is also estimated that about 95% of the construction
actually carried out by these contractors is financed equally by FNCV and by
t.le Departments, and the remaining 5% is undertaken by the private sector.
Because of their small size, the contractors are de!pendent on regular payments.
Otherwise, they suffer a financial burden which may result in insolvency and
disruption of construction.
3.22      The small contractors are not evenly distributed around the country;
it is estimated that about 75% of them are located in a radius of 100 km from
Bogota. These contractors have little mobility, whiich produces an unbalanced
situation where any bidding for works to be executed in the Bogota area attracts
about ten proposals against an average of three for similar projects in the rest
of the country. This situation may produce bottlenecks for an ambitious con-
struction program in all the country. For this reason, FNCV has considered
complementary alternatives, such as (a) the "pico y pala" program, which would
be used for works located in mountainous terrain with soft material and when
there is an abundance of unemployed labor and which would represent about 25%
of the 1981-1984 construction program and (b) force account construction in
remote areas where contractors are not available.  FNCV's 1981-1984 program
would encourage small contractors to work in new regions of the country,
through better programing and regular payments. Primary support for equipment
upgrading would also be available to contractors through the special line of
credit under the Eighth Development Finance Project (Loan 1857-CO, US$150 mil-
lion, May 27, 1980), setting aside US$15 million equivalent for the purpose.



- 16 -
E.   Rural Road Maintenance
3.23      FNCV, according to its statutes, is responsible for maintenance of
the roads it builds until the time they are transferred over to the Jurisdic-
tion of the Departments. FNCV was established with the main function of
constructing and improving roads of particular interest to local communities
or of particular importance to support rural development programs. It was
intended that roads once built or improved would be transferred to the
Departments for maintenance. However, the Departments have been reluctant
to take up this responsibility since most of them lack the necessary capacity
and funds. FNCV has therefore faced an increasing maintenance responsibility.
As mentioned in Chapter II, the problem of deficient road maintenance is
widespread, affecting even primary and secondary roads under MOPT jurisdiction.
3.24      Because of the lack of an adequate inventory of the feeder road
network and because existing estimates from various sources differ from each
other, there is no comprehensive knowledge of the extent of the maintenance
problem for feeder roads. Although about 1,700 km in 1978 and 1,600 km in
1979 received some emergency maintenance, the lack of proper policies and
adequate equipment for maintenance have rendered the situation severe. FNCV
has started a detailed road inventory to be completed by November 30, 1981.
This inventory would be used in the preparation of future budgets. The
current situation calls for strengthening of maintenance capacity and for
implementation of a' rehabilitation plan for roads which have deteriorated
because of past neglect.
F.   Financing and Budgeting
3.25      FNCV is financed from a wide variety of sources.  In the prepara-
tion of its own budget, the agency classifies its various sources of funds in
two categories: own resources and appropriations under the National Budget.
The first category, amounting to about 20% in 1975 and declining rapidly to 7%
in 1979, includes the proceeds from direct taxes, mainly the beer tax, and
from areas where property tax assessment revenues are derived. The second
category, amounting to about 80% in 1975 and 93% in 1979, covers mainly the
revenues from the National Highway Fund (10% of the proceeds of the gasoline
tax), supplemental funds voted by the Legislature and funds from external
sources.
3.26      Table 3.4 presents the approved, received and executed budgets of
FNCV for the period 1971-1979 expressed in 1971 Colombian pesos and in current
Colombian pesos. First, it can be observed that, at constant prices, FNCV's
budgets over the period 1974-1977 have been below the levels of 1972 and 1973,
when IDB and FNCV's own programs peaked. FNCV's expenditures have risen since
1972 and have, after the execution of the DRI project started, almost doubled,
indicating a capacity for rapid expansion by the agency as soon as increased
resources are released.
3.27      Second, in every year since 1971, only part of the appropriated
funds was received and used in the execution of projects; during 1975-1979, on
average, 66% of the appropriated budget was received, and 73% of the available
resources were used effectively during the same year. The difference between



- 17 -
initial budget allocation and funds actually made available to FNCV is a
result of slow and incomplete disbursements by MOPT and the National Treasury.
The difference between funds available and real expenditure on projects is due
to the fact that, in general, about 50% of the funds are actually made avail-
e.ble to FNCV in the last three months of each fiscal year, leaving little time
to spend them during the same calendar year.
3.28      The salaries and overhead expenses account for about 40% of total
FNCV expenditures in 1979.  This proportion is relatively high, although
it is in line with those of some similar administrations in Latin America.
Given the nature of FNCV's operations with small scattered works, one should
expect relatively high overhead.  It is clear, nonetheless, that 40% is too
hiigh. The buildup of FNCV's operations in the early 1970s was accompanied by
an expansion of staff and of organizational infrastructure. The subsequent
Letdown of works left FNCV with considerable excess capacity. The Government
llow recognizes the need to reduce FNCV's overhead and has declared a "freeze"
Dn recruitment. As the FNCV program develops over the coming years, FNCV's
capacity would be fully utilized, and its overhead would become a smaller
portion of its total expenditures. Improvement in accounting and management
information systems would also foster better control of overhead (para 4.21).
C.   FNCV's Equipment and Force Account Operations
3.29      The existing equipment is assigned to the Regional Directorates and
used only for construction, rehabilitation and emergency maintenance. Equip-
ment policy is shaped by the need to complement the capacity of the construc-
tion industry when required. Therefore, no systematic renewal of equipment
is envisaged. Because of the new emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation,
FNCV must increase its equipment fleet to support "peon caminero" effort by
supplying gravel for patching and handling landslides. This additional
equipment must be assigned for maintenance in a flexible way to increase its
utilization (para 4.18).
3.30      The total FNCV equipment fleet (Table 3.5) consists of 589 units,
including 248 units obtained in a barter agreement with East Germany for
coffee in 1980 with a three-year stock of spare parts and no local possibility
of additional spare parts replacement; about 162 units either obsolete or
under repair; and the remaining 179 working units, which are, on average,
10 years old.
3.31     Before the arrival of the new equipment in 1980, it was estimated
that equipment availability was about 35%. The main causes of the low avail-
ability were the age of the fleet, inadequate preventive maintenance practices,
and a severe shortage of spare parts. The existing FNCV workshops do not have
an adequate stock of spare parts or tools to undertake the required maintenance
and repairs, and FNCV cannot afford to build up a workshop equipment mainte-
nance and repair capability. Therefore, MOPT should be in charge of this
task. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that the MOPT Districts,
which are relatively better equipped, would carry out the maintenance of
FNCV's equipment at FNCV's expense in accordance with organizational arrange-
ments acceptable to the Bank.



- 18 -
3.32      FNCV's policy in the future would be to implement most of its works
by contractors. However, given the isolation of some roads and the limited
capacity of Colombian contractors in parts of the country, some work would
also have to be done by force account. FNCV's force account capability, con-
sidering the equipment available in December 1980, is estimated to correspond
to about 130 km per year of new construction.
IV.  THE 1981-1984 PROGRAM
A.   Long-Term Strategy
4.01     There exists a fundamental need to improve the care being given rural
roads in Colombia.  The present system, which splits responsibilities between
FNCV and a number of decentralized departmental agencies, does not have suffi-
cient coordination to provide adequate levels of construction, rehabilitation,
and maintenance.
4.02     The development of the Government's long-term strategy to address
this need is based on present realities. Two factors are particularly
important:
(a) The decentralization policy dictates that departmental agencies
perform an increasing amount of rural road work. This implies
that the coordination and management of decentralized activities
constitute an important area upon which to focus attention.
(b) Of the many entities dealing with rural roads in the country,
only FNCV has an established capability at the national level.
The long-term strategy for the Government is to strengthen the planning,
managerial and control capabilities of FNCV, with the aim of eventually
developing the organization into an efficient planning and funding agency
for programs carried out by the departmental agencies. The Government s
long-term strategy would be discussed regularly with the Bank (para 5.22).
FNCV would have the authority to establish guidelines for project selection
and design, for construction management and for maintenance and would enforce
these guidelines through allocation of financial resources. From such a
position, FNCV would be able to ensure the design and implementation of a
balanced policy of new construction and rehabilitation, and the buildup of
maintenance operations to satisfactory levels nationwide.
4.03      A recent analysis of FNCV-s rural road network indicates that about
50% of the total is ten years old or more, and at least 65% is six years old
or more. In the past, no significant maintenance activity was carried out.
It can be assumed, therefore, that 50 to 70% of the existing network is in
unsatisfactory condition and should be rehabilitated. FNCV has designed a
balanced and comprehensive policy, initiated by its 1981-1984 program, to
improve the conditions of rural roads over the next ten years. The goals of
FNCV's policy are to:



- 19 -
(a)  rehabilitate the entire FNCV network between 1981 and 1990, while
simultaneously constructing about 5,600 km of new rural roads;
(b)  initiate a routine maintenance policy for new and rehabilitated
roads that would provide for the continual upkeep of all rural
roads under FNCV's responsibility by 1990; and
(c) initiate a systematic policy of periodic regraveling in 1985 for
that portion of the network seven years or older to reduce the rate
of degradation and the need for additional rehabilitation.
4.04      The physical targets envisaged by the po:Licy are well within FNCV's
capabilities. The average workload of each regional directorate by 1990
would be quite reasonable, amounting to:
- approximately 30 km of new construction (between three and five
road stretches)
- approximately 80 km of rehabilitation (about eight stretches)
- approximately 50 km of regraveling (about five stretches) and
- approximately 600 km of routine maintenance (requiring about
120 laborers)
4.05      To achieve a balanced program providing for the continual upkeep of
the entire road network, FNCV would gradually shift emphasis from construction
to rehabilitation and maintenance. This shift is reflected in the following
1990 tentative program breakdown:
- 35% for new construction, as opposed t:o 82% in 1981
- 50% for rehabilitation, as opposed to 18% in 1981
- 10% for routine maintenance, as opposed to almost 0%
in 1981, and
- 5% for regraveling, as opposed to 0% in 1981.
Contemplated increases in the level of funding received from the Highway Fund
and from external sources would give the Government adequate financial
resources to carry out the ten-year policy. In case of unanticipated financial
difficulties, the rational contingency plan would be to decrease the amount of
new construction and to maintain the vital rehabilitation and maintenance
components.
B.   FNCV's 1981-1984 Program
4.06      The objectives of FNCV's 1981-1984 program are to initiate the imple-
mentation of the long-term strategy outlined above by: (a) gradually increas-
ing the proportion of rehabilitation works in FNCV's working program;



- 20 -
(b) providing the basis for a maintenance system; and (c) strengthening
FNCV's capability in planning, management and control. Based on historical
data, a balanced policy to be followed by FNCV during 1981-1984 would be such
that the length of the rehabilitation program would be at least 80% of the
length of the new construction program and that, during the following year,
the rehabilitated and constructed roads would be routinely maintained. This
ratio would be revised after the results of the inventory, which will be known
by November 30, 1981. During negotiations, FNCV confirmed its policy to
achieve a proper balance between new construction, rehabilitation and routine
maintenance.
4.07      The 1981-1984 new construction and rehabilitation program (Table 4.1)
comprises five subprograms: DRI I, DRI II, Pico y Pala, the Proposed Rural
Roads Project, and the ordinary FNCV program. The DRI I project is scheduled
to end in 1981. DRI II should start late in the same year. The DRI projects
represent about 20% during the four-year period. The projects are financed
jointly by the Bank, IDB, and CIDA. The Pico y Pala subprogram, representing
19%, is an IDB-financed effort devoted to construction through the use of
labor-intensive techniques. The Bank-financed Rural Roads Project makes up
37%, leaving 24% to be financed entirely by FNCV under its ordinary program.
4.08      The 1981-1984 program (Table 4.1) amounts to US$226 million and
would be financed as indicated in Table 4.2; 64% of this figure is for invest-
ment, 6% for maintenance, and 30% for management, design, scpervisioi, aad
debt servicing. Investment expenditures can be divided into 70% for construc-
tion (2,025  km), 29% for rehabilitation (1,810 km), and 1% for studies to be
carried out by consultants. The maintenance program is divided into 75% for
equipment purchases and 25% for routine maintenance (4,580 km). The equipment
purchase requirements have been tentatively defined. Management, design and
supervision expenditures are estimated to decrease from 40% of the total in
1981, to 33% in 1982, 25% in 1983, and 24% in 1984. The high 1981 percentage
reflects decentralization costs and idle labor during that year.
4.09      The 1981-1984 physical investment program shown in Table 4.3 comprises
the construction of 2,025 km at an average cost of about US$49,000 per km and
the rehabilitation of about 1,810 km at an average cost of about US$25,000 per
km. This is equivalent to about 2,900 km of new construction, considering
that rehabilitation is about half the cost of construction or an average of
730 km per year.  Given that FNCV constructed about the equivalent of 871 km
of new construction in 1979 (Table 3.2), this program is well within the
capabilities of FNCV. Based on the length of roadwork to be performed, the
proportion of rehabilitation works is 28% in 1981, 447 in 1982, 48% in 1983,
and 59% in 1984. The rather low proportion in 1981 is due to the completion
of the first DRI program, which did not consider rehabilitation a major
priority, and to the IDB-financed Pico y Pala Programq, which deals only with
new construction.



- 21 -
C.   Implementation
(i) Project Identification and Selection
4.10      The roads to be constructed by FNCV are identified from direct
petitions presented by rural communities. There are always far more petitions
than resources available. The methodology for selection of roads and prepa-
ration of specific subprojects has been prepared by FNCV in close cooperation
with the Bank and IDB and is contained in FNCV's "Manual for Selection of
Rural Roads" 1/.
4.11      In order to achieve a regional balance in the distribution of its
funds, FNCV divides its investment budget among the Departments according
to guidelines prepared by DNP, which consider road and population densities.
The! average allocation per Department is about 4.6% with a maximum of about
102 for the Department of Antioquia and a minimum of about 0.7% for the
Department of Quindio. The selection of roads to be constructed within each
Department follows several stages described in Annex 1. First, by using
a points system, the most promising roads are preselected for further- analysis.
The main factors taken into account at this stage are the terrain, population
density, land distribution, potential for increased agricultural production,
distance to markets, and access to extension services and agricultural credit.
These roads are then evaluated in more detail, using, the economic rate of
return (ERR). Economic benefits consist mainly of producer surplus for new
roads. Rehabilitation projects yield producer surplus due to alleviation of
seasonal interruptions as well as cost savings on established traffic flows.
After discarding roads with an economic return less than the opportunity cost
of capital (11%), the selected roads are ranked, either on the basis of
ER'R or using the social rate of return. FNCV's evaluations would provide the
basis to estimate the social rate of return of selected subprojects. At this
point, FNCV is interested in testing the use of the social rate of return to
establish relative priorities among justified subprojects.
(ii) Design, Studies, Procurement and Supervision
4.12      Rural road design standards (Table 4.4) are determined by FNCV
regulation No. 448, dated April 10, 1975. These standards are compulsory for
FNCV and are widely used in the departmental public works administrations and
other entities, such as DRI or INCORA, dealing with rural roads. Three classifi-
cations are used, based on traffic levels. These are further subdivided accord-
ing to the type of terrain, giving a total range of eight classifications.
These standards are reasonable and adequate, and no modifications are envisaged.
4.13      FNCV has 22 surveyor teams that would carry out about half of the
te!chnical studies (all of the studies related to the Pico y Pala Program
arnd most of the studies related to rehabilitation works). The rest of the
technical studies would be contracted to consulting firms. Because the quality
of the studies carried out by the consultants is uneven (overdesigning is not  3
uncommon), FNCV has decided to reject any project presenting more than 25,000 m
of excavation on average per kilometer and to ask for additional survey efforts.
1/   Metodologia y Criterios para la Seleccion de Caminos, FNCV Document
O.P. No. 031, September 1980.



- 22 -
The average cost of final engineering work done by consultants is about
US$1,200 per kilometer, or about 3% of the construction cost (which is a quite
reasonable percentage).
4.14      Supervision of the works would be carried out either by FNCV teams
or contracted consultants. Past experience indicates that the quality of
supervision performed by both of these groups is satisfactory. Normally,
consultants provide only 50% of the supervisory services called for by FNCV.
For the 1981-1984 program, however, this ratio would probably increase to 60%
because of the heavy requirements of the Pico y Pala Program for FNCV super-
visory teams. Once consultants have been mobilized in the field, their fees
are due and paid even when contractors are not working because of lack of
funds, which raises average supervisory costs from 10 to 15% of the cost of
the works. Substantial savings would be obtained on supervision charges
from the smooth flow of payments to contractors made possible by the Working
Capital Fund (para 5.19).
4.15      Procurement for civil works, design and supervision follow the
Government's competitive bidding procedures (under Decree 150), which are the
same as those used by MOPT and other C-overnment entities and are satisfactory
to the Bank.   FNCV has considerable experience in this field and has demon-
strated its capability under the ongoing DRI program (Loan 1352-CO). In
addition, four full time auditors from the Controller General of the Republic
are permanently assigned to FNCV to ensure that accounting practices would
follow Government regulations. The auditing control of FNCV expenditures is
adequate. Satisfactory expenditure records are kept for each specific project
and each contract.
(iii) Maintenance
4.16      The Government's policy is that the maintenance of rural roads would
eventually be the responsibility of the Departments. However, because of the
absence of technical skill, administrative structure and financial resources,
the Departments are presently unable to assume such responsibility. In conse-
quence, FNCV is charged temporarily with the maintenance of its road network,
including roads that would be constructed or rehabilitated under the 1981-1984
program.
4.17      To handle this maintenance activity, FNCV has adopted a "peon
caminero" strategy that employs peasant workers to help maintain rural roads
and, at the same time, provides local employment. The "peon caminero" would
be supported by equipment as required for larger works. FNCV would finance
the contracting of such workers (about US$253 per km per year including hand
tools) through municipal authorities to perform routine maintenance on desig-
nated road sections (on average, 5 km long). This arrangement would make the
eventual transfer of maintenance responsibilities to the Departments an easy
and uncomplicated process. It is expected that, by 1984, some 460 "peon
camineros" would be working to maintain about 2,330 km of rural roads (Table 4.3).
The quality of this work would likely be ensured through the social pressure
from the local communities and controlled periodically by FNCV staff. During
negotiations, FNCV confirmed the implementation of routine maintenance by
"peon caminero".
4.18      Rxisting FNCV equipment is basically devoted to new construction,
rehabilitation and emergency maintenance. Thus, additional equipment, includ-
ing 10% spare parts (Table 4.5) intended only for rehabilitation and the



- 23 -
support of routine maintenance efforts, would be procured. MOPT would main-
tain FNCV's equipment to eliminate the duplication of workshops and to avoid
the buildup of FNCV's facilities that would later be unnecessary (para. 3.31).
To ensure maximum utilization of the new maintenance equipment, FNCV's Central
Office would: (a) retain control of this equipment; (b) assign responsibility
for maintenance programing and control to the Physical Programing Division no
later than June 30, 1981 in order to assign equipment temporarily as needed to
individual regional offices according to maintenance planning; and (c) carry
out, by June 30, 1981, a detailed road inventory of the network to support
planning efforts both in the field of rehabilitation and in maintenance
(para 3.19). These measures would create a mobile, highly utilized mainte-
nance equipment fleet and were agreed during negotiations.
4.19      Because MOPT's warehouses are under reorganization with Bank Assist-
ance (Loan 1471-CO), it is considered unfeasible for the time being for MOPT
to manage FNCV's stock of spare parts; this would be a possibility, however,
after MOPT's reorganization. Existing FNCV storehouse facilities are adequate
to handle the new maintenance equipment without being extended. FNCV has
undertaken a program to scrap 47 obsolete units before December 1981 (Table 4.5).
An additional scrap program of about 52 units, together with the disposal of
at least 75% of obsolete existing spare part stock of the Central Storehouse in
Bogota, should be carried out before September 30, 1982, the scheduled delivery
period for the first batch of the new maintenance equipment. This was confirmed
during negotiations.
D.   Strengthening of FNCV
4.20      FNCV would activate its new organization and method unit (Chart 2)
and adapt its management procedures to deal with the new situation introduced
by the Covernment's decentralization policy and the establishment of a balanced
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance program. FNCV would: (a) initiate
a reorganization of its internal information processing system; (b) strengthen
the decentralization process; and (c) upgrade the technical capability of the
entity.  This was confirmed during negotiations.
(i) Management Information System
4.21      With the help of consultants (para 5.08), FNCV needs to reorganize
its management information system in order to provide the management with more
reliable and comprehensive data to evaluate FNCV's activities and to assist in the
decision-making process. This information would be broken down into physical,
financial and administrative data. The physical data system would allow:
(a) establishing a proper road inventory; (b) establishing staffing and equipment
plans compatible with the work programs; and (c) providing accurate accounts
of quantities of work performed. The financial data system would be the basis
for: (a) verifying the funds received by FNCV; (b) monitoring the expenditures
by introducing an analytical accounting system; and (c) providing rapid
knowledge about bottlenecks in the liquidity position. The administrative and
operational data system would be expanded to:; (a) maintain information on the
capability of the contracting industry; and (b) evaluate FNCV's interral
processing.



- 24 -
(ii) Decentralization and Control
4.22      The implementation of FNCV's new decentralized organization and wider
ranging activities makes it necessary to reaffirm the rules for authority
and responsibility given to various administrative units. For this purpose,
FNCV's overall policy and planning has to be well documented and understood.
Programing and budgeting would be enhanced by the improved data base resulting
from the above activities, and centralized technical, financial and administra-
tive control would be exercised to ensure success of the decentralization
effort. Toward this end, the regional offices would prepare monthly reports on
financial and physical progress of works. Technical inspections would be
carried out by senior engineers and auditors from Bogota on a sample basis
to assist the field engineers and to control works performed. Finally,
improved coordination among FNCV, DNP, and MOPT at the national level, and
among FNCV regional districts, Department authorities, and MOPT districts at
the regional level, would be established through regular meetings.
(iii) Technical Capability
4.23      With the administrative tools described above, FNCV would have to
upgrade its technical staff further to take full advantage of the organization's
potential. FNCV would promote a working group in charge of identifying techni-
cal problems as they occur and providing appropriate solutions, particularly
in the maintenance field. During negotiations, FNCV agreed to the establishment
of such a working group by June 30, 1981.
V. BANK PARTICIPATION
5.01      The working relationship built with FNCV through the implementation
of rural road components of agricultural projects (para 1.26) has provided
the Bank an opportunity to appreciate the strengths and weaknesses of FNCV.
The Bank has reviewed the development prospects for the agricultural and
transport sectors contained in the National Integration Plan (PIN) and agrees
with the need for an expanded feeder road program and for increased attention
to the maintenance problem of rural roads. The proposed project is specifi-
cally focused on rural roads and would provide a framework to address the
needs of the subsector with an overview of FNCV's institutional and financial
requirements. The Bank would contribute to FNCV's 1981-1984 program. Prepa-
ration and supervision of the proposed subsector project would focus on:
(a) criteria and methods for subproject selection and preparation; (b) overall
capacity requirements and institutional strengthening; and (c) long term
policies for decentralization of the maintenance function to the Departments.
The present chapter describes the modus operandi of the proposed subsector
project to serve as a guide for future supervision.



- 25 -
A.   Subsector Project
5.02      The FNCV program and its financing, outlined in paragraphs 4.06 to
4.09, serve as the basis for assessing the Bank's role in FNCV's Rural Roads
Program over the period 1981-1984. An analysis of the financing of FNCV's
1981-1984 Rural Roads Program in Table 4.1 indicates that the proposed sub-
sector project would cover an increasing share of FNCV's road construction and
rehabilitation program (18% in 1981, 37% in 1982, 39% in 1983 and 45% in 1984)
and limited equipment purchases required for maintenance. FNCV's total
1981-1984 program amounts to US$226 million. Of this amount, the component
that would be supported by the Bank is US$63 million or 28%, referred to
hereafter as project expenditures to distinguish them from other expenditures
under FNCV's 1981-1984 program. The specific areas which would be supported
by the proposed subsector project are indicated below:
Estimate of FNCV's Program Expenditures
to be Financed under the Subsector Project 1981-1984
(Constant January 1981 US$ million)
1981        1982        1983        1984          Total
Km   Cost    Km  Cost   Kl  Cost   Km   Cost    Km   Cost
Engineering                 210   0.25   210  0.25   290  0.35   -        -      710   0.85
Construction                 70   2.74   140  5.47   210  8.21  290   11.34   710  27.76
Rehabilitation               70   1.37   140  2.74   210  4.10  290    5.67   710  13.88
Supervision                   -   0.44    -   0.85    -   1.26   -       1.70    -    4.25
Purchase of Main-
tenance Equipment           -      -    -   6.55    -   2.19   -        -       -    8.74
Purchase of Hand Tools        -      -    -   0.20              -      -          -    0.20
Technical Assistance          -   0.11    -    -       -      -    -      -       -    0.11
Base Cost (January 1981)          4.91        16.06        16.11        18.71         55.79
Price Contingencies 1/            0.21         1.76         2.24         3.00          7.21
rotal                          5.12        17.82       18.35         21.71         63.00
1/   Price contingencies:  for domestic prices:  22% in 1981, 21% in 1982,
19% in 1983 and 17% in 1984.
for international prices: 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982,
7% in 1983 and 1984.



- 26 -
5.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$33 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the preceding project expenditures as follows:
Project Cost Estimate
(Constant January 1981 US$ million)
FEC Bank Participation
Project Component                  Local  Foreign  Total   %    US$          %_
I.   Four-Year Construction and
Rehabilitation Program
Engineering              0.47   0.38       0.85   45   0.38         45
Construction            15.27  12.49    27.76   45  12.49            45
Rehabilitation           7.63   6.25    13.88   45   6.25            45
Supervision              2.34   1.91       4.25   45   1.91         45
Sub-Total           25.71  21.03    46.74         21.03
II. Four-Year Maintenance
Program
Purchase of Mainte-
nance Equipment        1.14   7.60       8.74   87   7.60         87
Purchase of Hand Tools  0.11   0.09        0.20   45   0.09         45
Sub-Total            1.25   7.69      8.94         7.69
III. Technical Assistance          0.02   0.09      0.11   87   0.09          87
Base Cost           26.98  28.81    55.79         28.8I
Price Contingency   3.02   4.19       7.21         4.19
Total Project       30.00  33.00    63.00         33.00
B.   Preparation, Evaluation and Selection of Project Components
(i)  Construction and Rehabilitation Subprojects
5.04      The two important concepts to be considered are the individual
subproiects and the contracts for engineering, civil works and supervision
associated with each subproject. The subproject is the unit considered for
purposes of project preselection, evaluation and selection, while final
engineering, construction, and supervision contracts associated with the
subproject are the basis for disbursements. Not all subprojects would be
completed by 1984, the end of the disbursement period, and they would have to
be completed under FNCV programs in subsequent years in accordance with the
schedule defined for each subproject. However, all contracts accepted for
disbursement under the loan would have an initial completion date before
December 31, 1984. The commitment of funds would be restricted to contracts
pertaining to eligible subprojects. Commitments would be monitored closely



- 27 -
to ensure adequate progress in disbursement. It is expected that FNCV would
process subprojects well in excess of what would be strictly necessary to meet
the commitment and disbursement estimates. Since most rural road construction
contracts cover only one year, the proposed system would provide ample flexi-
bility to adjust the progression of commitment and disbursements.
5.05      Preselection, evaluation, and final selection of subprojects would
follow the procedures outlined in FNCV's "Manual for Selection of Rural Roads"
(para 4.10). Each subproject would have to be technically sound and economic-
ally justified, with an ERR of at least 11%. FNCV has demonstrated the
capacity to carry out economic analyses in line with the agreed Manual. FNCV
would prepare, for each subproject, a report presenting the key technical,
design, cost and economic parameters according to the Manual. The reports
wotld be sent to the Bank and would include the rejected subprojects. These
reports would establish the eligibility of individual subprojects and would
allow review and eventual improvement of the preselection methodology.
5.06      Bank review would take place at two levels.  First the Bank would
review and possibly approve FNCV's proposal to include a given subproject
or group thereof in the Bank-financed part of its program. After receiving
Bank approval, FNCV would declare the subproject eligible for Bank financing.
Second, the Bank would selectively review procurement actions for the imple-
me:atation of eligible subprojects.  Award decisions for contracts worth less
than US$700,000 would not be subject to prior review by the Bank. Should the
tender price surpass, by more than 20%, the cost estimates used to assess the
eligibility of a given subproject, FNCV would review the qualification of the
subproject and explore possible reduction in design standards in order to
ensure that the subproject still meets the eligibility requirements. The
updated evaluation would be forwarded to the Bank inI the case of contracts
worth US$700,000 or more and would be kept available by FNCV for review in the
case of smaller contracts. The proposed arrangemenlts would focus Bank super-
vision on subproject selection while ensuring selective but adequate coverage
on engineering, procurement and contract administration, which are areas in
which FNCV has a record of good performance. The prior review of eligibility
of subprojects would also allow monitoring of the buildup of the portfolio of
subprojects for Bank financing. The requirement fo-r subproject eligibility
and the related documentation were reviewed and confirmed at the time of
negotiations.
(ii) Maintenance and Equipment Purchases
5.07      Equipment requirements during the 1981-1984 period have been deter-
mined on the basis of a preliminary analysis of annual volume of maintenance
works. The proposed Bank loan would finance equipment purchases in two
batches, including 10% spare parts (Table 4.5). The list of equipment was
reviewed and confirmed at the time of negotiations. Equipment acquisition
would be coordinated with a scrapping program for both obsolete equipment
(Table 3.5) and spare parts. The repair of FNCV's equipment would be performed
by MOPT (para 3.31). Equipment purchased under the loan would be used exclu-
sively for maintenance and rehabilitation needs. The efficient utilization of
this equipment would be planned from FNCV headquarters in Bogota. Furthermore,
an FNCV-financed routine maintenance policy involving the hiring of "peon



- 28 -
camineros" (para 4.17) by municipalities would be implemented. The Bank would
support this routine maintenance policy by financing the supply of hand tools.
(iii) Technical Assistance
5.08      The Bank would support the strengthening of FNCV overall administra-
tive structure, particularly the management information system (para 4.21),
by financing limited technical assistance, i.e., one Highway Engineer Manager
and one Public Administration specialist for about 10 man-months (at about
US$10,000 per man-month). This assistance, to be started no later than
January 1, 1982, is intended to streamline administrative procedures deemed
particularly essential in FNCV's new decentralized organization. The terms of
reference for the consulting services were reviewed and agreed during appraisal
(Annex 2) and confirmed during negotiations.
C.   Procurement
5.09      Equipment amounting to about US$8.75 million (January 1981) would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement. The procurement program for equipment indicating
lot size and estimated cost would be subject to prior approval by the Bank.
A draft program for the first batch of purchase was reviewed and agreed at
the time of negotiations. Similar items would be grouped for bidding purpose.
Contracts for imported equipment, vehicles and parts with an estimated cost
below US$50,000 equivalent within an overall of US$500,000 would be procured
under competitive local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
5.10      Because of their small size and limited scope, the rural road
construction or rehabilitation contracts would not interest companies not
already operating in Colombia or even those not already established in the
specific region where the subproject is located (para 3.32). Civil works,
engineering, supervision and hand tools would be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. This would follow the
arrangements being used successfully for the road component of the ongoing DRI
Project (para 1.26). Given the limited scope of technical assistance services,
this component would be contracted directly by FNCV with a firm or with
individuals acceptable to the Bank.
5.11      Civil works contractors, or consulting firms for studies or super-
vision, should be listed in FNCV's official file of preselected companies or
individuals. Procedures for civil works procurement and the hiring of consult-
ing services for engineering or supervision would follow procurement procedures
as defined in Decree 150, whose provisions are compatible with Bank requirements
for local competitive bidding. Local advertising is appropriate for the
procurement of these services.



- 29 -
5.12      The review and approval of contract award decision would distinguish
between small and medium size contracts. For all civil work contracts related
to the implementation of eligible subprojects, FNCV would:
-    prepare tender documents;
-    issue tender invitations;
-    open tender; and
-    prepare tender evaluations.
(a)  In the case of contracts worth less than US$700,000 equivalent, at
the date of the bid opening, FNCV would, without Bank involvement:
-    award contracts;
-    legalize contracts; and
-    issue notice to proceed together with payment of an advance to
contractors.
The tender evaluation report with the justification for the award
decision would be kept in FNCV's offices available to review.
(b) In the case of contracts worth US$700,000 equivalent or more
(corresponding to about 15 km or more of betterment), at the
time of bid opening, FNCV would seek the Bank's agreement
before finalizing the contract and would, for this purpose,
send to the Bank:
-    the tender evaluation report, indicating the award decision and
its justification; and
-    the proposed contract.
The Bank would review this information and, if satisfied, indicate no objection
to t:he contract award. Contracts worth US$700,000 or more would account for
about 50% of the civil works component and 10% of the number of contracts for
civ:il works.
5.13      If the information concerning procurement of civil works were found
unsatisfactory, the Bank would request clarification. The Bank would have
the right to reject a contract and request new tendering if agreed tender
procedures were not followed. If the Bank should reasonably determine, after
consultation with the Borrower, that the execution of an eligible subproject
was proceeding on the basis of a contract inconsistent with the procurement
procedures agreed under the loan, the Bank might cancel from the loan the
amount corresponding to its scheduled participation in such contract.



- 30 -
5.14      Taking into consideration the limited capacity of Colombian con-
tractors in parts of the country, some FNCV force account work would be
necessary. However, to avoid an unwarranted buildup of FNCV's force account
construction and rehabilitation capabilities, restrictions should be estab-
lished on the extent to which Bank funds would be used to reimburse such work.
Construction and rehabilitation should be executed by force account only if
no acceptable bid were received for a project. In addition, no more than
US$3 million of the construction and rehabilitation component of the loan
should be used for force account work. Of this, no more than US$1 million
should be used for construction. For force account work, the Bank would
consider as the base cost of a project the lower figure of the lowest bid
received and the FNCV official estimate at the time of the bid opening.
Calculations for Bank reimbursements would be based on only 70% of the total
cost (base cost plus inflation adjustment) of force account construction work.
This methodology reflects both a disincentive for force account work and the
removal of profits and overheads normally included in contractors' prices.
Consultants satisfactory to the Bank should verify force account construction
and rehabilitation work before reimbursements are made. The above was confirmed
during negotiations.
D.  Disbursement
5.15      Disbursement for various types of expenditures would be made against
the documentation given below on the following basis:
-    45% of total expenditures for civil works, studies, supervision,
and supply of hand tools;
-    100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment; and
-    87% of total expenditures for technical assistance.
The above percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange components of
the various project elements.
5.16      The documentation to be presented consists of:
(i) Normal documentation. This would be required for imported equipment
and technical assistance.
(ii)  Statement of expenditures.  The large number of small construction
and rehabilitation jobs that would be contracted under the proposed
loan, as well as the procurement of hand tools and engineering
services, make it prudent to streamline normal Bank procedures to
reduce the volume of documentation in order to allow Bank supervi-
sion resources to be used more effectively. To facilitate the
review and verification of FNCV expenditures, the Bank would receive
a general statement of monthly expenditures from the agency, and
would reimburse directly on the basis of the supplied statement.
The statements would be audited semi-annually by the chief auditor
from the Controller General of the Republic working in FNCV.



- 31 -
5.17      Three separate indicators would be monitored to follow the progress
of the project:
(i)  the total value of the portfolio of eligible subprojects which
would quickly build up and amount to 120% of the project value
by the end of 1983;
(ii) commitments, i.e., the value of contracts awarded for the
implementation of eligible subprojects; and, finally
(iii) project expenditures which are the basis for disbursement;
disbursement would lag behind project expenditures by up to
three months.
The implementation of Bank-financed subprojects would start by mid-1981 and
progress as shown below. These targets were reviewed and confirmed at the
tiTr.e of negotiations.
Bank-Financed Share of Project Expenditures
(US$ million)
Total
1981      1982      1983       1984      1981-1984
Civril Works                   2.21       4.60      7.09      10.18        24.08
Hand Tools                        -       0.09         -          -         0.09
Equipment                         -       6.44      2.3C        -           8.74
Technical Assistance           0.09        -         -          -           0.09
Project Expenditures
('disbursement basis)        2.30      11.13      9.39      10.18        33.00
Cumulative Value of Port-
folio of Eligible Sub-
projects by year-end
(Bank share)                10.00      24.00    36.00       40.00
Cunulative Value of
Signed Commitment for
Contracts (Bank Share)       8.00      17.00    26.00       33.00
Cumulative Project
Expenditure                  2.30      13.43    22.82       33.00
The disbursements would progress as follows, taking into account the advances to
the Working Capital Fund and allowing about three months for processing applications.
Estimated Progress of Disbursement for Project Loan
(US$ million)
1981    1982      1983      1984      1985
Gross Disbursements                    0.8      11.5       9.1       9.2      2.4
TWorking Capital Fund Advance          1.35      0.0       0.0       0.0     -1.3.
Net Disbursements                      2.15    11.5        9.1       9.2       1.05
Accumulated Disbursements              2.15    13.65    22.75    31.95    33.0



- 32 -
5.18      In order to ensure the prompt initiation of the project, FNCV has
prepared the evaluation of subprojects for which contracts would be let in
1981.
E.   Working Capital Fund
5.19      In the past, the execution of FNCV's annual programs has been
impaired by late availability of funds. About 50% of budgeted funds are
currently made available during the first nine months of the year and the
remaining 50% made available only in the last three months. This practice,
combined with unduly slow proceduTes for vetting and liquidation of payments
to contractors, has led to shortfalls in work carried out against works
planned. An aggravating factor for externally financed projects is the fact
that FNCV's budget provides only for the local components. While awaiting
disbursements which can take several months, FNCV has had to advance out of
its own funds the externally financed part of the cost. The above-mentioned
factors point to a serious liquidity problem which has had a particularly
disruptive impact on projects relying on small contractors who do not have
the financial strength to sustain long delays in payments. Numerous small
contractors (about 200) would be engaged in the implementation of the project.
The prompt availability of funds is therefore essential for the success of the
proposed project. The project would consequently provide for the establishment
of a Working Capital Fund supplied by advances to cover payments to contractors,
while reimbursement applications are being processed.
5.20      Project funds would be managed by FNCV through a Working Capital
Fund established as a separate bank account. The Fund would be utilized
exclusively for project expenditure related to construction and rehabilitation
work, including contracts for engineering civil works and supervision. The
inflow of the project would consist of counterpart contributions (55%) and the
proceeds of the Bank loan (45%). The Fund would start up with an initial
amount of US$3.0 million equivalent estimated to cover the needs during the
first four to six months of the project. FNCV's initial contribution would be
US$1,650,000 equivalent. The Bank-s contribution would be disbursed as follows:
(a) the first Bank disbursement of US$1,350,000 equivalent for a startup
would be made upon receipt of adequate documentation indicating that:
(i) the Fund had been established; and (ii) the Government had
completed all actions necessary to contribute its corresponding
share (US$1,650,000 equivalent). The Government would have 30 days
to fulfill this commitment; in the meantime, FNCV would finance
works (including the Government-s share) with the Bank's advance;
(b) subsequent releases of Bank funds, based on certified statements
of expenditures, would be conditioned upon: (i) the Government
having fulfilled its previous payment commitments to the Working
Capital Fund, and (ii) the Government's commitment to contribute
its corresponding share, i.e., 55% of total expenditures within 30
days of the Bank's subsequent releases; and
(c) once disbursements for construction and rehabilitation reach
US$21 million, i.e., 88% of the corresponding allocation under the
loan, the Bank's disbursement percentage for project expenditures
paid out of the Fund would be reduced from 45% to 25% to recoup
the initial startup contribution.



- 33 -
5.21       As disbursements are made from the Fund, FNCV would submit periodic
reimbursement requests to the Government and to the Bank. It would be a
condition for loan disbursement for the civil works component that a Working
Capital Fund, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, had been
established and that the Government had completed all actions necessary to
contribute its initial obligation to the Fund (US$1,650,000). In addition,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the procedures, terms and
conditions of the operation of the Working Capital Fund would not be changed
or waived without prior Bank approval and that by February 28 and August 31 of
each year, FNCV would agree with the Government and the Bank on the funding
requirements for the next six months. However, at the request of the borrower,
the Government or the Bank, policies and procedures of the Working Capital
Fund would be reviewed to adjust its operation and/or size to the needs of the
project.
F.   Monitoring
5.22       Semi-annual consultations would be held in January and September of
every year to discuss FNCV's overall program and budget and to review the
progress of the loan. Monitoring and supervision of the proposed subsector
project would focus on the following four areas:
(a)  The evolution of FNCV's program and its compatibility with
the Government's long term strategy reported annually in
advance of the September consultation;
(b)  The progress made in pursuing a balanced construction, rehabi-
litation and maintenance policy;
(c)  The implementation of eligible subprojects.  In preparation for
the September consultation, FNCV would prepare:
(i)  a complete file and economic studies for all eligible sub-
projects to be carried out the following year; and
(ii) an assessment of overall progress and common problems;
in particular, the monitoring of key parameters used
in the economic evaluation of previous roads.
(d)  The commitment and disbursement of loan f'unds.  FNCV would:
(i)  prepare monthly expenditure statements;
(ii) send applications for advances to the Working Fund when
required and permitted by the Working Fund mechanism;
(iii)  send monthly Working Fund statements;
(iv) send quarterly reports with summaries of expenditures and
physical progress on all eligible subprojects; and
(v)  send a semi-annual review and update of a commitment schedule
in which existing and project'ed contract commitments are set
forth in order to achieve target disbursements as indicated
in paragraph 5.17.



- 34 -
The preceding monitoring arrangements were discussed and confirmed during
negotiations.
5.23      The Bank would take the following measures to ensure proper execution
of the project:
(a)  review and approve ex ante the eligibility of subprojects;
(b)  review and approve ex post a sample of about 10% of the
final engineering and tender documents for subprojects;
(c)  review ex ante award decisions worth US$700,000 or more and
review ex post a sample of about 10% of contract awards worth
less than US$700,000; and
(d)  review quarterly progress reports and other pertinent information,
in particular the building of the portfolio and the progress of
commitments and disbursements.
5.24      FNCV would keep records of all tenders and contractual documents and
official decisions pertaining to each eligible subproject. FNCV would prepare
quarterly reports of approved contracts for each subproject, showing total ex-
penditures to date, monthly payments and basic administrative data. At the
end of the implementation of the subsector project, FNCV would prepare a project
completion report. The Bank would reserve the right to inspect and review the
documentation maintained by FNCV and the right to be sent specific portions of
the detailed records. This arrangement was confirmed during negotiations.
G.   Economic Justification of the Subsector Project
5.25      Agricultural productivity cannot increase significantly where access
roads are impassable or non-existent, where transport costs are high, and
where ability_to get to the markets is uncertain. Under these conditions,
there are neither the means nor the incentives to produce a surplus. The
proposed project is geared to help in solving these problems which, despite
past efforts, still exist. The project would help to integrate micro-regional
transport networks and to correct imbalances in the road infrastructure,
thereby providing savings to existing traffic as well as improved access for
the rural population. The project would also help to make important advances
toward improved maintenance of rural roads. Improved accessibility increases
rural contact with services provided by Government agencies and private
sources, including extension services, medical and veterinary coverage,
marketing cooperatives, credit agencies, and equipment suppliers.
5.26      A rate of return has not been calculated for the proposed project
because the subprojects to be included in the program have not yet been
identified. However, the roads to be financed under the program would have
to yield a minimum economic rate of return of 11%. The sample of eight roads
already prepared shows an average economic rate of return of 37%. This is
representative of the roads under the 1981-1984 program and, more specifically,
of the subprojects to be financed by the proposed Bank loan. The two-stage
process for selection of subprojects would ensure that priority subprojects
are addressed first with due consideration to the need to achieve regional
balance among the various Departments. The arrangement for reevaluating
subprojects in cases when the tender price surpasses the initial cost estimates
by more than 20% (para 5.06) provides an adequate guarantee against the risk of
overdesigned or unjustified projects.



- 35 -
5.27      Road maintenance costs have been included in the economic evaluation
of subprojects. No specific evaluation of maintenance as such has been carried
out for lack of proper road inventory.  However, experience from similar programs
in Colombia (Seventh Highway Project, 1977) and other Aindean countries (Ecuador,
Sixth Highway Project (1980)) suggests that the proposed measures to initiate
adequate maintenance on FNCV's network would have a ret:urn well above 40%.
5.28     Benefits of the proposed project are expected to accrue mostly
to farmers in the areas of influence of the roads built, or to consumers,
since the transport industry in Colombia is competitive. The country as
a whole would benefit from an improved rural well-beinlg.
H.   Assessment of Risks
5.29      FNCV's budget estimates for its 1981-1984 program have been carefully
reviewed and are considered conservative. The estimates do not reflect a
risirg trend in gasoline price, which would increase the resources available to
FNCV. The amount of the loan has been set prudently below the potential
disbuirsement basis.  There is no serious risk that FNCV-s program would not
provide a sufficient basis to commit and disburse the loan as scheduled. The
wide range of subprojects and the flexibility afforded in the commitment of
loan funds, together with the Working Capital Fund mechanism, should prevent
a situation wherein the loan would be tied to a relatively small number of
large subprojects stretching over an extended completion period.
5.30      The efficient execution of the project rests on the capacity of
FNCV, whose ongoing performance under the DRI Project (Loan 1352-CO) is
satisfactory. Considering the needs of the country in the field of rural road
conslruction, rehabilitation and maintenance, it is unlikely that FNCV would
run out of projects with a satisfactory rate of return.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
FNCV on the following:
(a)  FNCV to inform the Bank by June 30, 1982 about its staffing policies
and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment (para 3.17);
(b)  FNCV's inventory of the status of its network to be completed by
November 30, 1981 and to be updated annually by June 30 of each
subsequent year (paras 3.19 and 4.18);
(c)  MOPT to repair FNCV's equipment in MOPT-s workshops (para  3.31);
(d)  FNCV to follow a policy to achieve a balance between the new
construction, rehabilitation, and routine maintenance (para 4.06);
(e)  the "peon caminero" routine maintenance concept to be implemented
(para 4.17);



- 36 -
(f) control of maintenance and rehabilitation equipment under the loan
to be retained by FNCV's headquarters in Bogota (para 4.18);
(g) maintenance planning responsibilities to be assigned within the
Physical Programing Division of FNCV no later than June 30, 1981
(para 4.18);
(h) an equipment and spare parts scrapping program to rid FNCV of
47 units of equipment by December 30, 1981 and 52 units by
September 30, 1982 (para 4.19);
(i)  FNCV to reorganize its internal information processing system,
strengthen its decentralization process and upgrade its technical
capability (para 4.20);
(j) a working group to be established by June 30, 1981 to improve
FNCV's technical operation (para 4.23);
(k) requirement for subproject eligibility and the related documen-
tation (para 5.06);
(1) list of equipment (paras 5.07 and 5.09);
(m)  FNCV to employ, no later than January 1, 1982, consultants for
the technical assistance, and terms and conditions of employment
to be satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.08);
(n) limitations on force account work (para 5.14);
(o) targets for implementation of Bank-financed subprojects (para 5.17);
(p) procedures for the Working Capital Fund not to be changed or waived
without prior Bank approval (para 5.21);
(q) the nature and timing of the semi-annual discussions and updating
of FNCV budget estimates (para 5.22); and
(r) maintenance of records (para 5.24).
6.02      Establishment of a Working Capital Fund would be a condition for
disbursement under the civil works component of the loan (para 5.21).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan to FNCV of US$33.0 million equivalent; the terms would be 17 years
including a four-year grace period.
March 9, 1981



COLOMBIA
RURUAL ROADS PROJECT
National and International Passenger and Freight Transport
International Freight
National Freight Transport                    Transport                National Passenger Transport             International
Ton/km (millions)                    Ton (thousands)                   Pass/km (millions)                 Passenger
Coastal                                                                                               Transport
Year   Road    Rail   River  Shipping  Air   Sub-total  Sea(l)  Air   Sub-total Road                Rail  River  Air    Sub-total  Pass(thousan
1970 10,285    1,473   1,545       786    85       13,874     2,599   20        2,619   7,637    249         1   2,067       9,954        467
1971 10,879    1,150   1,319       843    79       14,270     2,709   25        2,734   8,055       281      7   1,953      10,296        524
1972 11,726    1,198   1,451   2,116   121         16,612     2,652   28        2,680   8,114       398      4   2,273      10,789       596
1973 12,559    1,331   2,003   2,482   124         18,499     3,068   31        3,099   9,223    427         4   2,539      12,195        685
1974 13,316    1,329   2,585   3,240   152         20,622     3,227   46        3,273   9,735    482         4   2,702      12,923        815
1975 13,824    1,139   2,400   2,398   144         19,905     2,864   48        2,912  10,179       523      4   2,870      13,576        891
1976 14,461    1,159   1,609   2,535   138         19,902     2,696   51        2,747  10,199       511      5   3,226      13,941        966
1977 15,158    1,215   1,820   2,650   146         20,899     3,500   71         3,571  10,709Q    39        4   1-664      149769      l;041
197% 16,507    1,232   1,402   2,195   155         21,491     3,808   93        3,900  11,244       342      4   4,213      15,803      1,140
1979 17,332    1,105   1,400   2,300   n/a                    4,689  120        4,809  11,807       322      4    n/a                   1,260
* Estimate
(1)  Excludes freight handled in private ports.
Source: MOPT
February 1981



COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Public Sector Investments in Transport (1972-1978)
(millions of current Col$)
Inland
Year          Roads 1/   (%)        Rail       (%)      Water       (%)     Airports       (%)      Sea-ports      (%)      Total    (M)
1972       2,576.7    (81.7)    289.4    ( 9.1)         65.6    (2.1)         172.5    ( 5.5)          50.9      (1.6)    3,155.1  (100)
1973       2,746.8    (81.1)    299.2    ( 8.8)          78.7    (2.3)        211.0    ( 6.2)          49.5      (1.5)    3,385.1  (100)
1974        3,363.2    (73.6)    343.8    ( 7.5)    123.9    (2.7)            660.1    (14.5)          77.0      (1.7)    4,568.0  (100)
1975       3,335.7    (68.9)    540.5    (11.2)        162.7    (3.4)         651.9    (13.5)         153.8      (3.2)    4,844.6  (100)
1976       4,752.2    (80.1)    465.2    ( 7.8)    277.4    (4.7)             169.1    ( 2.8)         271.8      (4.6)    5,935.7  (100)
1977       6,016.3    (83.2)    3B2.3    ( 5.3)    231.4    (3.2)             433.6    ( 8.0)         169.7      (2.3)     7,233.2  (100)
1978       6,439.7    (83.1)    271.7    ( 3.5)    216.8    (2.8)             506.0    ( 6.5)         315.1      (4.1)     7,749.4  (100)
1979       9,482.4    (78.2)       79.9    ( 0.6)    420.0    (3.5)         1,531.3    (12.6)         619.7      (5.1)   12,133.4  (100)
1/ Includes national highways, departmental and rural roads.
Source: DNP and MOPT
September 1980



_ 39 -                                   TABLE 1.3
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
World Bank Group Involvement in Colombian Transport
Highways
Loan   43-CO        1951       US$  16.50         First Highway Project
Loan   84-CO        1953       US$  14.35         Second Highway Project
Loan  144-CO        1956       US$  16.50         Third Highway Project
Credit 05-CO)       1961       US$  19.50)        Fourth highway Project
Loan  550-CO        1968       US$  17.20         Fifth Highway Project
Loan  680-CO        1970       US$  32.00         Sixl:h Highway Project
Loan 1471-CO         1977      US$  90.00         Seventh Highway Project
US$ 225.55
Rural Roads Components of Agriculture Projects
Loan  739-CO        1971       US$   3.80         Caqueta I  Project
Loan  849-CO        1972       US$   1.60         Second Atlantico Project
Loan 1118-CO         1975      US$   5.90         Caqueta II  Project
Loan 1163-CO        1975       US$   5.10         C6rdoba II  Project
Loan 1352-CO        1976       US$   3.50         Int(egrated Rural Dev. Project
US$  19.90
Railways
Loan   68-CO        1952       US$  25.00         First Railway Project
Loan  119-CO         1955      US$  15.90         Second Railway Project
Loan  267-CO        1960       US$   5.40         Third Railway Project
Loan  343-CO         1963      US$  30.00         Fourth Railway Project
Loan  551-CO         1968      US$  18.30         Fifth Railway Project
Loan  926-CO         1973      US$  25.00         Sixth Railway Project
US$ 119.60
Aviation
Loan 1624-CO         1978      US$  61.00         Domestic Aviation Project
Pipelines
IFC-R76-66          1976       US$  13.00         Loan to PROMIGAS, S.A.
US$   2.00        Equity in PROMIGAS, S.A.
US$  15.00
TOTAL                          US$ 441.05
Source: IBRD, Transport Sector Survey, 1979
September 1980



COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Colombian Road Network (1979)
(km)
Primary             Secondary and Rural Roads              Total
Paved   Unpaved   Total    Paved   Unpaved   Total    Paved   Unpaved   Total
National               7,900    2,600   10,500       -      12,500   12,500    7,900    15,100  23,000
DepartmentaLl          -        -         -       1,000   30,000   31,000    1,000    30,000  31,000
FNCVI/                           -         -        -       11,200   11,200      -        11,200  11,200
Private!-               -        -         -        -        2,000    2,000      -         2,000   2,000
Total                 7,900    2,600   10,500   1,000    55,700   56,700    8,900    58,300  67,200
1/ Estimated length
Source: MOPT, FNCV
September 1980
.  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
National Highwa-  Fund Reenue-   (1970-1979)
1970              1971             1972              1973             1974              1975              1976             1977              1978              1979
G..ol.ne  crT                              767,382            932,700        1,200,400        1,l88,927         1,207,394        1,654,494         2,674,785         3,351,971         4,708,407        8,095,27?
Govern,ent contribution                    313,641           280,249           101,870            94,759           55,013           684,251          178,017           920,786           629,293        1,915,701
I8RD Projects                               53,739           200,686           163,828            93,958           22,426            19,996               230            -                 -                 3,276
IDB Projects                                60,970           131,841           179,963           143,601          128,737            23,657           35,526            38,364           188,646            23,171
FONADE  -ontracts                            -                  -                1,303            16,292           28,317            29,136           15,602             -                 -                 -
US Government donation
for Inter-American Highway                  -                -                 -                  ,3830             253            -                 3,014             -                 -                _
Owo Resources                               47,737            49,800            98,795            61,068-          78,229           111,848          117,845           161,442          182,883           216,935
Previous Balance
carry-over                                125,140            45,886             -              276,325           266,459           43,583             -                25,284           26,517           48,042
Dutch Gnver-nent credit                       -                 -                -                 _                -                 -              111,642
Sub-Total                              1,368,605         1,641,162        1,746,159         1,886,510         1,786,828        2,566,965         3,076,661        4,497,847         5,735,796        10,302,417
Unappropriated Revenues 1/                 186,044           315,643          400,139           295,129           888,759          158,103           610,568           197 434           883,369           (33.045)
TOTAL                                  1,554,653         1,956,805         2,146,298        2,181,639         2,675,587        2,725,068         3,687,229         4,695,281        6,119,115        10,269,372
Nati o.a 1 Highwy FPnd Expenditure8 (1970-1979)
(Tho....od of  it- UMl179
19791.            1971             1972              1973              1974             1975              1976              19577            1978              1979
Stodi-e end Techei-al
lerricco                                   26,759            27,301            27,921           55,837            85,123           60,508           119,261            93,951            49,809           68,393
Bridge6                                     67,062            86,475            72,850            8b,844           86,124           132,688          100,841            85,166            97,265           183,033
Trunk Highways
(North-So-th)                             461,577           452,101           500,724          486,828           482,047          410,160           696,871           899.611           708,554          850,603
TC,-k lcigl5ay
(9a-t-w-st)                               132,236           187,630           214,446          288,018           367,134          368,829           379,506           483,661        1,024,510         1,031,619
Other High-ay6                             107,608            103,273          131,953           153,646          196,500           233,148          164,515           326,552           590,445           660,049
Access to citlso                            21,052             47,992           57,982            57,936          107,868            23,918            53,232          252,645           269,476           265,564
P-ian  P-rgram-                            133,023            220,526          277.295           178,680          107,782           223,348          414,182           245,622           416,360           581,569
Hydreolir Works                             42,119             44,740           6,59S2            78,671          123,868           162,732          277,416           231,360           216,816           419,905
Irhabtliteti.o                               -                  -                                                   -                 -                92,792          716,938           383,980           958,791
Highway Meiot-oa-cr                        425,788            515,210          561,354           53P,984          780,2Z5           871,887          966,112         1,352,351         2,354,794         3,935,009
Other Epe-ditur                             13,930             62,865           32,li7             S129          _56,246             39,564           249,14i         156_689             73 -1_ 433,126
Sub-Total                             1,431,153         1,788,114         1,942,394         1,931,173        2,492,925        2,526, 782        3,513,869         4,344,546        6,1b5,442         9,08/,751
Coott-ihbttos to Nati-1ol
Feeder Roads Food                         123,50            168691            104,104           249,466          18262             198286         1735360.35                            433.673           881,621
TOTAL                                1,554,653         1,956,805         1,146,298        Z,1&1,339         2,675,587        2,725,068         3,687,229         4,695,281        6,619,115        10,269,372
1/   Difference between appropriated rovevn-e   nod actual cope-ditore- norm6lly financed with sobuequ-ot year's budgetary appropriatio-. 
Soure.: MOPT
Septerdber 1980



COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Evolution and Composition of Regular Gasoline Prices (1971-1979)
(Col$ per gallon)
Refinery                   Taxes                          Transportation           Distribution
Price       Highway      Sales     Departmental              and              Wholesale   Retail    Price
Fund                                         Handling
June       1971      1.31          1.44        0.16          0.04                 0.13                0.16       0.18        3.42
January    1975      1.31          1.44        0.16          0.04                 0.13                0.21       0.18        3.47
January    1976      1.77          1.96        0.28          0.04                 0.48                0.32       0.30        5.15
January    1977      3.03          3.39        0.60          0.04                 2.06                0.46       0.42       10.00
January    1978     3.46           3.88        0.73          0.04                 2.82                0.50       0.57       12.00
October    1978     5.06           5.69        0.92          0.04                 3.04                0.60       0.65       16.00
March      1979      5.06          5.69        1.30          0.04                 6.41                0.75       0.75       20.00
July       1979     5.06           5.69        1.84          0.04                11.65                0.85       0.87       26.00
May        1980     8.07           9.10        2.48          0.04                12.05                0.98       1.28       34.00
October    1980    11.00          12.42        2.87          0.04                14.97                1.16       1.54       44.00
Source: MOPT, Planning Office
December 1980



- 43                                   TABLE 3.1
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
FNCV's Road Construction (1961-1979)
Roads Started by
Roads Built   others and finished
FNCV              by FNCV
(km)                (km)
Departamentos - Antioquia                   1,265                463
Atlantico                    148                 82
Bolivar                      122                151
Boyaca                       900                495
Caldas                       456                107
Cauca                        386                576
tesar                        127                 13
Cordoba                      280                177
Cundinamarca                 566                 98
Choco                         28                 65
Guajira                      206                 83
Huila                        400                107
Magdalena                     54                  73
Meta                         606                440
Narifio                       78                500
Norte de Santander             9                195
Quindio                       66                 66
Risaralda                    328                 70
Santander                    576                500
Sucre                        215                 21
Tolima                       523                232
Valle                        157                305
I[ntendencias -  Arauca                         4                 -
Caqueta                      209                518
Casanare                      77                 -
Putumayo                      40
San Andres                    -                  -
Comisar{as -    Amazonas                       36                 -
Guarania                      20                 -
Guaviare                       8                 -
Vaupes                         5
Vichada                       67                 -
T o  t  a                                   7,962              5,337
Source:    FNCV
September 1980



- 44 -                               TABLE 3.2
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
FNCV Road Construction (1975-1979)
(kmn)
Drainage                  Equivalent
Survey   Earthworks   Works       Gravelling    Length  1/
1975      1,007        581       516           510           553
1976      1,725      1,126       795           644           948
1977        766        812       631           723           767
1978        554        534       526           441           504
1979        486        978       748           700           871
1/ Assuming that the equivalent length of road construction for
1 km of earthworks, drainage works and gravelling equals 0.6 km,
0.1 km and 0.3 km respectively.
Source: FNCV
September 1980



- 45 -                          TABLE 3.3
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Small Contracting Industry Characteristics
(1) Financial   Capability                                                     Total
Number of      Legal Range of          Average Value   Annual Capability 21
Class       Contractors   Contract Value            of Contract 1/  (US$ million)
(June 1980)   (million Col $ 1978)   (US$ 1980)             (1980)
No.    %
I         323    30                 5                250.000              81
II         295    28             2 - 5                 90.000              27
III         145    14             0 - 2                 75.000              11
IV         300    28             0 - 0.3                7.000               2
1063   100                                                     121
(2) Equipment   Capability  /Renewal
Class       Buldozer        Grader       Loader       T'ip Truck       Value US$
J.           1              1            1              6             300.000
1                                          4             150.000
II-[            1                                          2            100.000
IV     Concrete mixing plant only                                        5.000
Average (excluding Class IV)                                             200.000
11
Information obtained from 105 contracts managed by FNCV in 1979.
2/
This capability is shared equally by FNCV and the Departments. About 5%
is used by the private sector.
3/
Additional equipment must be rented.
Source: FNCV and Mission Estimates
September 1980



- 46 -                                  TABLE 3.4
page 1
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
FNCV's Budget Implementation (1971-1979)
(in constant 1971 Col$ million)
Approved         Received          Executed
Budget           Budget            Budget
1971                  503.6              n/a              296.1
1972                  701.1              n/a              359.0
1973                  578.4              n/a              266.7
1974                  329.3              n/a              165.6
1975                  233.8            174.6              142.1
1976                  247.0            166.2              120.3
1977                  325.7            213.9              160.6
1978                  463.2            253.0              186.3
1979                  576.2            396.2              240.7
Source: FNCV
September 1980



- 47 -                               TABLE 3.4
page 2
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
FNCV's Budget Implementation (1971-1979)
(in cur-rent Col$ million arnd US$ million)
(1)        (2)          (2).(l)           ~~~     ~     ~~~~(3)  (3) .(2)
Allocated Budget         Received Budget I,              Executed Budget
Col$      (US$)       C(%)M)                           Col$      (US)      ()
1971         503.6         (25.0)     n/a                             296.1       (16.8)
1972          773.3        (35.0)     n/a                             396.4      (18.0)
1973          749.7        (31.4)     n/a                             345,6      (14.5)
1974          589.4        (21.8)     n/a                             296.9      (11.0)
1975         505.7         (16.2)     377.7    (12.1)    74.7         307.6      ( 9.8)   81.4
1976          649.3        (18.5)     436.8    (12.5)    67.3         315.4      ( 9.0)   72.2
1977        1022.4         (27.6)     671.6    (18.2)    65.7         504.1      (13.6)   75.1
1978        1730.1         (43.6)     945.0    (23.8)    54.6         695.9      (17.6)   73.6
1979        2766.7         (64.0)    1909.5    (44.4)    69.0        1159.8      (27.0)   6Q.7
1/   It is estimated that about 50% of these funds are received by FNCV in the last
quarter of each year.
Source:   FNCV
September 1980



COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
FNCV's Equipment Fleet as of Sept. 1980
Age (YearS)            27.5                   17.5              12.5              7.5               2.5             Total
Conditiol 1/       G   B   R              G   B   R          G   B   R        G   B   R         G   B   R         G   B   R
Dumptruck          1   6   0              5   6   1          2   0   1       52  13  29       233   0   6       293  25   37
Loader             0   1   1              0   0   4          2   0   0        8   1   8         6   0   0        14   2   13
Bulldozer          1   7   5             15  14  23          0   1   3        7   1   4        14   0   0        37  23   35
Agr. Tractor       0   0   0              0   0   0          0   0   0       14   0   3         0   0   0        14   0    3
Grader            0   2   0              0   1   1          1   1   0       11   0   7        34   0   0        46   4    8
Compactor          0   00                 0   0   0          0   0   0       16   0   3         0   0   0        16   0    3
Compressor         0   2   0              2   1   1          3   1   4        2   0   0         0   0   0         7   4    5
2  18   6            22  22  30          8   3   8      110  15  54       285   0   6       427  58  104
Total as of         26                     74                 19              179               291               589
Sept. 1980
1981 Scrapping        18                     20                  5                4                 0                47
1982 Scrapping         8                     35                  5                4                 -                52
Total Scrapping    26                      55                 10                8                 0                99
1) G= Good             B= Bad         R= Under repair
Source:   FNCV
September 1980



- 49 -                                   TABLE 4.1
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Tentative 1981-1984 Financial Program
(US$ million)
I. Investment                         1981       1982       1983       1984       Total
A. iNew constructions
DRI I                           9.58        -         -          -          9.58
DRI II                          0.70      2.21       4.59       4.54       12.04
Pico-Pala                       4.00       7.00      9.00       7.00       27.00
Rural Road Project              3.12       6.24     1Lo.21     14.81       34.38
Ordinary program                4.50       3.30      3.40       3.40       14.60
Sub-Total                     21.90     18.75      27.20      29.75       97.60
B. Rehabilitation
DRI II                          0.35       1.10      2.30       2.32        6.07
Rural Road Project              1.56       3.29      5.10       7.25       17.20
Ordinary program                2.90       3.06      4.86      10.00       20.82
Sub-Total                      4.81      7.45      1L2.26     19.57       44.09
C. Studies
DRI II                          0.06      0.10       0.14       0.08        0.38
Rural Road Project              0.29      0.30       0.43         -         1.02
Ordinary program                0.10      0.26       0.15       0.15        0.64
Sub-Total                     0.45       0.64       0.72       0.23        2.04
Total Investment               27.16     26.84      40.18      49.55      143.73
II. Maintenance
A. Equipment
Rural Road Project               -         7.41      2.65        -         10.06
Ordinary program                1.00        -         -          -          1.00
B. Routine Maintenance              -          -          -         -           -
Ordinary Program                0.05      0.37       0.73       1.23        2.38
Total Maintenance               1.05       7.78      3.38       1.23       13.44
III. Administration
Management design supervision   19.47        17.07      14.48     15.81       66.83
Debt Servicing                     0.51       0.52       0.36      0.35        1.74
Sub-Total                         19.98      17.59      14.84     16.16       68.57
Total                             48.19      52.21      58.40     66.94      225.74
Source: FNCV, Mission estimates
September 1980



- 50-                                  TABLE 4.2
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Origin of Resources for the 1981-1984 Program
(US$ million)
1981      1982      1983       1984      Total      %
Resources
FNCV own resources           1.10       1.05      0.96      0.96       4.07      1.8
FONADE                       0.29       0.42      0.19       -         0.90      0.4
DRI I                        9.58        -         -         -         9.58      4.2
DRI II                        1.11      3.41      7.03      6.94      18.49      8.1
IDB                          2.80       4.90      6.30      4.90      18.90      8.4
Highway Fund                31.01      31.30     34.53     43.96    140.80      62.5
Sub-Total                   45.89      41.08     49.01     56.76    192.74      85.4
Rural Road Project           2.30      11.13      9.39     10.18      33.00     14.6
Total                       48.19      52.21     58.40     66.94    225.74      100
Percent                      21         23        26         30
Source: FNCV, National Planning Office, Mission estimates
September 1980



- 51 -                                 TABLE 4.3
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Tentative 1981-1984 Physical Program
(km)
Investment                     1981       1982       19i83      1984       Total
New Construction
DRI I                        275        -           -          -           275
DRI II                         15       45         9i0         90          240
IDB                           95       140         160        105          500
IBRD                          70       140        210        290           710
FNCV                         100        70         710         60          300
555       395        530        545        2,025
Rehabilitation
DRI II                         15       45          90         90          240
IBRD                          70       140        2L0        290           710
FNCV                         130       130        200        400           860
215       315        500        780        1,810
Total                         770      710      1,030      1,325         3,835
Routine Maintenance
FNCV                         100       740      1,410      2,330         4,580
Studies
DRI II                         45        75        105         60          285
IBRD                         210       210        290          -           710
FNCV                           70      170        100         100          440
Total                        325       455        495         160        1,435
Source: FNCV and Appraisal mission
September 1980



- 52 -                               TABLE 4.4
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Design Standards
Specification             Type of Terrain   Special Class    Class I         Class II
Fifth year traffic (ADT)                          100          50/100        0/50
F to Hl/             70            55            40
Design Speed (km/h)           H to i/               60            40            35
M to A/              -             25            20
F to H              180            95            50
Minimum Radius                H to M               125            50            35
M to A               -             18            15
F to H              4-7           4-7           4-7
Maximum Gradient (%)          H to M               4-7            7             7
M to A               -             7             9
F to H              410           300
Passing Sight distance (m)   H to M                350           200
M to A               -            145
F to H               90            60
Staffing Sight distance (m)  H to M                 70            40
M to A               -             20
Right of Way (m)                                    40            30            30
F to H                9           6-7        4.5-5
Roadway Width (m)&/           H to M                 8           6-7        4.5-5
M to A                -         5.5-6.5       4.5-5
F to H                6           5-6         3.5-4
Carriageway width (m)         H to M                 6           5-6        3.5-4
M to A                -         3.5-4.5       3.5-4
Bridge design                                    HS 20.40       to be determined
Pavement                                           paved       gravel    spot gravel
17 F to H means from Flat to Hilly terrain
H to M means from Hilly to Mountainous terrain,
H to A means from Mountainous to Alpine type terrain
2/ Including lateral drainage ditches
Source: FNCV, Resolucion 448, April 10, 1975
September 1980



_ 53 _                                TABLE 4.5
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Purchase of Maintenance Equipment
(US$)
1982                    1983                   Total
IX2e                   No.        Cost            No.      Cost           No.      Cost
Jeep                    24       163,000            0       -              24   163,000
Dump Truck             120    3,060,000            40   1,020,000         160 4,080,000
Loader                  15       810,000            5      270,000         20 1,080,000
Bulldozer (D5 type)    11        517,000            9      423,000         20   940,000
Compactor               22       627,000            0        -             22   627,000
Total & CIF (Cost)    192    5,177,000             54   1,713,000         246 6,890,000
Spare Parts                      523,000                   187,000              710,000
Total (CIF as of
January 1981)                 5,700,000                 1,900,000            7,600,000
Price Contingencies              740,000                   400,000            1,140,000
Total CIF (Bank
financing)                   6,440,000                 2,300,000             8,740,000
Local expenditures (15% CIF)   855,000                     285,000            1,140,000
Local contingencies              115,000                    60,000              175,000
Total Local expenditures         970,000                   345,000            1,315,000
Total                          7,410,000                 2,645,000           10,055,000
Base Cost                     6,555,000                2,185,000             8,740,000
Financial contingencies         855,000                   460,000            1,315,000
Total                         7,410,000                 2,645,000           10,055,000
September 1980



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Road Selection Methodology
1.        This Annex describes the methodology for selecting roads to be
constructed or rehabilitated as contained in FNCV's "Manual for Selection of
Rural Roads." 1/ It also gives the results of an application of the Manual
to eight roads, which was made prior to the appraisal of the project.
Project Identification and Selection
2.        Representatives from MOPT, FNCV and the Departments meet about
twice a year to review regional road programs. The roads to be constructed
by FNCV are identified from direct petitions presented by rural communities.
There are always far more petitions than resources available. The methodology
for selection of roads and preparation of specific subprojects has been
prepared by FNCV in close cooperation with the Bank and IDB. 1/
3.        In order to achieve a regional balance in the distribution of its
funds, FNCV divides its investment budget among the Departments according
to guidelines prepared by DNP, which consider road and population densities.
The average allocation is about 4.6% with a maximum of about 10% for the
Department of Antioquia and minimum of about 0.7% for the Department of
Quindio. The selection of roads to be constructed within each Department
follows several stages. First, by using a points system, the most promising
roads are preselected for further analysis. These roads are then evaluated in
more detail, using the economic rate of return (ERR), and, after discarding
roads with an economic return less than the opportunity cost of capital, the
remaining roads can finally be ranked, using the social rate of return if
desired.
4.        The main objective of the first level of selection is to eliminate,
at an early stage, roads that have little probability of being selected after
the economic analysis has been performed because they are likely to have either
large costs or small benefits. Each subproject submitted by the communities
is evaluated according to a points system based on information about the
terrain, population density, land distribution, potential for increased agricul-
tural production, distance to markets, and access to extension services and
agricultural credit. This information is obtained during a visit to the
communities by an Engineer from FNCV trained for this task. The points allo-
cated to the various data are shown in Attachment 1. After adding up benefit-
related points and cost-related points, a ratio between the benefit and costs
points is calculated and the road projects are ranked in descending order,
1/   Metodologia y Criterios para la Seleccion de Caminos, FNCV Document
O.P. No. 031, September 1980.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
for further evaluation until the total budget plus an additional 20% is
covered. The 20% margin is intended to provide enough roads for construction,
in case any of the roads preselected on the basis of the point system should
not pass the subsequent rate-of-return screening.
5.        In order to proceed with the road evaluation, FNCV would conduct
a second visit to the community and would obtain more detailed and precise
information on costs of construction, agricultural production and income
levels. This is necessary to calculate economic and social rates of return
which take into account benefits from increased production as a result of the
road and the reduction in transportation cost. These benefits would accrue
directly to the rural poor in the form of increased income for their agricul-
tural produce. The team that obtains this information would include an
engineer, an economist and an agriculture expert. The economic rates of
return of the projects are calculated, and a new ranking of projects is
obtained. The highest ranking projects can be included in the program for
each Department until its "share" of FNCV's investment budget is exhausted.
Plrojects with ERRs lower than 11% (the present estimate of the opportunity
cost of capital) cannot be retained. The economic evaluation of a subproject
is made over a ten-year period.
6.        In addition, the social rates of return of the projects, which
incorporate the preference of the society for consumption gains accruing to
t:he poor, can be calculated and used if desired to establish priorities among
roads that have passed the ERR test. The social rate of return used in this
methodology is calculated by applying the distribution weights for consumption
t:o the flow of benefits from the project according to the standard social
accounting approach (Squire/Van der Tak). The distribution weights are de-
fined as the ratio between the consumption per capita for the country and the
consumption of project beneficiaries before the project. Hence, persons (or
groups of persons) with consumption levels below the national per capita level
receive distribution weights greater than one, and the social rate of return
of a project that benefits them is higher than its economic rate of return.
Thus, if the projects benefit persons with different income levels (before the
project), the ranking of projects according to their social rate of return
teill be different from the ranking according to the ERR.
7.         Income levels for the group of beneficiaries, before the project,
are estimated using the value of production per capita in the zone of influence,
:including agriculture and cattle production, and they are adjusted by an
assumed propensity-to-consume of 0.9 in order to obtain consumption values.
Since, with the available information, it is very difficult to estimate the
income levels exactly, the methodology defines several income categories using
the size of the farms. The value of output within each category is calculated
ulsing the mean farm size and the average prices and yields for each type of
output. The distribution weights are calculated ior the mean of each income
,group, and each weight is applied to the consumption increase of project
qbeneficiaries in that income category to obtain a new flow of benefits from
the project.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        Within each Department, the top ranking projects should be selected
until the allocated budget is exhausted. FNCV's methodology is simple to
apply and allows the use of objective criteria to include, in FNCV's program,
projects that favor the poorest groups in the country. Nevertheless, if all
communities considered for road projects are in similar situations regarding
their income and its distribution, the roads selected using either the economic
or the social rate of return are likely to coincide.  During the course of the
Bank project, the rankings of road projects according to the two criteria
would be monitored in order to determine whether the use of social rates of
return changes the composition of the road program and, hence, to determine
whether its use should continue.
9.        During several field visits, FNCV has tested the questionnaires
designed to obtain the necessary information for the point system and the
calculation of the rates of return. In the process, FNCV has prepared a sample
of eight projects which have been evaluated according to their methodology for
selection of roads. The project rankings with the point system and the
economic rate of return are similar, but they do not coincide entirely. The
rankings of projects according to social and economic rates of return are
identical, with the sole exception of a project with a relatively large
porportion of the population in the high income bracket, which receives a
lower ranking with the social rate of return. This fact indicates the potential
of using the social rate of return to give priority to projects that benefit
the poorest groups. As the number of projects evaluated by FNCV increases,
more work to change the weights assigned to several indicators and to improve
the quality of information used to calculate the rates of return would be done
to improve the correlation between the rankings according to the point system
and the rate of return calculations. In the long run, if a good correlation
between the point system and the rates of return can be established, it would
be possible to facilitate the selection of roads to be constructed by using
the point system more exclusively with occasional checks of the ERRs.
Application
10.       As described in the preceding paragraphs, roads are preselected accord-
ing to a points system that uses information from a field visit by the regional
engineer of FNCV and compiles it directly onto a working sheet (Attachment 1)
to arrive at a "benefit/cost" ratio for the primary ranking. Preselected
roads are then subject to a second, more detailed field visit by a team from
FNCV consisting of an engineer, an economist and an agriculture expert. The
data collected are used for calculating the economic and social returns of the
projects.
11.       The economic and social returns were calculated for eight roads
located in the Departments of Boyaca, Huila and Narino according to FNCV's
manual. The results are shown below. Details of the calculations for the
Llamadas-La Argelia road are presented in Attachment 2 as an illustration.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Internal Rates of Return %
Road                             Economic         Social
1.  Reyes Patria-El Infierno                    76.8            166.4
2.  Puente El Diablo-Sirasi                      6.1              6.4
3.  Puente Mueche-Escuela Barrancas             10.5             24.3
4.  Llamadas-La Argelia                         15.6             44.8
5.  El Carmelo-El Cerrito                       36.4             39.8
6.  La Chorrera-Bajo y Alto Frutal               9.3             18.9
7.  La Piedra-El Placer                         24.9             50.7
8.  Santa Maria-Santa Fe                        31.1             60.3
12.       As could be expected, the application of social pricing raises
thie rate of return for all roads.  This is natural since the benefits of
rural roads normally go to the poorer segments of the population. Ranking
the roads according to their rates of return gives the following results:
Road Ranking Order
Economic Return              1   5   8   7   4   3   6   2
Social Return                1   8   7   4   5   3   6   2
13.       From this small sample, only a few conclusions can be drawn.
One road, number 5, drops from a second ranking to a fifth position, mainly
because of the relative wealth of the area of influence (largely cattle
owners) as compared to the areas of the other roads. The relative order
of the other roads remains unchanged although the percentage change between
economic and social return varies for the different roads. Thus, if the
sample were larger, more roads would probably have their ranking order changed.
Throughout the project implementation, the results of the use of the Manual
will be monitored, and modifications will be made as warranted by the results.
January 1981



* -  ~~~~~~~~**~~~~~E ~~REGtONA  L   __                       _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _     EVALUADOR
- ..  ~      DE CAr,:1NS  VEC!NALEs
NOVIBRE DE LA VIA _______ _______   FECHA
.'OJ   DMEL  Fm:R NIVEL                                MLNtCIPIO                                                           HOJA  No I
-S-7 D:A   NIECANZADO                                LDNGITUD           ______ ___________
FORMAULAR0~ W*2-2__________________                                                                                                             _________                           ________
1RACARASTERStAS FISICAS                               P  3             III CARACTERISTICAS ECONOMICAS                                            III CARACTERISTICAS ECONOMICAS                             P.c
1.1 E)XPLANACION                                                        a!3 POTENCIAL  CE FRODUCCION               ________                  ~        riiscm,nI ~              __________
jVFRAUM$E  NilVIAS A AENAVILTMAt          5      8    10             all_ 3.tIi-s,  d"QjjIJ  i                                                                       WU_ _____  AEP   YIl1A!
MAm1A et 20.000 IAII/ g                  2 7    33    47                MA$ DEL 2U%  LE INCLiRI0RACION EEL AREA A AGRICULTURA    1 0            CON MAS DE 3 SERVIC;CIS 
Of1 0000 A 10,1000 bl'/K~                 9    22      31               ENTRE 10 Y20% DVINCUP.PORACION DEL AREA AAGRICULTLJRA     8             CON 2 0 3 SERVICIOS                                       2
NENwCA 0C IQOOC0 I45I'-                  14_  f7  _I9                _ENTIIE  Y MENOS 10% DIE INCOEPORACtON DEL AREA A AGRICULl'  6             CON I SERVIFCIO
1.t *BAS DE DREtAJE                                                        MENOS DEL 5% DE INCORPORAI2ION DEL AREA A AGRICULTURA 2VEDA
UI-I ALCANT1ARILIA.A                        2      3       4               foiki  4c.- lo,  ue!ys               ___             __                  MASSDE LA MITAD CON 2 SERVICIOS2
Ill'-tUEM1C v jOMONis    TOP  MiL                                          SUELOS  TIPO  I Y  120                                                   MAD DE LA.MITAD CDII I StWiI
,aUDG       OWYft0 LINEAL j.)Ci.                                   SUELOS TIPO  III                                        1               MASDSE LA MITAD SIN NINGIGN SERVICIO 
ii-AFIR1,414                                           .                   SIJELOS  TIPO  IV Y V                                    I 0          B., PLANES  DE  DESARROLLO ___________
ACAIRE0MAl0M  of' 1(01K.                                                SUELDS TIPO  VI8
ACAAAW' OSE  A% i5   %                                                  SUELOS TIPO  VI11                                        5               MAS DE LA MITAD SE VENEDAS SERVirDAS                    4
A(AP4io  WI*OR Or 5 Ko.6                                                SUELOS TIPO  VIII                                        0              MENDS DE LA MITAD DE VEkLIU,S   i:RVIDAS---                      ---
TOTAL CAII.ACTEFtlS7ICAS   FISICAS                                                                                                              NINIIUN  PLAN                                            CI               L.
A  SERVICIOS  COMPLEMENTARIOS  EXISTENTES                                  Asislonci  -TlsEn ca
It 'CARACTER'ST1CAS   SOCIALES                         Pissos  --~C     - dI 
24DEMSID~AD  DE  POSLACION                                               UTILIZACION MAYOIR DEL 70/.                             10               MASDSE LA MITAS DE VEREDIAS SERVIDAS                       I
'MAWOf PE 400 HAli.AIES1 K~s DE VIA                    IS               UTILIZACtOD  ENTRE 50OY 70 /%                            5              MENDS SE LA MITAD DE VERECAS SEkI.I.f.S
*E M4AS DE 25 aA 400 H1A eIANTCS /01  tICV VIA        12               UTILIZACtON MENOR DEL SO % *                                             NINGUN  PLAN
OE MAV LE ITCA 250 FAS:TANTES/ Km DE VIA                5                 PRO  FALTA DEL CAMINO 2___________TDNPCCINDL   EL-O                                                              _______
DE SO A 100 NASITA-TES/ K. DC VIA                      2                  PRO  OTRAS CAUSAS                                     0 I             MAS DE LA MITADJ DE VEREDAS SERVIDAS
MENOS DE aD I4ASITAN1ES/K1m DE VIA                     0WIzEd    enc                                                                            MENDS DIE LA MITAD DE VERESAS SERVIDASI
2 2 CISTftIsuclC-   rE LA TIERRA                                                                                                               __SENI   ELIANINGUN  PLAN                                    0
IJILIZACION  MAYOR DEL 70%                             3    __          lr~tuI~L                         __________ 
EL SD% C FIA3 rEL SOICLS ERd PRIDIO2 MENONES CC 10 "A. 15              UTILIZACION ENTRE 5D Y 7 0%-                             2               MASDSE LA MITAD DE VEI1EDAS CON 3 PLANES 0 MA3 
ELC% DM.AS DCLSJE~G EN4 PREDIOS ENTRE ICY SO K~A.  12                  UTILIZACION M,ENOR DEL SON' %                                            LA MITAD SE VEREDAS CON 2 PLAtiES                         '
EL SD/. 0 I/AS DEIL S,E..O EN PFKDIOS MAYORCS OilS M0 A. 5               POR FALTA DEL CAMINIO                                                  MENDS DE LA MITAD DE VEIIEDAS CON I PI-AN RNDRSCUA  . ----            S5
E,. O0% a gAAS DEL SUELS E  RDO MtNORED DIE go MA  5                     TLZCOIITUO                                                           2MNAE
EL.. 40% 0 'lAS DEL SOILr, EN PREEDS0 ENjTRC SOY 100 HA 12             UTILIZECdON MAYOPR DEL 70 %                              5               QIS?oncin
EL 40 %  0 14A3 DEL S51E, EwI 1`11MCS M4AYOR(S DE 1OONA  5UTILIZACION ENTRE SD5  70 ?o                                          3               MENOR DE S K.-                                          7!
TOTAL CkEAC1T9RISTICAS  SbrCIALES                                      UTILIZACION IIENOR  DEL SD  '.6                                          DE 5 A 12! Km~.                                         -
PFOR FALTA CLE. CAMIA11O                               2              CIE 1IAA ?O K..                                         2
PUN III-Ai c/l iAT`(                                                   1.0/I  D   20                                          0



III  CARACTERISTICAS    ECONCNVCAS                                                                                                                                                              &UhlA N0  2
~~~~~ ~~~~VIA
RELACION  INDICADOR BENEFICIO- COSTO
-       -loll  _______   ________         _ 10            CARACTERISTICAS  SOCIALES -t- ECONOMICAS
tITdI  SO 1 70 lo. - 
__   ____      _____________ __  __                              CARACTERISTICAS  FISICAS
ie'rte 'L O    so *                                   4
TUIrAL. CARACTCeLIS T If COAISO                         _         ACEPTADO        Sl         0 _-_N O
FoAS  *A  Al Co  ificar    Servicios Comunoles existentes  en los veredas rem(tose a Plones de Desarrollo (introestructura). Compare puntojes y osigne eI mayor valor de tos ds, onotoe  uno X
en el meror sa or paro ev,ter la doble computociOn.
*  Si lo u'zoac&n  de Ios Seroicios CompliBmentarlos  exlstentes es inferior a] 50"!  por alguna de los cousos onotodos  rem(toso  a  Planes de Desorrollo. Compore punroles y osigne el
rmaOMr volor de I's cts, anota una X on el menor valor pora evitor doble  computocion.
OBSERVACIONES .                                                                                                      _
00
--
___o So.                                                                                                                                                                ______.                                   I
jikis Section Planwion y Estudios   SocketenomIcos                                           ~~~~Jefe Oficino  de Ploneocion



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Evaluation of the road from Llamadas to La Argelia
This case study summarizes in abbreviated form the evaluation of one of
the eight sample roads prepared for the appraisal of the project. The full
evaluation of all eight sample roads are in the Project File.
Road Length:             8 km
Area of Influence:       5,600 ha
Terrain:                 Mountainous 69%; Rolling 27%; Flat 4%
Geology:                 Earth 27%; Conglomerate 24%; Rock 49%
Culverts:                9 per km
Population Density:      30-60 families per vereda
6- 8 members per family
Land Distribution:       less than 10 ha per farm       60%
10-20 ha per farm             30%
more than 20 ha per farm       10%
without project with project
Land Use in Area:        agriculture              30%             39%
of Influence:           cattle                   30%             29%
unused                  40%             32%
Soil Type:               7 (according to soil map for Colombia)
J



-61-                    ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
Page 2
Main Crops:                Maize 26%, Frijol 17%, Lulo 9%, Sugar Cane 7%, other 41%
Agricultural Credit:       used by 50-70% of the farmers
Fertilizer:                used by 50-70% of the farmiers
Distance to market:        26 km
Transportation cost:       Col$ 200 per ton-km by donkey
Col$ 13 per ton-km by truck
Benefit Points:            54
Cost Points:               51
Point Ratio:                1.06
without    with(in year 6)
Yield:(kg/ha)              1,000           1,250        for maize
250            350        for frijol
1,250          1,875        for other
Acreage Cultivated: (ha)  1,680            2,200
Agricultural
Production (ton)            975           1,707
ERR Calculation
Invest-     Net Benefit        Benefit
ment       of production    of transport        Maintenance       Net
Year           Cost          increases       Cost Savings           Cost        Benefits
Col $         Col $              Col $              Col $          Col $
1           24,644             -                  -                -          (-24,644)
2                              348              1,290             672              966
3                            1,394              1,369             672            2,090
4                            3,835               1,650             672           4,812
5                            6,275               1,738             672            7,341
6-10                         6,972               1,791             672           8,091
ERR      15.6%



-62-                     ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
Page 3
Social Rate of Return Calculation
Total                                 Distri-
Number of   Family    Production   Consumption Consumption   bution
Farm Size (ha)        Farms       Size     per farm       per farm    per capita   weight 2/
Col $        Col $ 1/      Col $
Less than 10          102          8        14,464         13,017         1,627       27.7
10-20                  52         8         62,676         56,408         7,051        6.4
21-50                  67         7        159,100        143,190        20,456        2.2
More than 50           44          7       265,168        238,651        34,093        1.3
Net Consumption       Social
Farm Size (ha)                Increase          Benefits 3/
Col $           Col $
Less than 10                      376            10,429
10-20                            753             4,804
21-50                          2,447             5,384
More than 50                    2,698             3,562
Total    24,179
Invest-                            Benefit
ment            Social            of transport     Maintenance         Net
Year            Cost          Benefits            Cost Savings          Costs        Benefits
Col $          Col $                  Col $             Col $         Col $
1            24,644             -                    -                  -         (-24,644)
2                               1,209               1,290              672            1,827
3                              4,836                1,369              672            5,533
4                              13,298               1,650              672           14,276
5                             21,761                1,738              672           22,827
6-10                          24,179                1,791              672           25,297
SRR     44.8%
1/ Propensity to consume is assumed at 0.9 of production
2/ National average consumption level Col$45,000 divided by consumption per capita
3/ Net consumption increase multiplied by distribution weight



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Consultants will be employed for
(a) Study of FNCV's Data Collection and Processing System
(b) Study of FNCV's Organizational Structure
1.   Introduction
The 1981-1984 FNCV plan is part of a ten year strategy designed to
provide for a balanced works program. An integral part of this program is the
initiation of a much needed road maintenance policy.  To effectively plan,
organize and control these expanded activities and continue ongoing decentrali-
zation efforts, FNCV must improve its management capabilities. Consulting
services are required to bring about this goal, particularly in the areas of
information processing and organizational structure.
2.   Objectives
To ensure that:
(a) FNCV's data collection and processing system supplies management
with aggregate information covering: (1) road network characteristics
and growth; (2) cost and expenditure allocation; (3) the equipment,
labor, contractors and financial means available to FNCV; and
(4) administrative and financial efficiency; and
(b) that FNCV's organizational structure operates as efficiently as
possible without major bottlenecks or delays.
-,. Functions
Study of FNCV's Data Collection, Processing and Distribution System
(a)  Phase 1:  Focus on analyzing the existing FNCV data collection system
which fails to provide management with either reliable statistics or
figures which readily assist informed decision making. Such analysis
should include:
(1)  physical data covering the rural roads network, the labor force,
equipment, contractors, works in progress and works completed
to date;
(2)  financial data on the budget and the accounting system; and
(3)  administrative data on bidding, implementation, supervision and
auditing operations.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b)  Phase 2:  In conjunction with FNCV's management, develop a proposal to
improve the information processing system. It is important that this
proposal be a simple and practical one, not requiring involved techniques.
Study of FNCV's Organizational Structure
(a)  Phase 1:  Focus on analyzing the existing organizational structure
- the functions, responsibilities, coordination and interaction
among the different department and services of FNCV. An attempt
should be made at this stage to identify all administrative
bottlenecks hindering the efficient utilization of FNCV's resources.
(b)  Phase 2:  In consultation with FNCV's management, determine the
appropriate changes to be made in the organizational structure and
in operational requirements to promote greater organizational
efficiency.
(c)  Phase 3:  Prepare a detailed proposal and strategy, agreed upon
by FNCV's management, to be carried out within a three-year period
to achieve the gradual implementation of the recommendations made
in Phase 2.
4.   Period and Requirements
(a)  It is envisaged that the technical assistance called for can be
provided in ten man-months from consultants of high international
caliber.
(b)  Two specialists are recommended:
(1) A highway engineer experienced in highway management
accounting procedures and data information collection and
processing. He should have 15 years or more of experience,
including at least five in public administration.
(2) A public administration specialist with at least 15 years
of experience, including five years in private administra-
tion. Some familiarity with public works is also essential.
(c)  The specialists would devote:
(1) Two months for Phase 1 activities.
(2) One month for Phase 2 activities.
(3) The remaining two months for Phase 3 activities.
(d)  The Bank should receive:
(1) A brief report, covering the, consultants' analysis of the
situation by the end of month two.
(2) A copy of proposals, recommendations, and the manual
by the end of month five.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
.'. Special FNCV Counterparts and Support Services
FNCV should supply the consultants with specialists from the FNCV
administration to aid technical assistance efforts.  The organization should
also furnish support services, such as offices, secretarial staff, and trans-
portation.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Statistical Data on Rural Roads Construction 1975-1978 (December 1979)
2.    FNCV's Report on its Organization, Budget, and Physical Resources
(February 1980)
3.    The Planning Process in FNCV (March 1980)
4.    DNP's Methodology for Allocations of Investments between Departments
(December 1979)
5.    FNCV's Manual for Selection of Rural Roads (September 1980)
6.    FNCV's Maintenance Plan (April 1980)
7.    FNCV's Classification Methodology for Contractors
8.    Economic Evaluation of Eight Sample Roads (August 1980)
9.    Departmental Maps of Rural Roads
January 1981



MINISTE RIO DE OBRAS PUBLICAS Y TRANSPORTE
ORGANISMOS DESCENTRALIZADOS                                                                                                OROANiGRAMA
| rNk- r-~~~~~~~~~-~-~-~~----------~MINIS~TROI  
PUsI OS       ;  olNrRPTeoNi    ,                  |     _      ..... _...E.........SK                                                                                                           LD-f   ^5
. r55 05         1                                                                                                       I 00 0E M 00*N  5 TR                                                      i
DIRECCION DDLC S    rOfSAL    2                                                                  1  PqDIRECCION DE  I oE                                         DIRECCION                      DIRECCION DE
CARR                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~NAVEDAC       ~    INIELE                  0IIAINE   ERCIALY VRLCONESS
*os,oso  CARRETERAD                                                   Pu  RTO                      NACIONAI.~        ~      ~~~~~~~ES  FTA                 INANCIERA                       D.SRAE
505.0000001IE05 cONSI | l=aL Y ROS-ORDCOO                                        VICE RUS-DI N  * ST  NN                             Y S TOOt RooI ol
PEROVOYOTO8 S                   UERIION           00 00100          .0OLRO*IR                 *6 P.BSUC.          
T-1c,1
R : t D.A.f.,d.
FCtOYCT O S 005    905c0 150100                   5000        .....   TOSO               IOCS,00   0010                TOCVIO^CO                                 010$     ,      01000       tOW               0(S000515          0010  90500    00............0(............... 5001_ _
550050so .lhd 00.    1 d5 I9S
Rel-cflD  de A-.OldD         _      _
U.10,d. d0 Adotor.b d    ______________
RsIaocln de Coocd,noc00n    _             
IJOIidOd ds 0,000100 de 000 CO bObttonslorllo                                                                                                                                                                                                     __ 



COLOMBIA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Organizational Chart of FNCV
Board of Directors
Organization and
.                   FTf~TnF1~                   Methods
.- .. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Planning                                           l.
Personnel        Bidding                                                   Office
Committee             ttee                  General Directorate                                 Planning and Socio
L__e_ gaEconomic Studiesl
~ ~~~~~Office
| Opeatioal W  _ _ I Geeral Secretariati
Deputy Director                                               .Deputy Directorl
of Engineering                                                              of Administration
.   I                                  .               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Financingl
Technical    Supervision      Programming                      Financing    Resources    Social Service        Administrative
Division       & Control      Division                         Division      Division      Division            Division
I [ Design &  |         | Programming                           Budgeting        Warehouse &                    Personnel
Section     Spare Part's                   Sectio
Studies,               I  Section                                            4sp                              |Scto 
Bidding &               Equipment                          |Accounting         Supporting                     Social
tI  Contracts!        \ Section       r[LLSection                            - 7   oSection    I              Security
4  Appropri- |                                              l{Treasury                                         F     I
Archives
L Biddingi   -              Districts
,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Technical    Administrative
Section       Section



i4-                                          72+
0         50        100        t50       200        250      350
C O LOMBIA                                                                   .,LOMEtIRS
50               00               15              200                                                               12
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                                                                           CriES
11i,1 11,, I -de-                                                                                      ~       
Car&hvoso          So'u                         ROirvvtR4- 
-        Paved troro rOos                          |I                                                                                        ,
Unpaved roads                                                   $                                                                     SaivavArvoa
0    FNCV Direotarates                                                     -i-             ' o o'
_     aliroar,disoontmeed                                                                                             -   ,
O    Interndtional aorports ti   a                                                                  
6t Paved airportts                                            yraoaaa         iP *           t,S.ala    Tlonanv      a5       !   
*    Unpaved airports                                           _-$    e-i   0 i             5               r      S
.    River ports                                            -,    vvov6                         N vi.v  vo        a   rvv
Navigable r,vers                                      Jxr\      VF
Ecotih ns above 1400 meters                                 5                      ov I r,                    Ova d.Ovv        R==
Dapart.nA,f bovddearis .                                                                                   t /                                  Love
-.-      lterrl-tinotl bododarins                         rv -                                       \
5,n F NI  T   O ) 9 f ); CmS? .  h5n.o   = = = = .                              inv=
= =   C  4 '\E D                             f  S     A     =~~rvy  I!   N        E      E     S \{'\            5 /    /                                           ,    C 
PA l47M AX ;t\\M5NE2TY- S <;fJ F f X E 6) EREREVV E Nt  E=Z- U ETLA- 
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ai                                        it         a    )-C" ;    fl o L   l s * % ? D ~   I      5 t -V                     1:  S a   PZ@j-r   
| ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    -o        A 0>                                        tuiLr |r    0 i 1 ;.t -tw2/z/ U   q     ;CtCA=          R
Lf|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 02n n% Xy~ iv
S~ ~~~~~~~~~ avi                                                                                                         - RrivS<  9 ? i,ia deUa     g
s5rInue         voo <                                       POviai<l  v<        //ov >#  tPva nvva.i
ta ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ --v                 *  5>                          ervav o  r           Qg55o un vernv   7 g >       g                          s%Rc 
r   i ,    s.       <   *-;s;             r              Q                        ///          ,    / gJ \    ?   X~~oiv  VEN nrarovorrt.d
/-2--,OQoP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I M h-1 I                                                                                                    1     !
to~~~~~~~~ pO                                                                                                                             raiL A v A c A .o  O e a v n'a r v.    a  IdCznnFwX  ee i ' M  'r v v r
-'~~~~~~ s                             ;               ; \         i  v      a               o r v -          A               iir i  O v e ~ e l  y oT ~                  ao 2 n e o i   Pao vrT ain /< Z =
e/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~//                                                  rtaa                                  WoioOvoCvrDi-aovoav
E~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~lV i>                          a _                                                                                            nvra70aarn  your  t X           ~ 
D"           / ;''
=12o                                                                                                                              S_ er==oavravo
I                     =  =  = t=ivv  rv,/9'v=v= i    =  '   ,,       i                                                          Roav
p5          (            Oviirvii.vO        ~~~~~~~e    451a          Olovo.                                      *Aivaviv           avabb~ . T.
P,  0- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nN  ri aa 
I        I   rvro.v                     -    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I "
9124  ~ ~ ~                   Bib                     iv~~~~a                   555                             vrv..          via Ovavay~~ia    -w
arivri is                          vci,rvov          4cvvea\o ~~    tiCi4o



