OF   h         LOAN NUMBER 1966-CO
DOCUJMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Rural Roads Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
Dated                       c240    , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1966-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated eSra& u.      , 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 11.03. Action on behalf of the Borrower
or Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to
to executed, pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the
Guarantee Agreement, on behalf of the Borrower or the
Guarantor, may be taken or executed by the representa-
tive of the Borrower, or of the Guarantor designated
in the Guarantee Agreement for the purposes of this
Section, or any person thereunto authorized in
writing by such representative. Any modification or
amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement
or the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf
of the Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument
executed on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor by
such representatives or any person thereunto authorized
in writing by him; provided that such modification or
amplification is reasonable in the circumstances and
will not substantially increase the obligations of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement or of the Guarantor
under the Guarantee Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Special Account" means the account to be opened by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
(b) "Manual" means the "Metodologia y Criterios para la
Selecci6n de Caminos", Document 0.P. No. 031 dated September
1980, published by the Borrower, as amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) "Physical Programming Division" means the Divisi6n de
Programaci6n Fisica of the Borrower.
(d) "General Directorate" means the Direcci6n General of
the Borrower.
(e) "Investment Program" means the Borrover's investment
program for the years 1981 through 1984 as set forth in the Acta
of the Junta Directiva of the Borrower dated March 5, 1981, as
such program may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower.
(f) "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower approved
by Decree No. 366 dated February 27, 1978, as amended by Decree
No. 1411 dated June 15, 1979 and as such estatutos may be a-mended
from time to time.
(g) "Acuerdo de Gastos" means the acuerdo referred to in
Article 81 of Decree Law No. 294, dated February 28, 1973.
(h)   "MOPT" means the Ministerio de Obras PGblicas of the
Guarantor.
(i) "pesos" and "Col$" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty three
million dollars ($33,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from


﻿-3-
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Bank shall, promptly after the compliance by the
Borrower with the condition of disbursement established in para-
graph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, withdraw, at the
request and on behalf of the Borrower, from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account the amount allocated under
Category (5) of paragraph 1 of such Schedule.
(c) Thereafter, the Bank shall, at the request of the
Borrower, withdraw, on behalf of the Borrower, from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Parts (1) and (2) of the Project in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) above.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out
of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as the
Bank shall reasonably request, showing that the payment was made
on account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required
for Part (1) or (2) of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (1) was made for any expenditure or in
any amount not eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan, or (ii) was not supported by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless otherwise deter-
mined by the Bank, prior to any further deposit in the Special
Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special Account an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified;
(f) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals from the Loan Account can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Loan Account under paragraph (a) of this
Section, or when the total amount remaining unwithdrawn under


﻿-4-
Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement less the amount of
any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions under such Category, shall have
reached the equivalent of $2,700,000 whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining amount of the
Loan assigned under said Category (1) shall follow such procedures
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and shall
be made only to the extent that the Bank shall be satisfied by
the evidence submitted in support of the applications for such
withdrawal that all payments by the Borrower out of the Special
Account were made on account of the reasonable cost of works or
services required for Part   (1) or (2) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section'2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
,time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative and engineering practices.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) select the roads to be
constructed and rehabilitated under Parts (1) and (2) of the
Project, respectively, in accordance with the criteria and
methodology established therefor in the Manual including, inter
alia, a rate of return for the works to be executed in such roads
of not less than 11%; and (ii) furnish to the Bank, for its
approval, a detailed report on each of the road sections the
Borrower intends to select for purposes of Parts (1) and (2) of
the Project, such report to include, inter alia, the economic
justification for the selection of such road sections.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts (1)
and (2) of the Project, open a Special Account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank in a bank acceptable to
the Bank. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively to pay the reasonable costs of works and services
required to carry out Parts (1) and (2) of the Project.
(d) Without limitation of its obligations under paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall:
(i) not later than 30 days after the deposit by the
Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, of the amount
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement,
deposit in the Special Account an initial amount
equivalent to $1,650,000;
(ii) thereafter, not later than 60 days after each
deposit made by the Bank in the Special Account
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement,
deposit in such Account an amount equal to the
aggregate payments made from such Account for the
expenditures for which the Bank has made the
deposit referred to above less the amount of such
deposit;
(iii) at all times, take all action necessary to deposit
into the Special Account such funds as shall be
sufficient to permit a timely and efficient execu-
tion of Parts (1) and (2) of the Project; and
(iv) by February 28 and August 31 of each year, agree
with the Guarantor and the Bank on the provision
of fund requirements for a timely and efficient
execution of Parts (1) and (2) of the Project for
the next following six-month period.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Part (4) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, not
later than January 1, 1982, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds; and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank
quarterly reports containing in respect of each road section
included under Parts (1) and (2) of the Project, information on
the contracts awarded and the aggregate amount of expenditures
incurred for each such section, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) by January 31 and September 30
of each year, exchange views with the Bank on the extent to which
the Borrower has achieved the objectives of its Investment Program
and on the progress of the Project; and (ii) by September 30
of each year, furnish to the Bank its proposed budget for the
following year and exchange views with the Bank thereon.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a project completion report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(f) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine such plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and such relevant records
and documents as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall conduct its business and
operations in accordance with appropriate engineering, financial
and administrative practices and under the supervision of expe-
rienced and competent management assisted by adequate, experienced
and competent staff.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1982, inform
the Bank of the Borrower's recruitment and training policies in
respect of its personnel and afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment thereon.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 1981,
confer upon its Physical Programming Division responsibilities
for the road maintenance planning of the rural roads network
assigned to the Borrower;
(b) promptly after the Effective Date, confer and maintain
the control and administration of the road maintenance equipment
to be acquired under Part (3) of the Project to its General
Directorate;
(c) by November 30, 1981, complete a detailed inventory
of the existing rural roads network assigned to the Borrower,
and, thereafter, by June 30 of each year update such inventory;
(d) by December 31, 1981, carry out a program to scrap
about forty-seven units of obsolete maintenance equipment; and
(e) by September 30, 1982, carry out a program to scrap
about fifty-two additional units of obsolete maintenance equipment
and to dispose of existing obsolete spare parts at the Borrower's
central storehouse in Bogota.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1981, estab-
lish, and thereafter maintain, a three-person working group in
charge of identifying any technical difficulties arising in the
carrying out of its operations and proposing to the Borrower's
management appropriate solutions therefor.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out its Invest-
ment Program in accordance with appropriate administrative and
engineering practices including, iter alia, the establishment of
an adequate balance between its construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance activities in order to maintain the Guarantor's rural
roads network for which the Borrower is responsible at an adequate
level.


﻿-9
(b) the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank promptly after
its request all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Investment Program.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, certified
copiec of its financial statements for such year as so audited;
(iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested including,
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account (other than those proceeds deposited in the Special
Account) on the basis of certificates of expenditures were used to
make payment for goods received, or works or services performed,
and that such goods, works or services were eligible for financing
under this Agreement; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall in respect of the Special Account:
(i) have such Account audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistenatly
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, on June 30 and December 31 of each year;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than three months after the end


﻿- 10 -
of each auditing period, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, in-
cluding without limitation to the foregoing a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Special
Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
tures were used to make payments for goods
received, or works or services performed, and that
such goods, works or services were eligible for
financing under this Agreement and were used in the
carrying out of Parts (1) and (2) of the Project;
(iii) furnish to the Bank each month certified statements
of the Special Account and such other information
concerning such Account and the said certificates
of expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall retain, until two years after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures for the Project
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures and enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price


﻿- 11 -
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Estatutos of the
Borrower or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended or abrogated which would affect, materially and
adversely, the operation or financial condition of the Borrower
or the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date)Ub-Au,     3    /, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
For the Borrower:
Fondo Nacional de Caminos
Vecinales
Avenida Caracas 6357
Bogota, D.E.
Colombia
Telex:
45866
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorizea, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works and             22,730,000
consultants'
services for
Parts (1) and
(2) of the
Project:
(a) carried out                               45%
under con-
tracting
(b) carried out                               32%
by force
account
(2) Equipment and                8,740,000
spare parts
(a) directly                                  100% of
imported                                 foreign
expenditures
(b) imported and                              80%
procured
locally
(c) locally                                   90% of ex-
manufactured                              factory cost
(3) Hand tools                      90,000         45%


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Consultants'                    90,000         87%
services for
Part (4) of
the Project
(5) Initial deposit              1,350,000
pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b)
of this
Agreement
TOTAL        33,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule; the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b) under Category (5) of such paragraph, until the Borrower
has provided to the Bank: (i) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,


﻿- 15 -
of the establishment of the Special Account; and (ii) a certified
copy of the Acuerdo de Gastos providing for the order of payment
of an amount equivalent to $1,650,000, corresponding to the
counterpart funds referred to in Section 3.01 (d) (i) of this
Agreement;
(c) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Category (1) of such paragraph, unless the Borrower furnishes to
the Bank: (i) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that it has
deposited in the Special Account the counterpart funds referred to
in Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement; and (ii) a certified
copy of the Acuerdo de Gastos providing for the order of payment
of the counterpart funds to be deposited by the Borrower in the
Special Account pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agree-
ment;
(d) under Categories (1) and (2) of such paragraph, unless
the Bank has approved the reports on the respective road section
for which withdrawals from the Loan Account are being requested
by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Loan
Agreement;
(e) in respect of the expenditures for spare parts included
under .ategory (2) of such paragraph for an amount exceeding
10% of the payments made for the equipment included under such
Category;
(f) in respect of expenditures for civil works executed by
force account for amounts exceeding the Borrower's official cost
estimates for such works; and
(g) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Category (1) of such paragraph, unless the Guarantor, the Bank and
the Borrower have reached the agreement for the provision of funds
to the Special Account referred to in Section 3.01 (d) (iv) of
this Agreement within the dates specified therein.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the.Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to


﻿- 16 -
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's Investment Program
whose basic objectives are the following: (i) gradual increase
in the proportion of rehabilitation works within the Borrower's
total working program; (ii) establish the basis for a routine
maintenance program; and (iii) strengthen the Borrower's capabili-
ties in the areas of planning, management and control. The Project
will consist of the following:
Part (1) Construction of about 710 kms of roads.
Part (2) Rehabilitation of about 710 kms of roads.
Part (3) A program of routine maintenance of rural roads
including, inter alia, the acquisition and utilization
of hand tools and about 250 units of equipment.
Part (4) Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the
Borrower's administrative structure and, especially,
its management information system.
T  P          *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1985
through   October 15, 1997                  1,270,000
On April 15, 1998                                1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.70%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.20%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                  8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  9.60%


﻿- 20
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 21 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of
each group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be
compared among themselves, without taking into account customs
duties and other import taces levied in connection with the
importation, and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such
lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and
if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B
is the lowest, it shall.be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 22 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost, after grouping in
accordance with paragraph 1.1 of Part A of the Guidelines the
equivalent of less than $50,000, and up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000, shall be procured in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures.
2.   Contracts for civil works, included under Parts (1) and (2)
of the Project and hand tools for purposes of Part (3) of the
Project shall be procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts foTr civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $700,000 or more:
(a) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(c) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract for civil works not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract. The Borrower shall retain, until two years after
the Closing Date, all records evidencing the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other


﻿- 23 -
information as the Bank shall reasonably request and enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to examine such records. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more;
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
4.   With respect to each contract for goods not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,


﻿- 24 -
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
5.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for Parts (1) and (2) of the Project, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect of Part
(1) and of $3,000,000 in respect of Parts (1) and (2) of the
Project, may be executed by the Borrower by force account,
provided, however, that the Borrower shall so execute such works
after completion of a procurement procedure in which no acceptable
bid or quotation was presented.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this !day of*, 198 _
FOR SECRETARY


