LOAN NUMBER 1966-CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Rural Roads Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated            r                  , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1966-CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      g2/*                          , 1981,
between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Republic of Colombia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million dollars
($33,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor


﻿-2-
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed by the
Borrower to comply with its obligations under paragraph (d) of
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and to meet the expenditures
required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in
the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank,
of the Guarantor or of any entity owned or controlled by, or


﻿-3-
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor, including
gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabiliza-
tion fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the accoutt or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, acting through MOPT,
maintain and repair the Borrower's road maintenance equipment in
accordance with appropriate technical standards.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall exchange views and agree
with the Bank and the Borrower, by February 28 and August 31 of
each year, on the provision of fund requirements for Parts (1) and
(2) of the Project as provided under Section 3.01 (d) (iv) of the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Crfdito PGblico
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿4-
For the Guarantor:
Republic of Colombia
Ministerio de Hacienda y
Cr6dito PGblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
BogotA, D.E., Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogotf
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal f the Bank thereunto
this  2e     -day of      * ,198/.
FOR SECRETARY


