Report No. PIC2442
Project Name              Argentina-Bank Reform Loan
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Private Commercial Banking Sector
Project ID                ARPA40904
Borrower                  The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agencies     Name: Central Bank of the Argentine Republic;
address: Reconquista 266 - 1003 Buenos Aires,
Argentina;
contact: Mr. Pablo Guidotti;
telephone number: (541) 348-3726;
fax number: (541) 394-8703
Name: Ministry of Economy; address: HipAlito
Yrigoyen 0 - Piso 10 - Oficina 1020;
contact: Mr. Daniel Falcon;
telephone number: (541) 349-8753;
fax number: (541) 349-8800
Date PID Prepared         July 10, 1995
Appraisal Date            April 1995
Projected Board Date      July , 1995
Country Background
I.   Economic Context.   With the adoption of the Convertibility Plan in
April 1991, Argentina moved quickly from extreme hyperinflation to low
inflation, which dropped to an annual rate of 3.9 percent in 1994, and
rapid GDP growth, which averaged 7.7 percent during the last four years.
As a result of the economic recovery, poverty levels have declined
significantly, although economic restructuring with a rigid labor market
has resulted in increased unemployment, about 12 percent of the labor
force by late 1994.
II.   To deal with problems caused by an initially overvalued exchange
rate, the Government launched a number of microeconomic reforms,
particularly in labor legislation, with the aim of reducing labor costs
and increasing productivity. Exports, which were affected by declining
international prices in 1992-93, rose by 20 percent in 1994, with
manufactured goods exports exhibiting particular buoyancy, growing at an
average of 27 percent in 1993-94. Better international prices for
grains and improved economic conditions in Brazil contributed to export
growth. In 1994, imports grew at the fast pace of 27 percent. Imports
of capital goods led the expansion, indicative of the acceleration in
investment and the restructuring of the economy. Financing trade and
current account deficits was not difficult, given Argentina's improved
access to international financial markets during 1993 and 1994. During
the first two months of 1995, exports rose by 35 percent, while imports
remained approximately at the previous year's level.
III.      With the increased accumulation of international reserves, and
the reduction in bank reserve requirements earlier in 1993, monetary



aggregates expanded at a fast pace. Bank credit also grew at a rapid
rate, reflecting the sub-par, but rapidly improving, monetization of the
economy. Interest rates on peso deposits declined from percent in
December 1992 to 9 percent by early December 1994, just before the
Mexico crisis began. Interest rate spreads, although also declining,
remained high, indicative of the continued segmentation and shallowness
of the financial system. Towards the end of 1994, approximately half of
Argentina's financial assets were dollar-denominated, and interest rates
and spreads on dollars were much lower than those for peso-denominated
assets. The general rise in dollar interest rates that started in early
1994 produced a deceleration in reserve accumulation and credit
expansion in the first three quarters of 1994.
IV. The Mexico Crisis. Argentina was particularly vulnerable to the
events in Mexico due to its relatively heavy reliance on foreign capital
inflows (financing in 1994 an estimated current account deficit of 3.6
percent of GDP), the inflexibility of its exchange rate regime, and the
need for a strong financial system under the Convertibility Plan.
Compared to Mexico, however, Argentina enjoyed several advantages: (a)
its current account deficit was less than half that of Mexico; (b) it
had stable political and economic leadership; (c) its level of
international reserves remained high; (d) public debt maturities were
not concentrated in the short-term spectrum of the market; and (e) many
of its structural reforms--privatization, governmental reform, domestic
market liberalization, and foreign investment--were deeper.
Nevertheless, Argentina could not escape the effects of Mexico. Its
stock and bond markets suffered precipitous losses, and, given its
exchange rate system, the Central Bank lost more than US$5 billion of
its reserves between December 1994 and end March 1995.
V.   The Government reacted forcefully to the crisis.    During February
and March 1995, it took measures to reestablish a fiscal surplus by
cutting expenditures on, inter alia, export subsidies, public sector
wages, and social security expenditures, while raising Value-Added Tax
(VAT) rates and other taxes and eliminating many tax exemptions. These
measures are expected to yield some US$6.3 billion, about 2 percent of
GDP, during the remainder of 1995. Swift action by Congress in
approving unpalatable emergency measures added to their credibility.
The Government expects to maintain strong macroeconomic management under
an IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program, which was extended to June
3, 1996, with an increased amount of US$2.4 billion.
VI. As the Government announced these measures in mid-March 1995, it
also assembled an international financial package of approximately US$11
billion in support of the Convertibility Plan. About US$5.4 billion
would come from the IMF, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and
the World Bank; with an additional US$800 million from the Eximbank of
Japan; over US$2 billion from two large bond issues; and US$2.4 billion
is expected from projected asset sales. As a result, by early April
1995 financial markets showed signs of stabilization and recovery, and
appear to have become firmer. Not only did the authorities react firmly
to the crisis on the eve of presidential elections by suspending
insolvent banks, but they have also received strong political support in
Congress, where financial reform legislation was approved swiftly and
the mechanism for crisis resolution was rapidly put into place.
-2 -



VII.      The Mexico crisis brought to light important lessons for
Argentina. It highlighted the extent of the economy's reliance on
volatile capital flows; revealed the need for a strong financial system,
given the Central Bank's limited lender of last resort capabilities;
reemphasized the need to sustain the credibility of the economic
program; and clearly illustrated the difficulties of a fixed exchange
system in times of generalized crisis. The Government's forceful and
rapid reaction to the crisis has reduced concerns about future domestic
policies, but the external environment remains uncertain. Although the
initially strong negative reaction of financial markets to the Mexican
crisis has been partially abated, a clear reluctance to renew
significant flows of capital towards emerging markets remains,
particularly flows to Latin America. Moreover, there continues to be a
general lack of market discrimination between countries in the region.
Even under an optimistic scenario, in which the principal countries
affected by the crisis adopt appropriate economic policy measures to
reestablish credibility in the eyes of international investors, access
to international financial markets may only be slowly reestablished, and
capital inflows are likely to remain well below those observed in
previous years for quite some time.
Financial Sector Background
VIII.     Structure of the Banking System.   Argentina's financial sector
consists chiefly of commercial banks. This is a result of Argentina's
Law of Financial Entities (LFE) which allows banks to extend a full
scope of financial services. Of a total of 203 financial institutions
existing in December 1994, 168 were commercial banks which accounted for
98 percent of total financial sector assets. The remaining 35 banks
were finance companies or savings institutions that do not offer
checking account services. As of April 15, 1995 the number of
commercial banks had shrunk to 140, owing to 15 mergers, principally
among the cooperative and regional retail banks. The banking system as
of that date included three federal public banks (Banco de la NaciAn
Argentina (BNA), Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BHN), and Banco de
InversiAn y Comercio Exterior (BICE), 29 provincial/municipal banks
(three of which have been privatized); 57 national private banks
(including the formerly federal Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguros,
privatized in 1992), 31 foreign private banks, and 20 cooperative banks.
Overall, private banks (including cooperatives) accounted for about 55
percent of total assets, and 59 percent of total deposits as of February
1995. The 10 largest private banks, each with assets over US$1 billion,
accounted for between 28 and 30 percent, respectively, of total assets,
loans and deposits.
IX. Resource Mobilization and Interest Rates. Until 1990, financial
deepening in Argentina decreased as a result of declining confidence in
the domestic currency and other financial assets. Successive episodes
of hyperinflation and outright asset confiscations in the early 1980s
and later in 1990 discouraged investors and depositors from holding
domestic financial assets. Since 1990, the Government has sought to
increase mobilization of financial resources and thereby contain the
cost of capital to meet the anticipated expansion of demand.
Macroeconomic stabilization and growth policies were very successful in
increasing resource mobilization, at least until the end of 1994. With
-3 -



greater interest rate stability and higher growth, currency and bank
deposits increased from an average of 5 percent of GDP in 1990 to 19
percent in 1994. The policies were further successful in increasing
corporate equity and bond issues. Corporations, including commercial
banks, raised an impressive US$9.9 billion in equity issues and
registered US$6.5 billion in bond issues during 1990-1993. Finally,
increased resource mobilization reduced lending rates, from 52 percent
at the onset of the Convertibility Plan in April 1991 to 23 percent in
November 1994.
X.   Partly generated by memories of past confiscations of deposits, the
disruption of Mexico's economy triggered a banking crisis. Loss of
confidence led depositors to withdraw a total of about US$8 billion from
the banking system, thereby causing a major liquidity crisis. As a
result, interest rates increased to levels unprecedented since the onset
of the Convertibility Plan, and in March 1995, the banking system was on
the brink of a fatal run on deposits. The Central Bank (BCRA),
converted into a currency board in 1991, was rigorously constrained in
its ability to provide liquidity.
Sector Adjustment Program
XI. Provision of Liquidity. Faced with the banking crisis, the
Government struggled to provide liquidity. This effort included: (i)
an initial "club" of five private banks in early January 1995 each
contributing about US$50 million to purchase illiquid wholesale bank
portfolios; and (ii) a transfer of 2 percent or about US$870 million of
the banks' reserves at the Central Bank into a special account with the
Banco de la NaciAn Argentina (BNA). BNA, acting as agent for and on
instructions from the Central Bank, lent the funds to wholesale and
provincial banks at 16 percent p.a. against collateral of bank assets
and in some cases personal guarantees of the owners. These funds were
quickly exhausted. In February 1995, the Trust Fund for Privatization
was established to handle the workout of provincial banks.
XII.      The Central Bank's capacity to act as a lender of last resort
is constrained by the Convertibility Law which requires it to limit its
monetary liabilities below its international reserves. As of April
1994, BCRA provided US$1.8 billion in extraordinary liquidity assistance
to all banks. (see 1/) Banks met further liquidity needs through lower
reserves requirements (about US$1.7 billion) and by exercising their
right to borrow a part of their required reserves (about US$1.3
billion), currently set at 32 percent. The Central Bank's charter was
amended to allow it to extend the maturity of its liquidity rediscounts,
thereby enabling it to lend for terms beyond 60 days and above the
previous ceiling of the net worth of a bank. However, under the
restriction of the Convertibility Law, BCRA has little capacity at
present to provide further liquidity. With available liquidity in the
system virtually exhausted, the government established a Bank
Capitalization Trust Fund (BCTF) to handle the
recapitalization/restructuring of distressed banks.
XIII.     Deposit Insurance.   To help restore confidence, the Government
created a limited deposit insurance scheme, effective April 17, 1995.
Deposits with maturities of less than 90 days are insured up to
-4 -



US$10,000. A further US$10,000 insurance is provided for deposits
exceeding 90 days maturity (total insurance on these deposits is
US$20,000 minus any claims on deposits below a 90-day maturity). These
insured amounts include the first right of claim that deposits of up to
US$5,000 have on the reserves of a failing bank. For term deposits, the
new insurance applied to new deposits after April 18, 1995. The
insurer, a privately financed Deposit Insurance Fund, would cover nearly
100,000 holders of fixed-term accounts, plus a large majority of savings
and current accounts, totalling about US$10 billion, or a quarter of
deposits. The fund will be financed by contributions from the banks.
The fund is likely to reverse the decline in small deposits, but is less
likely to encourage the return of institutional deposits.
XIV.      Bank Regulation.   The Government has steadily improved bank
regulation and supervision. Prudential regulations of the BCRA cover:
(i) capital adequacy and minimum capital requirements; (b) reserve
requirements; (c) loan classification and loan-loss provisioning; (d)
operations with affiliated companies; (e) consolidation; (f) internal
and external auditing; and (g) diversification of credit risk. Minimum
capital requirements for commercial banks are subject to risk ratings
based on normal CAMEL criteria. Minimum capital requirements were set
at 11.5 percent of risk-weighted assets (adjusted by the CAMEL-based
risk rating) as of January 1995. These include a minimum of about 8
percent of risk-weighted assets in tier one (equity) capital. Portfolio
classification has been changed from a classification system based
primarily on guarantees to one reflecting a borrower's financial
situation and repayment capacity. Provisioning requirements are
determined both by portfolio quality and by the guarantee arrangements.
As of December 1994 the sub-normal portfolios in public and private
banks were 33 percent and 10.3 percent, respectively.
XV. Supervision. Together with the improvement in prudential
regulation, enforcement capacity is being strengthened steadily. The
Superintendency of Financial Entities (SEF)'s capabilities have been
improved during the 1990s under support from the Bank's Public Sector
Reform Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 3362-AR)) and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3558-AR)), and through technical assistance and
training from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (NYFed) and the US
Office of the Comptroller and the Currency (OCC). SEF now has a staff
of around 500. The staffing of the Supervision Division was increased
as of July 1994 from 160 to approximately 300, organized into six on-
site inspection groups specializing in different types of financial
institutions   The managers of these inspection groups were hired
through an executive search from international accounting firms and are
being paid competitive salaries. One hundred and ten newly trained bank
examiners who were hired out of 2,000 applicants in 1994 replaced 100
retiring examiners. Present policies provide for full on-site
inspections every year for the larger and more risky banks and every
eighteen months for other banks, monthly off-site inspection reports for
all banks, and daily supervision of distressed banks.
XVI.      Distressed Bank Resolution Procedures.    Policies to resolve
distressed banks include: (i) early identification of problems, (ii) a
set of remedies related closely to the severity of the problem and the
degree of cooperation of existing managers/owners, and (iii)
- 5-



minimization of court-ordered liquidation which is a time-consuming and
costly process. Broadly the process can be divided into two stages. In
the first stage, SEF holds the primary responsibility for identifying
problems from its routine oversight procedures and resolving them
through administrative remedies. In the second stage, in which the
problems are more acute, BCRA resolves them through liquidity support;
suspension of the operations of a bank; recapitalization, merger, or
acquisition; or liquidation of the institution.
XVII.     Consolidation of the Banking System. It is generally
acknowledged that Argentina has an excessive number of banks, with
widely different sizes and cost structures. Consolidation of the
banking system started before December 1994 and has accelerated
considerably since then. The profile of the sector is likely to change.
First, the ongoing strain on provincial finances and the poor financial
situation of provincial banks will trigger further privatization or
closures of these banks. Most wholesale banks with a single branch and
limited retail depositor base are likely targets for takeovers. The
cooperative banks have several weaknesses: highly regional and poorly
diversified portfolios, strong affiliation with specific clientele which
weakens their portfolio, high costs, and inadequate capacity to raise
capital. These cooperative banks are therefore merging/disappearing
quickly and are already down to 20 by end April 1995 from 39 in August
1994. The smaller private banks also lack economies of scale and
loyalty of depositors, and face higher cost of attracting deposits.
They would be forced to either merge or be acquired.
XVIII.     If the authorities continue to implement the prudential norms
forcefully, the number of Argentine banks in the coming five years may
be halved from about 160 at the beginning of 1995. The surviving banks
may comprise 30 foreign banks, 5 to 10 cooperative banks, 5 to 10
provincial/federal banks, 5 wholesale banks, a dozen or more first-tier
private banks with national branch networks and about 20 second-tier
banks with smaller national, or multi-provincial presence. Such
consolidation will still leave Argentina with proportionately many more
banks than in Mexico, Chile or Brazil, and thus is not likely to reduce
competition substantially. The two largest public banks would have
control of one third of the market share, and two or more foreign banks
would operate with a significant retail franchise. The retrenchment
would force the banks to cut costs, rationalize their branch networks
and introduce better technology. However, at present only about six of
the banks are publicly listed, and progress in terms of greater public
shareholding, reduction of family controls and professionalization of
top management will take longer.
The Proposed Loan
XIX.      Loan Objectives.   The purpose of the loan is to provide
balance of payments support to the Argentine Republic in the aftermath
of the regional crisis that has abruptly curtailed the country's access
to foreign capital. The foreign exchange is needed to help reduce the
severity of inevitable import compression now underway in Argentina.
The country's dependence on official flows has increased dramatically in
1995, and these sources will account for the bulk of capital inflows.
- 6 -



XX. At the same time, the loan will support the Government's ambitious
program of bank reform. That program has the following principal
objectives:
(a) to hasten the process of consolidation of a fragmented private
banking sector;
(b) to improve the financial structure of a distressed banking
sector by encouraging acquisitions, mergers, and
restructurings; and
(c) to contribute to the restoration of confidence in the banking
system.
XXI.      Loan Description.   A fast-disbursing fixed-rate US dollars
single currency loan of US$500 million is proposed. The loan would have
a repayment period of up to 15 years; and each semester's disbursements
would have a maturity of 12 years from the rate fixing date, including
3 years' grace. The loan would disburse in three tranches in accordance
with conditions covering macroeconomic and financial sector policies.
The Borrower is the Argentine Republic and the implementing agencies are
the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services and the Central
Bank of Argentina. Counterpart funds would be made available to the
Bank Capitalization Trust Fund (BCTF). All three tranches would be
disbursed in accordance with policy conditions; however, the second and
third tranches would also require the achievement of a specified level
of US$167 million of eligible Trust Fund recapitalization transactions
in accordance with principles agreed between the Government of Argentina
and the Bank.
XXII.     Counterpart funds will be used by the BCTF for
recapitalization and debt refinancing of liabilities in order to render
a bank receiving BCTF assistance fully able to meet all prudential
capital requirements. Financing will be provided in accordance with
principles agreed with the Bank for three possible kinds of
transactions: (a) acquisitions by qualified banks of weaker or
distressed banks or acquisitions of parts of insolvent banks which have
undergone BCRA suspension and procedures of article 35 bis of the LFE;
(b) mergers among qualified banks where at least the dominant merger
partner is rated "3" on the CAMEL rating or its functional equivalent
and has the managerial capacity and capital adequacy to undertake the
transaction; or (c) a restructuring of a bank, deemed by the SEF to have
fully adequate tier one capital, willing to both match any BCTF
subordinated loans dollar-for-dollar with new ownership capital, and
follow an institutional development plan to improve its management and
operations.
XXIII.    Financing.   Potential demand for financing of
acquisitions/mergers is difficult to predict. At the peak of the
crisis, some 80 private financial institutions (banks, finance
companies, and savings and loan associations) with assets valued at
US$14 billion were recipients of extraordinary liquidity assistance, and
many of these are still candidates for recapitalization, acquisition or
merger. The banking sector's potential demand for funds is estimated to
be in the range of US$2.0 to 2.5 billion. This includes about US$1.6
- 7 -



billion of refinancing of Central Bank advances as well as US$350 to 870
million to meet identified or potential capital or provisioning
shortfalls. For only those banks currently being assisted by the BCRA,
total potential demand for financing is more likely to be in the US$1.8
to 2.1 billion range, using conservative estimates. Some of this
demand--the tier one equity requirements--could be met by the acquiring
banks themselves. Trust Fund resources are authorized to total US$2.5
billion, reflecting the proceeds of domestic and foreign bond that will
be in place by July 1995 (the "Argentina bonds" placed among domestic
and foreign investors), and the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan of
US$500 million. Thus, the Bank would provide a maximum 20 percent of
Trust Fund resources.
XXIV.      Implementation.  Loan supervision will follow the principles
of the Bank's new supervision strategy, with appropriate use of
resources in the field. Loan supervision will take the form of
monitoring Argentina's new system of supervision and distress resolution
for the private banking system. In addition to an ex-post review of
Trust Fund transaction, for purposes of tranche release, annual audit
reviews of the Trust Fund's operations are required. Close contact will
be maintained with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which is
providing technical assistance to the Superintendency of Banks in the
areas of supervision and prudential regulation. The Bank and the
government will retain the option to either redesign or augment the
existing Technical Assistance Loan for Capital Markets Development (Loan
3710-AR), should the need for additional technical assistance become
necessary. Loan supervision will include review of the policies and
operations of the Central Bank as they affect the use of the proceeds of
the loan. Detailed reporting requirements have been established to
enable the Bank to supervise this project effectively.
1/   Private banks received US$1,165 million of this amount.    This is in
addition to the BNA safety net lending of US$468 million, which was
financed by the more liquid private banks themselves.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving Project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 8 -



