Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6612-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED BANK REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
JUNE 29, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
Arg$1   =   US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCRA         =     Central Bank (Banco Central de la Reptiblica Argentina)
BCTF         =     Bank Capitalization Trust Fund
BHN          =     National Mortgage Bank (Banco Hipotecario Nacional)
BICE         =     Investment and Trade Bank (Banco de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior)
BNA          =     Banco de la Naci6n Argentina
CAMEL        =     Capital, Asset Quality, Management, Earnings and Liquidity
CAS          =     Country Assistance Facility
CIF          =     Cost, Insurance and Freight
CNV          =     National Securities Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Valores)
CPI          =     Consumer Price Index
EFF          =     Extended Fund Facility
FSAL         =     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GAAP               Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GDP          =     Gross Domestic Product
IDB          =     Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          =     International Monetary Fund
LFE          =     Law of Financial Entities
MERCOSUR           Southern Cone Trade Bloc (Mercado del Cono Sur)
NYFed        =     Federal Reserve Bank of New York
OCC          =     Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
OPP          =     Operating Principles and Procedures
P/E          =     Price/Earnings Ratio
PYMES        =     Small and Medium Enterprises (Pequenias y Medianas Empresas)
RWA                Risk-Weighted Assets
SEDESA       =     Deposit Insurance Corporation (Seguro de Dep6sitos Sociedad
An6nima)
SEF                Superintendency of Financial Entities (Superintendencia de Entidades
Financieras)
SOE          =     Statement of Expenditures
VAT          =     Value-Added Tax
WPI          =     Wholesale Price Index



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE ECONOMIC SETTING  ......                               .............. 1
A.   Economic Context .................... 1
B.      Recent Perfornance  ....................  2
C.   The Mexico Crisis .................... 3
II.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ......                                .............. 5
A. Background ..........                                                                5
1.     Structure of the Banking System  .......              ............ 5
2.      Resource Mobilization and Interest Rates  .....             ........ 6
3.      Adjustment of Commercial Banks ......                ............ 6
4.      Bank Regulation .............................  7
5.      Supervision   .............................    7
B.      The Recent Financial Crisis  ........                   ...........  8
1.   Deposits .................. 9
2.      Stock and Bond Markets ..................                               10
3.   Deposit and Lending Rates ................... 11
4.      Failed Institutions ........                                           . ................... 11
5.      Government Response to the Crisis ................. 12
6.      Deposit Insurance ............................ 13
7.      Future Structure of Banking ...................   13
C.      Capitalization and Consolidation of Private Banks .....              ........ 14
1.     Capitalization of Banks ........................ 14
2.      Consolidation of Private Banks .................... 14
3.      Selective Restructuring of Banks ................... 16
4.      Liquidation ................................ 17
D.     The Governnent's Distress and Failure Resolution Policies  .....    17
1.     Corrective Actions by the Superintendency ............ 17
2.      Resolution of Illiquidity or Insolvency  .....           .......... 18
3.      Liquidity Assistance  . ......................... 18
4.      Suspension ..............................   18
5.      Revocation of License and Liquidation  .....             .......... 18
6.      Loss Allocation  ............................. 18
This Report is based on the findings of a mission that visiLed Argentina in April 1995. Mission members included
Messrs. D. Leipziger and M. Carrizosa (Mission Leaders), H. Shah (Sr. Financial Sector Economist), D. Scott (Sr.
Financial System Specialist); M. Slough (Sr. Financial Specialist), R. Toro (Lawyer), S. Silverberg (Consultant) and
Messrs. A. de Juan and G. Caprio (Peer Reviewers). Ms. C. Bernard. Mr. 0. Grimes and Mr. G. T. Nankani are
the responsible Division Chief. Projects Adviser, and Department Director respectively, and Mrs. C. Coss is
responsible for its processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



E.    Restructuring with BCTF Financing .................... . 21
III.   THE PROPOSED LOAN ................................ 24
A.       Background  .................................... 24
1.    Past Bank Involvement ......................... 24
2.       The Bank's Response to the Current Crisis   ............ 24
B.   Loan Objectives ................................. 25
C.       Loan Description    ................................ 25
D.    Loan Conditions ......... ........................ 28
E.       Disbursement, Procurement, Accounting, and Auditing   ...                                ...... 31
F.    Loan Supervision ................................ 32
G.       Risks, Benefits, and Social and Environmental Impacts   ....                               ..... 32
1.       Risks      ...................................  32
2.    Benefits ................................. . 33
3.       Social Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34. . . . . . .34
4.        Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .34
IV. RECOMMENDATION ................                                                                                  34
ANNEXES
A.       Status of Bank Loans  .............................. 35
B.    Status of IFC Investments .......................... . 36
C.    Policy Matrix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3.8.. . . . . . . . . . . ... . .38
D. Key Macroeconomic Indicators.                                    .                ..                    39
E.       Key Financial Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
F.    Operating Principles and Procedures Governing BCTF Assistan
for Acquisition or Merger .......................... . 44
G.    Argentine Banking System Statistics .................... . 46
H.       Mergers and Acquisitions Among Argentine Private Banks  .....  .                                   . 53
I.       BCRA  Prudential Regulations  .........  .                         .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .     . 54
J.       Banking Supervision Procedures  . ....... .                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
K.    Summary of Differences Between BCRA Accounting Rules for Banks,
Argentina GAAP and United States GAAP  ......  .                             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 64
L.       Central Bank Restructuring, Closure, and Transfer Provisions   ....                                  . 66
M.        Financing Needs for Private Bank Restructuring  ......  .                           .  .  .  .  .  .     . 71
N.       The Bank Capitalization Trust Fund   .......  .                        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 74
0.       The Legal Provisions of the Deposit Insurance System   .....  .                            .  .  .     . 76
P.       Liquidity, Capitalization, and Classification of Private Banks  .....                              . 80
Q.       Illustrative Components for Institutional Development Plan   .....  .                              . 88
R.    Draft Letter of Development Policy .................... . 90
MAP: IBRD No. 26842



ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:                The Argentine Republic
Beneficiaries:           Private Commercial Banks
Amount:                  US$500 million
Terms:                   The loan is proposed to be a fixed rate single currency
loan in US dollars, with a maturity of up to fifteen years.
Each semester's disbursements would have a maturity of
12 years from the rate fixing date, including 3 years'
grace. The interest payment dates are August 15 and
February 15, with the first expected rate fixing rate on
August 15, 1995.
Objectives:              The purpose of the loan is to provide balance of payments
support to the Argentine Republic in the aftermath of the
regional crisis that has abruptly curtailed the country's
access to foreign capital. At the same time the loan will
support the Government's ambitious bank reform program.
That program has the following principal objectives: (i) to
hasten the process of consolidation of a fragmented private
banking sector; (ii) to improve the financial structure of a
distressed banking sector in the context of acquisitions,
mergers and restructurings, and (iii) to contribute to the
restoration of confidence in the banking system.
Description:             A fast disbursing loan is proposed. The loan would
disburse in three equal tranches in accordance with
conditions noted in the Policy Matrix (Annex C).
Counterpart funds would be made available to the Bank
Capitalization Trust Fund. Release of the second and third
tranches would also require the achievement of US$167
million of transactions by the Trust Fund in accordance
with principles agreed between the Government of
Argentina and the Bank (Annex F).
Benefits and Risks:      Project benefits include the restoration of confidence in the
private banking sector, which has been badly battered by
the events following the Mexico crisis which resulted in a
massive outflow of deposits. While the situation has now



stabilized, many banks are in financial difficulty. The
new failure resolution approach being adopted by the
Government, and the Bank Capitalization Trust Fund
operation that the project helps finance offers the
opportunity for an orderly consolidation process. The
vehicles are recapitalization and refinancing for banks
willing to accept the requirements of this Trust Fund.
The borrower expects the US dollar single currency loan
terms to facilitate improved debt management, and the
fixed interest rate to protect against possible market
interest rate increases after the loan is fully disbursed.
The principal risk to the project remains macroeconomic,
insofar as the economic situation in Mexico, and, more
generally, Latin America remains unsettled and the
Argentine economy continues to be vulnerable. This could
result in a further loss of confidence, a deeper economic
crisis, and a renewal of deposit flight. To the extent that
the financial sector can be strengthened by recently
announced government measures, including a stronger
failure resolution mechanism, that risk can be and has
been effectively lowered. Macroeconomic risks have been
reduced by the adoption of a very strong fiscal program,
aimed at producing a sizeable surplus this year, and by
continued prudent and effective economic management.
The other project risk is a deterioration in the integrity of
the distressed bank resolution framework. This risk is
being addressed by the authorities through significant
changes in legislation, a clear commitment to improve the
quality of banking supervision, and the creation of the
Bank Capitalization Trust Fund to facilitate the
restructuring of the banking system.
Poverty Category:        Not applicable
Estimated Disbursement:  The loan would be disbursed in three equal amounts
against import documentation, and the counterpart
proceeds will be used by the Bank Capitalization Trust
Fund. Disbursements would be conditioned upon a
satisfactory macroeconomic performance and financial
sector policies to be described in the Letter of
Development Policy, satisfactory operation of the Trust
Fund, and, for the Second and Third Tranches, the
achievement of at least US$167 million in eligible



transactions. These transactions will be subject to ex-post
review in accordance with agreed benchmark criteria.
Schedule of Disbursements:
US million      US million
Bank FY           96           97
Annual            167          333
Cumulative        167          500
Financing Plan:
US million
World Bank                500
Argentine Government    2J000
2,500
Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Project Number:          AR-PA-40904






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED BANK REFORM LOAN
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO US$500 MILLION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed adjustment loan to the Argentine Republic to support private bank reform to
the Argentine Republic for the amount equal to US$500 million, with the aim of
consolidating and strengthening the financial sector. The loan would be a fixed rate
single currency loan in US dollars, with a maturity of up to 15 years.
I. THE ECONOMIC SETTING
A.   Economic Context
2.    Four years have passed since Argentina, emerging from the severe economic
crisis of 1989-90, adopted the Convertibility Plan in April 1991. This innovative plan
restructured Argentina's economic landscape. From extreme hyperinflation, the
country moved relatively quickly to an annual inflation rate of 3.9 percent in 1994.
Output and productivity increases have been remarkable for the last four years, with
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth averaging 7.7 percent. The initial
consumption-led boom has matured into a healthy pattern of investment and export-led
growth. Privatization of state assets has been far-reaching, and much more successful
than expected. As a result of the economic recovery, poverty levels have declined
significantly, although economic restructuring with a rigid labor market has resulted in
increased unemployment, about 12 percent of the labor force by late 1994. To deal
with problems caused by an initially overvalued exchange rate, the Government
launched a number of microeconomic reforms, particularly in labor legislation, with the
aim of reducing labor costs and increasing productivity. The result, plus exchange rate
developments in Brazil, have allowed export expansion to be strong in recent years and
to underpin growth.
3.    The Convertibility Plan was part of a comprehensive reform program at the
national levelP' including reforms of the state and financial institutions, privatization,
and extensive market liberalization. While fiscal adjustment has occurred at the federal
level, provincial fiscal deficits persist, mainly because of the continued inability of
1/    Past Bank support for this program has entailed various operations in support of financial sector
adjustment, capital market development, privatization, and modernization of the public sector.



provincial governments to contain current expenditures and sufficiently increase their
own-source revenues. The combined fiscal deficit of the provinces was equal to 0.7
percent of GDP in 1994. In this context, public provincial banks were extremely
vulnerable, as they could obtain no relief from provincial governments. This has
allowed the Government to move forcefully, with World Bank assistance, to privatize
and/or liquidate the great majority of the provincial banks. On May 4, 1995, the Bank
approved a Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878-AR) in the amount of
US$500 million equivalent.
B.   Recent Performance
4.    With the dynamic evolution of the economy, demonstrated by a shift in
consumption to export-and investment-led growth, GDP in 1993 and 1994 grew by 6
and 7.1 percent, respectively. Gross fixed investment reached 20 percent in 1994,
associated with increased national and foreign savings. Exports, which were affected
by declining international prices in 1992-93, rose by 20 percent in 1994, with
manufactured goods exports exhibiting particular buoyancy, growing at an average of
27 percent in 1993-94. Better international prices for grains and improved economic
conditions in Brazil contributed to export growth. In 1994, imports grew at the fast
pace of 27 percent. Imports of capital goods led the expansion, indicative of the
acceleration in investment and the restructuring of the economy. Financing trade and
current account deficits was not difficult, given Argentina's improved access to
international financial markets during 1993 and 1994. During the first two months of
1995, exports rose by 35 percent, while imports remained approximately at the
previous year's level.
5.    With the increased accumulation of international reserves, and the reduction in
bank reserve requirements earlier in 1993, monetary aggregates expanded at a fast
pace. Bank credit also grew at a fast rate, reflecting the sub-par, but rapidly
improving, monetization of the economy. Interest rates on peso deposits declined from
25 percent in December 1992 to 9 percent by early December 1994, just before the
Mexico crisis began. Interest rate spreads, although also declining, remained high,
indicative of the continued segmentation and shallowness of the financial system.
Towards the end of 1994, approximately half of Argentina's financial assets were
dollar-denominated, and interest rates and spreads on dollars were much lower than
those for peso-denominated assets. Continued capital inflows sustained the growth in
aggregate demand. Liquid international reserves at end-November 1994 stood at
US$14.5 billion, a significant increase since the end of 1992. Nevertheless, the general
rise in dollar interest rates, which started in early 1994, produced a deceleration in
reserve accumulation and credit expansion in the first three quarters of 1994. The
government's fiscal position remained prudent, however, with rough balance in its
consolidated accounts achieved in 1994. The Government remains committed to
maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework, as described in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex R).



-3-
C.   The Mexico Crisis
6.    Argentina was particularly vulnerable to the events in Mexico due to its
relatively heavy reliance on foreign capital inflows (financing in 1994 an estimated
current account deficit of 3.6 percent of GDP), the inflexibility of its exchange rate
regime, and the need for a strong financial system under the Convertibility Plan.
Compared to Mexico, however, Argentina enjoyed several advantages: (a) its current
account deficit was less than half that of Mexico; (b) it had stable political and
economic leadership; (c) its level of international reserves remained high; (d) public
debt maturities were not concentrated in the short-term spectrum of the market; and (e)
many of its structural reforms--privatization, governmental reform, domestic market
liberalization, and foreign investment--were deeper. Nevertheless, Argentina could not
escape the effects of Mexico. Its stock and bond markets suffered precipitous losses,
and, given its exchange rate system, the Central Bank lost more than US$5 billion of
its reserves between December 1994 and end March 1995.
7.    Partly generated by memories of past confiscations of deposits, the disruption of
The Mexican economy triggered a banking crisis. Loss of confidence led depositors to
withdraw a total of about US$8 billion from the banking system, thereby causing a
major liquidity crisis. As a result, interest rates increased to levels unprecedented since
the onset of the Convertibility Plan, and in March 1995, the banking system was on the
brink of a fatal run on deposits. The Central Bank, converted into a currency board in
1991, was rigorously constrained in its ability to provide liquidity.
8.    The Government reacted forcefully to the crisis. During February and March
1995, it took courageous measures to reestablish a fiscal surplus by cutting
expenditures on, inter alia, export subsidies, public sector wages, and social security
expenditures, while raising Value-Added Tax (VAT) rates and other taxes and
eliminating many tax exemptions. These measures are expected to yield some US$6.3
billion, about 2 percent of GDP, during the remainder of 1995. Swift action by
Congress in approving unpalatable emergency measures added to their credibility. The
Government intends to maintain strong macroeconomic management under an IMF-EFF
program, which was extended to June 3, 1996, with an increased amount of US$2.4
billion.
9.    As the Government announced these measures in mid-March 1995, it also
assembled an international financial package of approximately US$11 billion in support
of the Convertibility Plan. About US$5.4 billion would come from the IMF, the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), and the World Bank; with an additional US$800
million from the Eximbank of Japan; over US$2 billion from two large bond issues;
and US$2.4 billion is expected from projected asset sales. As a result, by early April
1995 financial markets showed signs of stabilization and recovery, and appear to have
become firmer. Not only did the authorities react firmly to the crisis on the eve of



- 4 -
presidential elections by suspending insolvent banks, but they have also received strong
political support in Congress, where financial reform legislation was approved swiftly
and the mechanism for crisis resolution was rapidly put into place.
10.   The Mexican crisis brought to light important lessons for Argentina. It
highlighted the extent of the economy's reliance on volatile capital flows; revealed the
need for a strong financial system, given the Central Bank's limited lender of last
resort capabilities; reemphasized the need to sustain the credibility of the economic
program; and clearly illustrated the difficulties of a fixed exchange system in times of
generalized crisis. The Government's forceful and rapid reaction to the crisis has
reduced concerns about future domestic policies, but the external environment remains
uncertain. Although the initially strong negative reaction of financial markets to the
Mexican crisis has been partially abated, a clear reluctance to renew significant flows
of capital towards emerging markets remains, particularly flows to Latin America.
Moreover, there continues to be a general lack of market discrimination between
countries in the region. Even under an optimistic scenario, in which the principal
countries affected by the crisis adopt appropriate economic policy measures to
reestablish credibility in the eyes of international investors, access to international
financial markets may only be slowly reestablished, and capital inflows are likely to
remain well below those observed in previous years for quite some time.
11.   If international capital market access remains narrowly constrained, which
appears to be the case, net capital inflows, even with the enhanced assistance of
multilateral organizations, may be barely positive in 1995. This compares to capital
inflows of US$10.5 billion in 1994. The net result will be severe import compression
in 1995 with import levels at least 10 percent lower in real terms (compared to 1994),
and a severely reduced current account deficit of possibly 1.2 percent of GDP,
approximately one third of the deficit in 1994. In this scenario, the bulk of capital
inflows will come from official sources. Furthermore, to achieve this adjustment in the
external accounts, economic activity would decelerate sharply, an unfortunate outcome
in light of the already high rates of unemployment.
12.   The recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No 14278-AR),
discussed at the Board on May 4, 1995, highlighted the very low growth prospects for
1995 resulting from the strong fiscal program necessitated by the crisis. This
heightened level of economic uncertainty has put further stress on financial markets and
has retarded the return to normal asset values in the banking system. Although the
inflow of IMF resources has aided in the restoration of reserve levels, Central Bank
reserves are at least 20 percent below their pre-crisis level and the system is still
vulnerable to ebbs in confidence. The need for balance of payments support is noted in
the CAS (see paras. 46-47), and quick disbursing assistance to the Government's
program of bank reform is fully consistent with those circumstances.



II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Background
13.    Structure of the Banking System. Argentina's financial sector consists chiefly
of commercial banks. This is a result of Argentina's Law of Financial Entities (LFE)
which allows banks to extend a full scope of financial services. Of a total of 203
financial institutions existing in December 1994, 168 were commercial banks which
accounted for 98 percent of total financial sector assets. The remaining 35 banks were
finance companies or savings institutions that do not offer checking account services.
As of April 15, 1995 the number of commercial banks had shrunk to 140, owing to 15
mergers, principally among the cooperative and regional retail banks. The banking
system as of that date included three federal public banks (Banco de la Naci6n
Argentina (BNA), Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BHN), and Banco de Inversi6n y
Comercio Exterior (BICE), 29 provincial/municipal banks (three of which have been
privatized); 57 national private banks (including the formerly federal Caja Nacional de
Ahorro y Seguros, privatized in 1992), 31 foreign private banks, and 20 cooperative
banks. Table 1 below indicates the share in total assets, loans, and deposits of the
banks. Overall, private banks (including cooperatives) accounted for about 55 percent
of total assets, and 59 percent of total deposits as of February 1995. The 10 largest
private banks21, each with assets over US$1 billion, accounted for between 28 and 30
percent, respectively, of total assets, loans and deposits (Annex G provides bank-level
detail).
Table 1: Breakdown of Total Assets, Loans and Deposits
as of 2/28/95 (%)                          |
Type of Bank         Total Assets     Loans           Deposits
.            ;~~1.
Federal                          21.2           18.8             14.9
Provincial/Municipal             22.1           22.9             24.7|
National Private                 30.7           31.8             32.1
Foreign                          16.9           17.0             17.9
Cooperatives                      7.4            8.2              9.4
Sub-Total B:aks                  98.3           98.7             99.0
FXinance Companies                1.5            1.1              0.8
Credit Unions                     0.2            0.2   _  _       0.2
Total System        1O0~~~~~~~G     100.0          .100.0
2/     These are: Galicia, Rio, Frances, Cr6dito Argentino, Roberts, Quilmes (domestic) and Citibank, Boston,
Deutsche and BN Lavoro (foreign).



- 6 -
14.    Resource Mobilization and Interest Rates. Until 1990, financial deepening in
Argentina decreased as a result of declining confidence in the domestic currency and
other financial assets. Successive episodes of hyperinflation and outright asset
confiscations in the early 1980s and later in 1990 discouraged investors and depositors
from holding domestic financial assets. Since 1990, the Government has sought to
increase mobilization of financial resources and thereby contain the cost of capital to
meet the anticipated expansion of demand. Macroeconomic stabilization and growth
policies were very successful in increasing resource mobilization, at least until the end
of 1994. With greater interest rate stability and higher growth, currency and bank
deposits increased from an average of 5 percent of GDP in 1990 to 19 percent in 1994
(see Figure 1 and Annex E). The policies were further successful in increasing
corporate equity and bond issues. Corporations, including commercial banks, raised an
impressive US$9.9 billion in equity issues and registered US$6.5 billion in bond issues
during 1990-1993. Finally, increased resource mobilization reduced lending rates
(Figure 2), from 52 percent at the onset of the Convertibility Plan in April 1991 to 23
percent in November 1994 (see Annex E).
15.   Adjustment of Commercial Banks. Macroeconomic stabilization, financial
sector policies, and improved regulation and supervision encouraged banks to become
more efficient. First, the Convertibility Law established a firm constraint on the
Central Bank's capacity to extend credit to commercial banks. The constraint on
BCRA lending chiefly affected public banks, where financing declined from about 160
percent of deposits in 1990 to zero in 1994. Central Bank financing of private banks
amounted to only 5 percent of deposits in 1990 and declined to zero in 1992. The
constraint on the Central Bank lending was the chief condition persuading public banks
to adjust and privatize"'. The provincial authorities could no longer afford to own
loss-making banks when their own budgets were severely strained and bail-out
financing from the Central Bank was no longer available.
16.      Second, as a result, stabilization increased the capacity of commercial banks to
mobilize deposits and bonds, and reduced reserve requirements (to 43 percent)
increased their lending capacity. The increased intermediation capacity permitted banks
to reap economies of scale. Furthermore, with lower inflation and increased
availability of credit, intermediation spreads declined, from an average of 27 percent
per year in April 1991, to 11 percent per year in November 1994; this decline in
spreads put competitive pressure on banks to reduce costs. With increased resource
mobilization and competitive pressure, financial sector productivity (the ratio of sector
3/     The Federal Government has privatized a major national bank, the Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguros,
sold with support from the Bank's Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Ln. 3558-AR), and liquidated
the Banco Nacional de Desarrollo, also supported by the Bank's FSAL. Provincial governments are
slowly following suit; with one provincial bank (La Rioja) liquidated and three others (Chaco, Corrientes,
and Entre Rios) privatized, and with more to be liquidated/privatized under support from the Bank's
Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878-AR) approved on May 4, 1995.



GDP to employment) increased by 180 percent between 1990 and 1994 and operational
costs declined from 13 percent of total assets in 1990 to 8 percent in 1994#'.
17.   Consolidation in the banking system, which proceeded at a fast pace following
the financial crisis of the early 1980s, slowed after 1990. Following a decline from a
high of 214 banks (35 public and 179 private) in 1980 to 165 (33 public and 132
private) in March 1991, the number of banks stabilized. Nevertheless, the larger
institutions gained in market share. As discussed below, as a result of lower deposit
growth since 1994, the pace of commercial bank consolidation has resumed and is
expected to continue during the foreseeable future, stimulated further by the flight to
quality of deposits during the recent crisis.
18.   Bank Regulation. Prudential regulations of the BCRA cover: (i) capital
adequacy and minimum capital requirements; (b) reserve requirements; (c) loan
classification and loan-loss provisioning; (d) operations with affiliated companies; (e)
consolidation; (f) internal and external auditing; and (g) diversification of credit risk
(see Annex I). Minimum capital requirements for commercial banks are subject to risk
ratings based on normal CAMEL criteria. Minimum capital requirements were set at
11.5 percent of risk-weighted assets (adjusted by the CAMEL-based risk rating) as of
January 1995. These include a minimum of about 8 percent of risk-weighted assets in
tier one (equity) capital. Portfolio classification has been changed from a classification
system based primarily on guarantees to one reflecting a borrower's financial situation
and repayment capacity. Provisioning requirements are determiined both by portfolio
quality and by the guarantee arrangements. Details on loan classification and
provisioning are given in Annex I. As of December 1994 the sub-normal portfolios in
public and private banks were 33 percent and 10.3 percent, respectively.
19.   Supervision. Together with the improvement in prudential regulation,
enforcement capacity is being strengthened steadily. The Superintendency of Financial
Entities (SEF)'s capabilities have been improved during the 1990s under support from
the Bank's Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 3362-AR)) and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3558-AR)), and through technical assistance and
training from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (NYFed) and the US Office of
the Comptroller and the Currency (OCC). SEF now has a staff of around 500. The
staffing of the Supervision Division was increased as of July 1994 from 160 to
approximately 300, organized into six on-site inspection groups specializing in different
types of financial institutions (see Annex J for a full description of the enhanced
supervision program which is now in effect). The managers of these inspection groups
were hired through an executive search from international accounting firms and are
being paid competitive salaries. One hundred and ten newly trained bank examiners
who were hired out of 2,000 applicants in 1994 replaced 100 retiring examiners.
4/    The Argentina: Capital Markets Report, dated December 1994, contains a fuller discussion of these issues.
(Report No. 12963-AR)



20.    About 84 financial institutions have undergone full inspections during the past
nine months, and off-site surveillance of all banks is undertaken monthly. On-site
inspections include a CAMEL rating of the institution, which is used for determining
capital requirements and will be used for assessing deposit insurance fees. Despite the
increased burden placed by the need to monitor troubled institutions as a result of the
crisis, SEF expects to complete examination of all institutions by September 1995. The
capacity of the Superintendency to react to crisis situations has improved significantly,
although no regulatory agency could have coped with the large, systemic crisis of the
first quarter of 19955'. As of March 1995 the financial situation of troubled financial
institutions was being monitored daily by a new reporting and analysis division, with
the help of upgraded information systems and following reporting requirements noted in
Attachment 1 to Annex J. The crisis has uncovered the offshore activities of several
banks and SEF is now requiring consolidated balance sheets on a line by line basis.
B. The Recent Financial Crisis
21.    Private banks in Argentina may be divided into five groups: (i) large domestic
retail banks with a national network; (ii) foreign banks; (iii) wholesale banks; (iv)
cooperative banks; and (v) regional retail banks. These are listed in Annex G, Table 6
and described in more detail in Annex P. The recent liquidity crisis has not only
reduced the deposits of the entire banking system and caused interest rates to rise
sharply, but has led to a significant change in the composition of deposits, liquidity and
assets among the various groups of banks. In essence, the large domestic banks and
foreign banks have gained market share at the expense of the wholesale banks,
cooperative banks and regional retail banks.
22.    The current financial crisis began in late November 1994 with the bankruptcy of
a small but trusted non-bank trader (ArgenBonex). An increasingly weak bond market
and the recognition of the high gearing of security traders led commercial banks to
finally cut credit to broker-dealers. These actions further softened the bond market.
The problem was greatly exacerbated after the December 20, 1994 devaluation in
Mexico with the massive withdrawal of foreign investors from Argentina and
elsewhere. The resulting losses sharply weakened the wholesale banks that had a
significant inventory of government securities. Banco Extrader, a small wholesale
bank, failed soon after the Mexican crisis. The wholesale banks typically had only one
branch, no retail deposit network, and relied primarily on corporate, inter-bank and
institutional deposits. Concerns about their solvency and liquidity led to rapid
5/     Although the regulation and inspection procedures have improved considerably in recent years, significant
improvements in enforcement are still needed. Some of the more important problems are well-disguised
insider lending, and continued accrual of interest of non-performing loans. To improve assessments of
systemic portfolio quality, classifications of individual borrowers are being compiled and standardized
across banks. Borrowers from banks having liquidity problems are being analyzed to detect insider
lending.



- 9 -
withdrawal of corporate and institutional deposits, sharp cuts in their interbank lines,
and withdrawal of their deposits from provincial banks.
Table 2: Recent Developments in the Argentine Banking Sector
11/30/94   12/20/94   12/31/94   1/31/95   2/28/95   3/31/95    4/15/95
Deposits in Commercial Banks (million)
Pesos                                          23,833    24,498    22,750    21,979    21,034    17,679    18,610
Non Pesos                                      24,039    24,625    24,427    24,802    24,501    23,575    22,836
Liquidity in the Banking System (million)
Cash                                            2,941      2,950     3,061     2,932     2,750     2,300     2,300
Balances with other Banks                       1,788        n/a      1,509    1,398       n/a       n/a        n/a
Balances with BCRA                              1,113        n/a      1,091     1,200    1,350     1,950     2,000
Marketable Government Securities                3,548        n/a     3,048     2,942       n/a       n/a        n/a
Deposit Rates (% p.a.): Peso
3 month                                           8.4       10.0       11.1     12.0      13.0      21.0      22.5
6 month                                           8.4        9.3        9.6      9.9      14.0      20.5      20.0
Deposit Rates (% p.a.): US$
3 month                                           6.0        6.0        6.3      6.5       7.0      11.0       11.4
6 month                                           6.0        7.4       7.3       6.8       7.7      10.0       10.9
Weighted Average Lending Rates (% p.a.)
Peso                                             21.0       25.0      35.0      40.0      45.0      60.0      60.0
US$                                              16.0       18.0      22.0      28.0      30.0      45.0      45.0
Prime Rates (% p.a.)
Peso                                             10.2       11.8       19.0     18.0      24.0      28.0      26.0
US$                                               8.5        9.3      12.0      12.0      15.0      21.0      20.0
Overdraft Rates (% p.a.)
Peso                                             25.0       35.0      35.0      45.0      45.0      65.0       65.0
International Reserves of BCRA                   14,318       n/a    15,663    13,792    13,077    10,197    11,685
(US$ million)
Merval Index                                       526        516        460      435       323       382        426
23.    The structural conditions of the banking sector--no deposit insurance, absence of
a significant lender of last resort, the ready conversion of pesos into dollars at parity,
and ease of capital movements--as well as the memories (para. 14) of many previous
financial crises -- fueled a mini-run on deposits and a flight to quality among many
depositors in the system. Simultaneously, interbank market access shrank down to 10
top private sector banks and the interbank rate increased sharply, pushing several
solvent but illiquid institutions to the brink of failure.
24.    Deposits.  Deposits in the Argentine financial system  stood at US$49.1 billion
on December 20, 1994 and dropped 16 percent to US$41.3 billion by end March 1995.
Not surprisingly, peso deposits fell faster, by 24 percent, accounting for some US$6.9



- 10 -
billion out of the total deposit losses of US$7.9 billion since December 20. Dollar
deposits fell about 7 percent over the same period, mainly in the month of March.
Annex E shows recent trends in deposits, loans and the M4/GDP ratio, all of which
indicate similar developments (also see Figure 1).
Figure 1
RATIO OF LOANS AND BROAD MONEY TO GDP
1991- 1995
19. D%
19.12%
eo~~~~~~ ow- TTIO%01 1
16. 20%14i'llll 
.1 0       %
14.0%II IIIII
6 0X  7mi  i l f4T I     l l   i XI g I m I II m I 0 II     I II
*       12.0%
7.0%
1991             1993             1995
1992             1994
Year anc IAMnth
0 M4/GDP
t Pank Loaan/GDP
Source: Central Bank Data
25.   Until February 1995, the biggest losers were the wholesale banks, with deposit
losses of over 70 percent and an insurmountable crisis of confidence. Many other
banks also suffered deposit withdrawals too large and too rapid to survive. Provincial
banks lost about 40 percent of their deposits; cooperatives lost one-third. Foreign
banks lost some overseas deposits but gained local deposits. Private retail banks lost
about 21 percent of their deposits. However, the ten leading private banks gained
market shares in deposits. Thus, the relative positions of different banks have been
dramatically transformed, and the process of consolidation has been accelerated.
26.   Stock and Bond Markets. Prices and trading volumes dropped sharply, while
volatility increased dramatically. The Merval index (the stock price index at the
Buenos Aires Stock Exchange) dropped from 516 on December 20, 1994 to 323 by
end-February 1995, but recovered to 426 by April 15, 1995. The bottom, around 320,
was reached in late February 1995. At that point, the index had fallen about 38



- 11 -
percent since the Mexico crisis, and currently is still around 18 percent below the pre-
crisis level. The market Price/Earnings (PE) ratio which was 18.3 in November 1994
fell to about 12 at the end of February 1995. The trading volume in Buenos Aires
Stock Exchange ran around US$12 to 13 billion monthly prior to December 1994, and
has steadily fallen to around US$1.5 billion monthly by late April 1995. No new
equity or eurobond issue, and only one 90-day local commercial paper placement, has
occurred since December 20, 1994. While several placements (up to US$1 billion
worth) of negotiable obligations are in the process of Comisi6n Nacional de Valores
(CNV) approval and preparation, it is unlikely that new issuance will occur any time
soon. With the trading volumes unusually low and volatility extremely high, most
issuance and even ordinary portfolio management decisions are in limbo.
27.   The prices of Government securities fell sharply due to the crisis as well as
generally rising interest rates. As a result, their secondary market yields have risen
significantly. In addition, the fragmented structure and varying liquidity of different
government securities have greatly amplified the differences between their secondary
market yields, which now range from 15-30 percent per year. Both the prevalence of
such yields in government paper and the absence of any discernible interest rate
benchmark contribute to a significant rise in the interest rate on commercial loans.
28.   Deposit and Lending Rates. Deposit and lending rates increased markedly in
response to strong demand and low liquidity (see Figure 2). The loss of deposits,
together with continuing liquidity and solvency problems, have made the banks very
conservative in new lending. While the prime corporations have not faced the worst
credit crunch, credit to Pequefias y Medianas Empresas (PYMES) has been sharply
curtailed. The closure of or contraction in activities of cooperatives and provincial
banks has also further constrained credit to PYMES. The sharp reduction in credit and
the high rates are both bound to result in a deterioration in portfolio quality, which can
be fully reflected only over a period of time.
29.   Failed Institutions. By late April 1995, two banks were in liquidation, and five
others and four financial companies were in a 30-day suspension period (cf. paras. 47-
48 on the suspension and liquidation process). Only Banco Finansur reopened
following an acceptable restructuring plan. As many as 46 private banks are possible
merger or acquisition candidates. Two new banks have been formed as mergers of
eight and seven cooperatives, respectively (see Annex H for details). Other typical
mergers include absorption of a cooperative bank by regional or other cooperative
banks, mergers between small regional retail banks and the stronger wholesale banks,
and acquisition of regional banks by the larger national banks seeking increased
presence in a particular region. Finally, many wholesale banks are being liquidated
and are continuing to sell their assets in order to repay their liabilities.



- 12 -
Figure 2
EFFECTIVE DEPOSIT AND LENDING RATES
AnnuaIrzed F%tog 1991-1995
100 D%
90.0%
ll. 0%
70.0%
50. 0%
50.D%
40.0%  -    ------
30.0%
20.0%
1992               1994
1993               1995
Yoar and Month
o PQ8O DLposlt Rate
+ Pe5n Lending Pate
Source: Data from Central Bank and Carta Econ6mica
30.    Government Response to the Crisis. Faced with this situation, the Government
struggled to provide liquidity. This effort included: (i) an initial "club" of five private
banks in early January 1995 each contributing about US$50 million to purchase illiquid
wholesale bank portfolios; and (ii) a transfer of 2 percent or about US$870 million of
the banks' reserves at the Central Bank into a special account with the Banco de la
Naci6n Argentina (BNA). BNA, acting as agent for and on instructions from the
Central Bank, lent the funds to wholesale and provincial banks at 16 percent p.a.
against collateral of bank assets and in some cases personal guarantees of the owners.
These funds were quickly exhausted. In February 1995, the Trust Fund for
Privatization was established to handle the workout of provincial banks.
31.    The Central Bank's capacity to act as a lender of last resort is constrained by
the Convertibility Law which requires it to limit its monetary liabilities below its
international reserves. As of April 1994, BCRA provided US$1.8 billion in
extraordinary liquidity assistance to all banks.O' Banks met further liquidity needs
through lower reserves requirements (about US$1.7 billion) and by exercising their
right to borrow a part of their required reserves (about US$1.3 billion), currently set at
6/     Private banks received US$1,165 million of this amount. This is in addition to the BNA safety net lending
of US$468 million, which was financed by the more liquid private banks themselves.



- 13 -
32 percent. The Central Bank's charter was amended to allow it to extend the maturity
of its liquidity rediscounts, thereby enabling it to lend for terms beyond 60 days and
above the previous ceiling of the net worth of a bank. However, under the restriction
of the Convertibility Law, BCRA has little capacity at present to provide further
liquidity. With available liquidity in the system virtually exhausted, and the increasing
likelihood that the extraordinary liquidity advances to many banks may not be repaid,
the government established a Bank Capitalization Trust Fund (BCTF) to handle the
recapitalization/restructuring of distressed banks (see Annex N).
32.   Deposit Insurance. In April 1995, the Government created a limited deposit
insurance scheme, effective April 17, to help restore confidence in a deposit system
badly shattered by the events of early 1995 (see Annex 0 for details). Deposits with
maturities of less than 90 days are insured up to US$10,000. A further US$10,000
insurance is provided for deposits exceeding 90 days maturity (total insurance on these
deposits is US$20,000 minus any claims on deposits below a 90-day maturity). These
insured amounts include the first right of claim that deposits of up to US$5,000 have
on the reserves of a failing bank. For term deposits, the new insurance applied to new
deposits after April 18, 1995. The insurer, a privately financed Deposit Insurance
Fund, would cover nearly 100,000 holders of fixed-term accounts, plus a large
majority of savings and current accounts, totalling about US$10 billion, or a quarter of
deposits. The fund will be financed by contributions from the banks. The fund is
likely to reverse the decline in small deposits, but less likely to encourage the return of
institutional deposits. The role of deposit insurance in the loss allocation process is
described in paras. 49-54.
33.   Future Structure of Banking. The long overdue trend towards consolidation
started before December 1994, and has accelerated considerably since then. The
profile of the sector is likely to change. First, the ongoing strain on provincial finances
and the poor financial situation of provincial banks will trigger further privatization or
closures of these banks. Most wholesale banks with a single branch and limited retail
depositor base are likely targets for take overs. The cooperative banks have several
weaknesses: highly regional and poorly diversified portfolios, strong affiliation with
specific clientele which weakens their portfolio, high costs, and inadequate capacity to
raise capital. These cooperative banks are therefore merging/disappearing quicky and
are already down to 20 by end April 1995 from 39 in August 1994. The smaller
private banks also lack economies of scale and loyalty of depositors, and face higher
cost of attracting deposits. They would be forced to either merge or be acquired.
34.   If the authorities continue to implement the prudential norms forcefully, the
number of Argentine banks in the coming five years may be halved from about 160 at
the beginning of 1995. The surviving banks may comprise 30 foreign banks, 5 to 10
cooperative banks, 5 to 10 provincial/federal banks, 5 wholesale banks, a dozen or
more first-tier private banks with national branch networks and about 20 second-tier
banks with smaller national, or multi-provincial presence. Such consolidation will still



- 14 -
leave Argentina with proportionately many more banks than in Mexico, Chile or
Brazil, and thus is not likely to reduce competition substantially. The two largest
public banks would have control of one third of the market share, and two or more
foreign banks would operate with a significant retail franchise. The retrenchment
would force the banks to cut costs, rationalize their branch networks and introduce
better technology. However, at present only about six of the banks are publicly listed,
and progress in terms of greater public shareholding, reduction of family controls and
professionalization of top management will take longer.
C. Capitalization and Consolidation of Private Banks
35.   Capitalization of Banks. To shed light on possible acquisition and merger
prospects, private domestic banks in Argentina, including cooperative banks, were
independently classified into five groups (A, BI, B2, B3 and C), using 14 rating
parameters measuring, inter alia, liquidity, solvency, capital adequacy, portfolio quality
and provisioning, profitability and operational efficiency. The detailed methodology
used for this exercise is described in Annex P. Figures 3 and 4 indicate the
distribution of private national banks and their assets by category. Banks in categories
A and B1, are clearly the most capable of acquiring weak banks, although some banks
in category B2 may also be suitable candidates for acquiring other banks or being
major merger candidates. Categories B3 and C contain most of the banks that are
under BCRA assistance and intensive surveillance.
36.   The capital shortfall in the domestic private banking system has been estimated
by comparing the figures for actual capital with those required by BCRA and making
adjustments for shortfalls between actual loan-loss provisioning and the classification of
the banks' loan portfolios according to the latest BCRA prudential regulations. The
likely capital shortfall is discussed in para. 66 and in greater detail in Annex M in the
context of anticipated acquisitions and mergers.
37.   Consolidation of Private Banks. The recent crisis has accentuated the fragility
of Argentina's smaller banks, and is likely to accelerate a process of consolidation
which was already underway. The changes in the BCRA Charter and banking
legislation will strengthen BCRA's role in orchestrating acquisitions and mergers.
From a capital viewpoint, the ten largest private banks would be best placed to act as
acquiring banks in merger transactions. The regional banks are widely perceived to be
overstaffed and inefficient, so an acquiring bank would branches and reduce staff
substantially to achieve economies of scale. Some large banks are undertaking
acquisitions, including acquisitions of selected assets and branches of regional banks.
The more likely acquirers are intermediate-size banks wishing to increase market share.
Overall, it is estimated that there is a possible set of 40 banks (rated A, B1 or B2)



- 15 -
Figure 3
PRIVATE NATIONAL BANKS
Distribution by RatIng - February 1995
30
28                                                     _ _ _ _ _
26
24                                                                    ___
22
20                                                                    ___
14
12  _ _ _
10
8
6
4
2
0        A
Ratlng Cntegory
Nujrber of Bnkls
Source: Mission estimates. Includes cooperative banks
Figure 4
PRIVATE NATIONAL BANKS
SharQ of Assets - FPbrudry 1995
45 O%
40.0%
35. 0%
30. 0%
25 0     
15. 0%   ___  ___
1D.D0%
5.D%
83
Rntlng Category
Share of A5sets
Source: Mission estimates. Includes cooperative banks.



- 16 -
that could contribute to the consolidation process by either acquiring or merging with
other banks. A small number of banks may also be capable of restructuring themselves
with BCTF assistance.
38.   One problem foreseen by potential acquiring banks is that immediately following
the takeover many of the acquired bank's depositors could withdraw their deposits.
This phenomenon is likely to occur because many of the smaller regional and
cooperative banks in the interior have been limiting or scheduling withdrawals. Only
after a period would deposits recover--and this would most likely occur if a larger bank
with a good name acquires the smaller bank. In the interim, the merged bank could
well suffer from liquidity difficulties. For this reason, the acquired bank would have to
be free of existing short term debts to the BCRA and BNA for past liquidity assistance.
The BCTF will therefore extend loans to refinance these obligations in the context of
consolidation transactions that restitute the liquidity and capital adequacy of the
acquired or consolidating banks.
39.   Mergers between the medium and small cooperative banks and regional retail
banks are more likely because they can strengthen themselves through economies of
scale and increased market power. However, such transactions--over ten of which have
occurred during the last six months--run the risk that merging several relatively weak
banks without strong management or upgrading staff and systems could merely create
larger weak banks. To prevent a failed merger SEF will require, that merging banks
redress shortfalls in capital requirements, that management is suitable, and that the
merged entity has a strong business base.
40.   In order to facilitate merger and acquisition program, the BCTF will provide
financial assistance. Acquiring banks will be offered access to subordinated convertible
loans from the Trust Fund to help meet tier two capital shortfalls in the acquired
bank(s) after deducting increased loan-loss provisions and other asset write-downs.
Such assistance should be subject to the acquiring bank meeting or exceeding tier one
(i.e., equity) capital requirements. The large, acquiring banks should be able to
maintain the required ratio of 2 to 1 between equity capital and tier two capital
(subordinated debt) without additional equity injections. The same will not necessarily
be true of mergers between smaller and medium sized banks, which may have to seek
new capital from their shareholders in addition to the debt provided by the Trust Fund.
41.   Selective Restructuring of Banks. In some cases, SEF can recommend to
BCTF that a bank be considered for restructuring, without undergoing a merger or an
acquisition. These cases will tend to be few, but where they exist, the eligibility
requirements will be strict with respect to the initial level of tier one capital. If BCTF
provides assistance in the form of subordinated loans, which count as tier two capital,
such assistance will only be given on a matching basis with additional ownership
capital. Moreover, the treated bank will agree to undergo an institutional diagnosis and
to prepare a business and institutional development plan which the SEF can monitor.



- 17 -
As with all banks receiving BCTF financing, the emerging bank will meet all
prudential capital requirements and will be free of regulatory forbearance.
42.   Liquidation. The Government is understandably concerned about the
occurrence of a large number of bank liquidations which could negatively affect
depositor and investor confidence in the Argentine financial system. Nevertheless it is
likely that there will be a number of smaller retail banks and wholesale banks which
will not find acquisition or merger partners. These banks probably belong to category
C in Figures 3 and 4. For some of these banks the eventual solution will be orderly
liquidation, with settlement of insured depositors' claims by the new deposit insurance
scheme, purchases of selected assets by interested banks (either with or without
matching liabilities) and the disposal of the residual balance sheet by a liquidator. It
will be in the interest of creditors that the residual balance sheet be as small as
possible, given the protracted delays and the legal fees involved in a court-administered
settlement. Two banks have recently started liquidation procedures.
D. The Government's Distress and Failure Resolution Procedures
43.   The focus of Argentine distress resolution policies is: (i) early identification of
problems, (ii) a set of remedies related closely to the severity of the problem and the
degree of cooperation of existing managers/owners, and (iii) minimization of court-
ordered liquidation which a time-consuming and costly process. Broadly the process
can be divided in two stages. In the first stage, SEF holds the primary responsibility
for identifying problems from its routine oversight procedures and resolving them
through administrative remedies. In the second stage, in which the problems are more
acute, BCRA would attempt to resolve them through liquidity support; suspension of
the operations of a bank; recapitalization, merger, or acquisition; or liquidation of the
institution.
44.   Corrective Actions by the Superintendency. The Superintendency monitors
compliance with prudential norms (see Annexes I and J for details of prudential norms
and supervision) from daily and monthly reports, off-site examinations, and annual
external auditors' reports.7' The largest 120 banks are subject to a full annual on-site
inspection and the remaining smaller 80 banks and finance companies are subject to a
similar inspection every 18 months. The banks which have received extraordinary
borrowings from the BCRA are subject to considerable on-site inspection and even
daily monitoring (see Annex J, Attachment 1 for the format of such daily reporting).
In April, some 80 banks were subject to daily reporting. The steps that SEF can take
to deal with problems identified in the course of monitoring are explained in Box A
below.
7/     The audit must give an opinion on compliance with the Central Bank's prudential requirements. The
Central Bank can disqualify and levy fines on auditors that fail to report a bank's non-compliance.



- 18 -
45.   Resolution of Illiquidity or Insolvency. More serious cases of insolvency or
illiquidity are dealt with as follows. Entities requiring such consideration are identified
either: (i) by one of the six specialized Inspection Groups when the corrective actions
described above do not rectify the problems; (ii) based on information provided the
Groups for Follow-up or Coordination or Financial System Analysis; or (iii) when an
entity requests extraordinary or repeated liquidity assistance from the BCRA. At this
point, BCRA may either provide liquidity assistance or suspend the bank's operations.
46.   Liquidity Assistance. BCRA evaluates requests for liquidity assistance on the
basis of deposits lost, amount of assistance requested, additional funding needs based
on projected cashflows, and guarantees and collateral offered. Until February 28,
1995, such liquidity assistance was available for a maximum of 30 days extendable to
60 days, and up to the net worth of the institution. Since then, Law 24,485 (see
Annex L) has amended the Charter of the Central Bank, to offer "extraordinary"
assistance beyond these ceilings. Apart from other collateral BCRA may request, the
law requires that liquidity advances be guaranteed by a controlling packet of shares.
47.   Suspension. If a bank is found to be in need of significant recapitalization,
merger or acquisition, or liquidation, it is placed in "suspension" for a period of 30 to
90 days to protect it from the creditors and to permit time for a workout. Suspension
may be invoked by the Superintendent, with the approval of the Chairman of the Board
of BCRA, or may be requested by the bank concerned (see Annex L). During
suspension, if the bank can present a plan for rehabilitation (typically recapitalization
with merger, acquisition or other changes in ownership) acceptable to BCRA,
suspension is removed and normal operations are resumed.
48.   Revocation of License and Liquidation. If an acceptable plan is not produced,
the bank's license is revoked and the bank will be liquidated. Prior to license
revocation, the Central Bank is now authorized (Article 35 bis of the Law of Financial
Entities (LFE)) to perform any required segregation of assets and liabilities and sell the
institution or sell a part of its assets and a corresponding amount of senior liabilities,
with the remaining liabilities to be repaid under administrative liquidation or
bankruptcy procedures.
49.   Loss Allocaton. Where asset values of a suspended bank exceed its deposit
liabilities, but not total liabilities, the Central Bank can now divide the bank's assets
and liabilities so that an acquiring bank assumes all deposit liabilities and a comparable
amount of unencumbered good assets. (Where liabilities are secured, creditors would
have access to the value of the collateral up to the amount of their claim.) The
remaining assets and unsecured, non-deposit liabilities (which have a lower creditor
priority than deposits) would then be transferred to the courts for liquidation.
50.   In those cases where the asset values of the suspended bank are less than deposit
liabilities, the Central Bank may still be able to effect a transaction in which the assets



- 19 -
BOX A         Problem Resolution by the Superintendency
1.    The six Inspection Groups of the Superintendency apply the following
four types of remedies: change of management, changes in banking practices,
increased capitalization by existing shareholders, and administrative fines and
restraints. Normally, these remedies would be exhausted before considering
extraordinary financial assistance from BCRA, suspension, or revocation of
operating license.
2.    Memorandum of Intent and Understanding. The Memorandum is a
formal agreement between the Directors of the non-complying bank and the
SEF. It specifies the actions and time-tables to correct infractions of law,
regulations, or to improve the financial strength of the entity. It is used
when the problems do not pose an immediate threat to the entity or its
stakeholder, and the management is cooperating in their resolution. The
Memorandum is not a legally binding contract, but non-compliance with it
results in more serious actions.
3.    Plan for Regularization and Improvement. While similar in content
to the Memorandum, the Plan is a legally enforceable instrument provided
for under the Law of Financial Entities (Article 34) and the Charter of the
Central Bank (Article 46). BCRA requires that the Plan be disclosed
publicly.
4.    Cease and Desist Order. Under Article 47 of the Central Bank
Charter, the SEF can issue a cease and desist order against a bank or its staff
which are in violations of the law, regulation, or a Plan for Regularization or
which are engaged in improper banking practices. Cease and Desist orders
are issued when the SEF judges the management unwilling or unable to
implement corrective measures prescribed. All cease and desist orders must
be made public.
5.    Disqualification. The Law of Financial Entities permits SEF to
disqualify a person from managing a financial entity for grave violations of
the law, pursuit of rash banking practices or personal gain, and violations of
cease and desist orders, if such conduct can harm the solvency of the entity,
stability of the system or the interest of depositors.
6.    Fines. BCRA can also impose fines on entities and persons for
violations of law, regulations, administrative orders or conditions imposed, or
for imprudent banking practices.



- 20 -
and a reduced depositor claim are transferred to an acquiring bank. This would require
an agreement whereby depositors would accept less than the full present value of their
claim. The Central Bank is now authorized to approve these agreements with
depositors so that their claims would be covered by the estimated value of the bank's
assets. This might involve a proportionate reduction in depositor claims, the
substitution of a long-term instrument for a portion of depositor claims, or some other
arrangement whereby a portion of depositor recovery is based on the successful
collection of troubled assets by the acquiring bank. In such a transaction the deposit
insurer would cover losses that would otherwise be borne by insured depositors, and
the insurer would assume any additional recovery claims that might be available to
insured depositors.
51.   In most such cases, it will be advantageous for uninsured depositors and the
deposit insurer to accept some potential loss in order to avoid liquidation, the delays in
recovery that would accompany liquidation, and the likelihood of a lower present value
recovery in liquidation. In those cases where a satisfactory compromise does not
develop or where there is no interested acquirer, the asset collections and eventual
distribution to creditors would be handled through the liquidation process. Insured
depositors would be paid by the deposit insurer, to the extent the insurer has funds, and
the deposit insurer and uninsured depositors would have an equivalent claim on
recoveries that would come ahead of the claims of unsecured non-deposit creditors.
52.   Where the liabilities of suspended banks exceed their assets, losses will be borne
first by shareholders and next by unsecured general creditors. Where assets are
insufficient to cover deposits, the deposit insurer will make insured depositors whole,
to the extent it has available funds. Losses that would accrue to depositors would be
shared on a pro rata basis between uninsured depositors and the deposit insurer. It
should be noted that each depositor has a priority claim of up to US$5,000 on the
reserve balances of the failing bank at the Central Bank. To the extent that such funds
are present, they will reduce the required outlay and (to some degree) potential loss of
the deposit insurer. Since the Deposit Insurance Fund has an interest in the outcome of
negotiations with regard to the transfer of deposit liabilities to an acquiring bank, it
needs to be included in those deliberations.
53.   In sum, when the assets of a failing bank are inadequate to cover all liabilities,
the shareholders are first to lose and the remaining creditors are paid according to the
following order of priorities-:
(i)    up to US$5,000 to depositors from the bank's reserve with BCRA;
8/     A discussion and some workout examples of partitioning of assets and loss allocations under different
scenarios are set out in Annex 0.



- 21 -
(ii)  secured creditors up to the amount of their security (any shortfall to be
claimed pari passu with unsecured creditors under (v) below);
(iii)  depositors pari passu with the deposit insurer (by right of subrogation)
for any claims paid;
(iv)   BCRA; and
(v)   unsecured general creditors (including labor and tax claims).
54.   This bank resolution mechanism was sorely tested in response to the recent
liquidity crisis triggered by the disruption of Mexico's economy. The mechanism has
worked, insofar as five banks have already been suspended and three more are in the
process of liquidation. Nevertheless, it was not designed to deal with a systemic
breakdown of confidence. For this reason and in light of the severity of the current
crisis, an additional mechanism was added to aid the resolution process.
E. Restructuring with BCTF Financing
55.   Law 24,485 significantly increases the authority and capacity of BCRA to deal
with distressed banks by permitting it to divide assets and liabilities for this purpose.
Simultaneously, the creation of the Bank Capitalization Trust Fund (BCTF) has
considerably augmented the capacity of the authorities to finance the merger or
acquisitions necessary for distress resolution. This Fund will be financed by an amount
equivalent to US$2.0 billion from the proceeds of the Argentina bonds recently issued
by the Government and would also received the counterpart funds (US$500 million)
from the proposed Bank loan. BCTF would extend medium-term loans to the qualified
acquiring banks or investors, to qualified merging banks, or to qualifying banks
sufficiently capitalized to be considered for restructuring and willing to undergo an
institutional diagnostic and follow-up plan. Under the proposed loan, the Government
has agreed with the Bank on the use of the BCTF's resources as governed by the
Operating Principles and Procedures of BCTF, agreed with the Bank. These principles
are summarized below.
Operatine Principles and Procedures Governing BCTF Assistance for
Acquisition or Merger
*     BCTF is established to facilitate and finance an orderly transfer of assets
and liabilities from weak banks to financially and managerially strong
banks. It will provide no financing without a strong prospect of the
bank's recovery.



- 22 -
*     BCTF will provide financing for acquisition of weak banks, or their
segregated assets and liabilities as determined by Article 35 bis of the of
Law Financial Entities on behalf of the Central Bank. BCTF will not
purchase or hold the same on its own account, except in exercise of its
collateral rights.
*     Typically, BCTF will finance acquisitions of banks that have received
extraordinary liquidity assistance from BCRA or BNA and are rated 4 or
5.
*     If necessary, BCRA request the audit of the bank to be sold prior to
BCTF financing, by an auditor acceptable to BCRA. Such an audit shall
be requested for the sale of whole or part of a suspended bank, on the
basis of Article 35 bis of the LFE. The auditor will offer an opinion
concerning the fair market value of the assets and liabilities to be sold
and will certify that insiders are not treated in a preferential manner.
-     To ensure financially sound and well-managed entities after acquisition
or merger, the acquiring banks must have a current rating of 1 or 2 and
comply with capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. In the case of
mergers, a bank rated 3 can be considered provided BCRA submits
evidence to verify the level of tier one capital, capital adequacy in light
of current asset values, the strength of management, and the business
viability of the merger entities. The Superintendency will assess and
verify that (i) the acquiring bank has the financial and managerial
capacity to undertake the transaction successfully, (ii) the financial risks
to BCTF of the transaction are acceptable, and (iii) the managers and
principal owners of the acquiring/merged entity meet the "fit and proper"
qualifications. Any 3-rated bank will submit a business development
plan within 60 days of receiving Trust Fund resources.
*     The BCTF may also undertake financing in the context of restructurings,
provided that the bank is eligible by virtue of having (a) minimum tier 1
capital requirements, (b) adequate management and business base, and
(c) agreeing to undertake an institutional diagnostic of its difficulties. In
receiving BCTF financing, the bank will have verified that it meets all
capital adequacy requirements without counting BCTF financing, that
BCTF funding will be matched one for one by new ownership capital,
and that it is willing to comply with an Institutional Development Plan to
be monitored by the SEF. BCTF loans for restructuring will not exceed
10 percent of the volume of resources available to the Fund.
*     Recapitalization (subordinated) loans will not exceed 25 percent of the
risk-weighted assets (RWA) for assets being acquired, 15 percent of



- 23 -
RWA for assets involved in the case of a merger, or 10 percent of RWA
for assets of a restructured bank. BCTF's secured loans will not exceed
the amount of outstanding loans from or on behalf of the BCRA. BCTF
assistance will require banks to repay all such extraordinary loans in the
terms agreed with BCRA.
*     BCTF financed transactions will use competitive and transparent
procedures for qualified bidders.
*     BCTF will only finance an acquirer in a qualifying acquisition or merger
transaction through either subordinated loans of 8 years maturity
(meeting tier two capital definition) and/or secured loans of up to 3
years. BCTF will determine the type of each loan and their maturities,
to ensure viability of the merged entity, and keep subordinated loans to
the minimum possible. BCTF will not provide direct equity/preferred
capital; however, both kind of loans may be convertible to equity at
terms fixed by BCTF. All refinancing of BCRA or BNA extraordinary
assistance will be done in conjunction with transactions described in
these principles.
*     To prevent continued dependence of acquiring/merging bank(s) on
official support, the restructuring plan will be adequately financed.
BCTF will obtain an opinion from the Superintendency that the
consolidated post-acquisition/merger bank can satisfy the normal
prudential regulations for capital adequacy, provisioning, portfolio
classification, liquidity, and interconnected lending.
3     Loans will be denominated in US dollars with an interest rate for merger
and acquisition recapitalization loans equal to at least the World Bank
rate plus a spread of 0.5-1.0 percent per year and for other
recapitalization loans and all refinancing loans equal to the cost of
Argentina bonds plus a spread of 0.5-1.0 percent per year.
*     The BCTF may on a case-by-case basis consider other transactions which
meet BCTF objectives, but these will require prior review by the World
Bank, and will in aggregate volume not exceed 5 percent of the
resources of the BCTF.



- 24 -
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Background
56.   Past Bank Involvement. The Bank has been actively engaged in the reform of
the Argentine financial sector since 1986. The dialogue intensified with the advent of
the Menem administration in 1989, when the Bank assisted the Government in drafting
the new Central Bank charter, developing organizational plans for the Superintendency
of Banks, and designing action plans for the reform of public banks. In the context of
this overall framework, the Government proceeded to institute major reforms during
the subsequent five years, supported by a series of Bank operations. Under the Public
Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 3362-AR), major reforms were carried
out in both the Central Bank and the Superintendency in areas of training of staff,
accounting, information systems, and organizational improvements. With the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3558-AR), approved in 1993, the Bank continued to
support reforms of the public banks, principally the national development bank, the
housing bank, and the national savings and insurance bank, and to strengthen the
regulatory environment.
57.   Over the past year the Bank has continued its dialogue with the Government in
the context of its Capital Markets Study (No. 12963-AR), which identified, inter alia,
two major problems in the banking sector: (a) the need to radically restructure,
privatize or liquidate loss-making provincial banks; and (b) the need for a consolidation
and strengthening of a relatively fragmented private banking sector. In the last six
months, both outcomes have emerged. Due to weaknesses in provincial public
finances, and precipitated by the Mexican aftershock, provincial public banks came
under unsustainable pressure. Although the Bank had already planned to deal with
some provinces in the context of the Provincial Reform Loan (Ln. 3836-AR), approved
in early 1995, the urgency of the situation and the political opportunity afforded by the
crisis to privatize provincial banks led to rapid preparation of the Provincial Bank
Privatization Loan, approved by the Board on May 4, 1995.
58.   The Bank's Response to the Current Crisis. In the aftermath of the Mexico
crisis, the Government has struggled to maintain confidence in the financial system,
despite major losses in deposits from the system and an exhaustion of its very limited
lender-of-last-resort (LOLR) capacity. The Bank announced its intention to provide an
additional US$1.3 billion of quick- disbursing assistance as part of a multilateral effort
involving the IMF, IDB, and the World Bank. The Eximbank Bank of Japan was also
quick to respond with a loan of US$800 million. This coordinated action aims to
augment rapidly official sources of capital in light of the abrupt cutoff of private flows
following the Mexican financial crisis and the resulting urgent need for balance of
payments support. The IMF is providing new funds equivalent to US$2.4 billion and
the IDB is matching the Bank's level of additional assistance. These funds are to be
provided as part of a strong program of fiscal strengthening that the Government had



- 25 -
already announced in the aftermath of Mexico and has further reinforced in the context
of the Fund program.
59.   In the framework of these measures, the Government of Argentina has requested
the assistance of the Bank in helping to support its program of banking reform. The
Government quickly established a Bank Capitalization Trust Fund to enable it to deal
with distressed banks and facilitate acquisitions and mergers in a manner that allows
failed or irretrievably weakened banks to exit the system without triggering a systemic
crisis of confidence. The Government is committed to financing the BCTF with an
amount equal to some US$2.0 billion9'. As part of loan preparation, the Bank has
provided advice in the areas of bank restructuring, failure resolution, and deposit
insurance. The Government's commitment to designing an improved failure resolution
system is also seen in its solicitation of advice from experts in the field and the high
priority attached to the establishment of a limited deposit insurance system. The
Government continues to value Bank involvement in assessing any future institutional
needs of the Superintendency.
B. Loan Objectives
60.   The purpose of the loan is to provide balance of payments support to the
Argentine Republic in the aftermath of the regional crisis that has abruptly curtailed the
country's access to foreign capital. The foreign exchange is needed to help reduce the
severity of inevitable import compression now underway in Argentina. The country's
dependence on official flows has increased dramatically in 1995 and these sources will
account for the bulk of capital inflows.
61.   At the same time, the loan will support the Government's ambitious program of
bank reform. That program has the following principal objectives:
(a)   to hasten the process of consolidation of a fragmented private banking
sector;
(b)   to improve the financial structure of a distressed banking sector by
encouraging acquisitions, mergers, and restructurings; and
(c)   to contribute to the restoration of confidence in the banking system.
C. Loan Description
62.   A fast-disbursing fixed rate US dollars single currency loan of US$500 million
is proposed. The loan would have a repayment period of up to 15 years; and each
9/    The Government successfully sold US$1.0 billion of domestic and US$1.0 billion of foreign bonds to help
finance BCTF. The bonds carry 3 year maturities and are priced over LIBOR.



- 26 -
semester's disbursements would have a maturity of 12 years from the rate fixing date,
including 3 years' grace. The Government of Argentina is eligible for single currency
loans as it has no unconverted VLR82 loans. The proposed US$500 million loan
represents (35.7 percent) of the FY96 lending program for Argentina of (US$1.4
billion). The loan would disburse in three tranches in accordance with conditions
noted in the Policy Matrix (Annex C) and in the subsequent section detailing Loan
Conditions. The Borrower is the Argentine Republic and the implementing agencies
are the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services and the Central Bank of
Argentina. Counterpart funds would be made available to the Bank Capitalization
Trust Fund and assurances to that effect are reflected in the Loan Agreement. All
three tranches would be disbursed in accordance with policy conditions; however, the
second and third tranches would also require the achievement of a specified level of
US$167 million of eligible Trust Fund recapitalization transactions in accordance with
principles agreed between the Government of Argentina and the Bank (Annex F). The
Borrower has requested that the loan be a fixed-rate US dollar single currency loan.
63.   Counterpart funds will be used by the BCTF for recapitalization and debt
refinancing of liabilities in order to render a bank receiving BCTF assistance fully able
to meet all prudential capital requirements. Financing will be provided in accordance
with principles agreed with the Bank for three possible kinds of transactions: (a)
acquisitions by qualified banks of weaker or distressed banks or acquisitions of parts of
insolvent banks which have undergone BCRA suspension and procedures of article 35
bis of the LFE; (b) mergers among qualified banks where at least the dominant merger
partner is rated "3" on the CAMEL rating or its functional equivalent and has the
managerial capacity and capital adequacy to undertake the transaction; or (c) a
restructuring of a bank, deemed by the SEF to have fully adequate tier one capital,
willing to both match any BCTF subordinated loans dollar-for-dollar with new
ownership capital, and follow an institutional development plan to improve its
management and operations (Annex Q).
64.   Trust Fund loans will be two types: (i) subordinated (convertible) loans of a
maturity of at least 5 years in an amount up to 10 percent (in the case of
restructurings), 15 percent (in the case of mergers), and 25 percent (in the case of
acquisitions of the risk-weighted assets involved in the transaction, all or part of which
will constitute tier two capital; and (b) secured loans of up to 3 years maturity of an
amount not to exceed the outstanding rediscounts and advances to the distressed bank
from or on behalf of the Central Bank. The recapitalization limits are set to provide
greater incentives for consolidation transactions. In addition, an overall cap of 10
percent of total BCTF resources has been set on financing of restructurings.
65.   The Operating Principles place ex-ante restrictions on the financial conditions of
banks to be assisted by the Fund in the context of acquisitions, mergers, or
restructurings (see para. 55). However, regardless of transaction, however all banks
receiving BCTF assistance must fully meet prudential capital and other BCRA



- 27 -
requirements. The Government has agreed that any forbearance granted to a bank will
be extremely limited and time-bound and will not relate to capital adequacy. Audits
are required for all transactions (see Annex K on Argentina is generally accepted
accounting principles); the BCRA has already instituted a system for selecting external
auditors for all suspended banks. The Trust Fund is expected to denominate its loans
in US dollars, charging a rate which corresponds to its borrowing costs plus a spread to
cover the operational costs of the Trust Fund.
66.   Potential demand for financing of acquisitions/mergers is difficult to predict. At
the peak of the crisis, some 80 private financial institutions (banks, finance companies,
and savings and loan associations) with assets valued at US$14 billion were recipients
of extraordinary liquidity assistance and many of these are still candidates for
recapitalization, acquisition or merger. On the basis of data received from the Central
Bank, and using the assumptions described in more detail in Annex M, the banking
sector's potential demand for funds is estimated to be in the range of US$2.0 to 2.5
billion. This includes about US$1.6 billion of refinancing of Central Bank advances as
well as US$350 to 870 million to meet identified or potential capital or provisioning
shortfalls. For only those banks currently being assisted by the BCRA, total potential
demand for financing is more likely to be in the US$1.8 to 2.1 billion range, using
conservative estimates. Some of this demand--the tier one equity requirements--could
be met by the acquiring banks themselves. Trust Fund resources are authorized to total
US$2.0 billion, reflecting the proceeds of domestic and foreign bond that will be in
place by July 1995 (the "Argentina bonds" placed among domestic and foreign
investors), and the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan of US$500 million. Thus, the
Bank would provide a maximum 20 percent of Trust Fund resources.
67.   Any transaction not meeting the agreed rules and procedures of the BCTF
would be subject to the Bank's prior review, as to its consistency with the objectives of
the program. At the time of second and third tranche release, the Bank would make an
assessment of whether those transactions that have not met the agreed rules and
procedures undermine achievement of the objectives of the program. Such transactions
would not be included in the amounts required for release of the second and third
tranches (para. 72(b)) and are subject to limitation.
68.   A central tenet of the proposed operation is SEF's progress on bank supervision,
as part of the Government's program of financial sector strengthening and reform
(described in the Government's Letter of Development Policy in Annex R). Further
progress in bank supervision will be monitored on the basis of a diagnostic review and
development plan to be agreed with the Government before release of the second
tranche. The development plan will focus on supervision policy, the supervision
process, regulatory reports, off-site supervision, and human resources development.
Satisfactory performance with respect to the agreed action plan will be a condition of
third tranche release. In addition, a loan condition provides for Central Bank
implementation of enhanced surveillance standards, including full on-site inspections of



- 28 -
banks on an annual basis for the larger institutions and every 18 months for foreign and
small banks, monthly off-site surveillance of all banks, and at least continuous
monitoring of banks receiving extraordinary liquidity assistance from the Central Bank.
Finally, under the operating procedures governing BCTF assistance, assisted banks
with a BCRA rating of 3 will be subject to enhanced surveillance, including full bi-
annual inspections that include an assessment of progress with respect to their
development and restructuring programs.
69.   The Bank needs to closely monitor the impact of the bank crisis resolution
mechanism on the overall health of the banking system. Under current policies, the
Central Bank should limit forbearance of capital requirements and should refrain from
renewals of extraordinary liquidity assistance. Under the proposed condition, the Bank
would review the capital position of commercial banks and the extension of Central
Bank liquidity loans and determine whether the Central Bank's failure resolution
policies are being effectively implemented. A positive review would be required for
release of the loan's second and third tranches (para. 72(e))
D. Loan Conditions
70.   Signature of a Letter of Development Policy (see Annex R) would be a Board
condition. As detailed in the Policy Matrix (Annex C), release of all three tranches
would be subject to compliance with the following conditions:
(a)   maintenance of sound macroeconomic policies that are consistent with
and comply with the policy objectives and programs as described in the
Letter of Development Policy (Annex R); and
(b)   continued adherence to a program of financial sector strengthening and
reform, as described in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex R).
71.   The following actions will need to be taken for loan effectiveness:
(a)   the Operating Principles and Procedures of the Fund, agreed with the
Bank, have become effective and have been used for at least one eligible
transaction;
(b)   at least US$167 million has been provided to the Trust Fund;
(c)   the Central Bank is implementing its crisis resolution procedures in
accordance with recent changes in its Charter, program objectives, and
policies described in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex R); and
(d)   the enhanced surveillance and inspection schedule is in effect.



- 29 -
72.   For Second and Third Tranche releases, the following additional conditions
will apply:
(a)   the Trust Fund is operating in accordance with the agreed Operating
Principles and Procedures, and the Bank is satisfied on the basis of an
evaluation of transactions that its objectives are being achieved;
(b)   The Trust Fund has received adequate funding to carry out its mission,
and its resources amount to no less than US$501 million (second tranche)
and US$834 million (third tranche);
(c)   the Trust Fund will have issued subordinated debt instruments, as
defined in para. 64, in an amount of at least US$167 million in the
context of eligible transactions, and these transactions will have been
deemed satisfactory according to agreed performance benchmarks (Box
B), subject to the agreed maxima per transaction for the purpose of
tranche release calculation (Box C);
(d)   No more than 10 percent of BCTF resources received will have been
used for eligible restructuring transactions and the exceptions limit will
have been enforced;
(e)   the Bank has received an acceptable annual financial audit review of the
Trust Fund;
(f)   the Deposit Insurance scheme is receiving contributions as required and
is functioning as designed;
(g)   the BCRA continues to satisfactorily implement its crisis resolution
procedures (in accordance with relevant provisions of its charter, the
reforms of the Law of Financial Entities and relevant decrees, as
described in Annex L) in the judgment of the Bank on the basis of
information provided on outstanding liquidity lines, forbearance of any
prudential regulations, and suspensions and banks subject to provisions
35 bis of the LFE;
(h)   enhanced surveillance and inspection procedures as defined in para. 68
are being maintained and a report acceptable to the Bank has been
submitted indicating the profile of Bank classification and implementation
of agreed inspection schedules;
(i)   for second tranche release, the BCRA will have agreed on an Action
Plan for the SEF based on a joint assessment with the Bank, and for



- 30 -
third tranche, satisfactory progress will have been made in implementing
that Plan.
BOX B
EX-POST REVIEW BENCHMARKS
(Applicable to Transactions under Trust Fund Support)
SATISFACTORY RESOLUTION                   UNSATISFACTORY RESOLUTION
I. A.   BCRA certifies that bank meets       I. Bank does not meet capital adequacy
normal capital and liquidity         and liquidity requirements and continues
requirements.                        to receive forbearance on these
requirements six months after transaction.
B.   Last full inspection performed
according to agreed schedule.        II. Bank is receiving any extraordinary
liquidity assistance from BCRA.
C.   Bank has not received
extraordinary assistance from the    III. Bank has not been subject to a full
Central Bank.                        inspection according to schedule.
II. Bank has been placed under
procedures of Article 35b of Law of
Financial Entities.
BOX C
TRANSACTION CALCULATION FOR PURPOSE OF
SECOND AND THRD TRANCHE RELEASE
MAXIMUM                MAXIMUM
CREDIT PER             CREDIT PER
TRANSACTION TYPE              TRANSACTION            TYPE PER TRANCHE
Acquisition                   $60 million            No limit
Merger                        $40 million            No limit
Restructuring                 $20 million            $60 million
* In reaching a level of $167 million, all transaction must meet all benchmark performance
criteria noted in Box B.
* In lieu of transaction, the Government may request the substitution of up of $50 million
(total) in loans to the Deposit Insurance Fund, if, in its judgment, that improves the crisis
resolution capacity of the system (see Annex 0 on the details of the pay-in schedule).



- 31 -
E. Disbursement, Procurement, Accounting, and Auditing
73.   The loan proceeds would be used to finance the CIF cost of general imports,
except those on the Bank's standard negative list. The following procedures will be
apply to procure these imports: (i) goods (and associated services) imported by public
and private sector entities and valued at US$10 million equivalent or more per contract
would be procured using simplified ICB procedures, employing Bank-issued standard
bidding documents. Contracts above this threshold would be subject to the Bank's
prior review; (ii) imports valued at less than US$10 million equivalent per contract
would be procured (a) by public sector entities in accordance with the applicable public
procurement procedures and (b) by private sector entities, in accordance with
established commercial practices. These procedures and practices have been reviewed
and found acceptable by the Bank. Retroactive financing would be allowed for goods
(and associated services) imported up to four months prior to loan signing, up to a
maximum of US$100 million.
74.   Counterpart funds are to be used by the Trust Fund (as described in paras. 62
and 62) to finance eligible transactions in accordance with agreed procedures.
Transactions will be considered eligible once the Government has accepted and put into
effect the Operating Principles and Procedures (Annex F).
75.   Calculations based on reasonable assumptions as to the speed and cost of the
anticipated transactions are consistent with the disbursement of the second tranche by
July 1996 and the third tranche a year later, although the volume of transactions could
well be more rapid. The first tranche is expected to be disbursed upon effectiveness of
the loan. Disbursement of the second and third tranches will require, inter alia, the
execution of US$167 million in eligible transactions under the Trust Fund, as defined
in the loan agreement and in Annex F.
76.   The Central Bank will submit disbursement applications to the Bank and will
maintain separate records and accounts. Disbursement requests will be based on
customs certificates, a procedure which was reviewed by the Bank and found to be
satisfactory. Withdrawal applications documented by customs certificates will be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts above US$10,000 but below
US$10 million.
77.   An audit report on the import documentation submitted, to be carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, would be contracted within 30 days and
submitted to the Bank within 60 days after disbursement of each tranche. Audit reports
would give an opinion with respect to SOEs prepared by the Central Bank. Receipt of
a satisfactory audit report of the prior tranche would be a condition of subsequent
tranche release. The loan Closing Date would be D.ecember 31, 1997.



- 32 -
F. Loan Supervision
78.   Loan supervision will follow the principles of the Bank's new supervision
strategy, with appropriate use of resources in the field. Loan supervision will take the
form of monitoring Argentina's new system of supervision and distress resolution for
the private banking system. In addition to an ex- post review of Trust Fund
transaction, for purposes of tranche release, annual audit reviews of the Trust Fund's
operations are required. Close contact will be maintained with the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, which is providing technical assistance to the Superintendency of
Banks in the areas of supervision and prudential regulation. The Bank and the
government will retain the option to either redesign or augment the existing Technical
Assistance Loan for Capital Markets Development (Loan 3710-AR), should the need for
additional technical assistance become necessary (see para. 68). Loan supervision will
include review of the policies and operations of the Central Bank as they affect the use
of the proceeds of the loan. Detailed reporting requirements have been established to
enable the Bank to effectively supervise this project.
G. Risks, Benefits, and Social and Environmental Impacts
Risks
79.   The principal risk to the operation remains macroeconomic, insofar as the
economic situation in Mexico, and Latin America more generally, remains unsettled
and the Argentine economy continues to be vulnerable. This could result in a further
loss of confidence, a deeper economic crisis, and a renewal of deposit flight. Insofar
as this risk is embedded in regional risk, it cannot be mitigated by changes in the
proposed program; however, to the extent that the financial sector can be strengthened
by recently announced government measures, including a stronger failure resolution
mechanism and the introduction of limited deposit insurance, that risk can and has been
effectively lowered. Macroeconomic risks have been reduced by the adoption of a very
strong fiscal program, aimed at producing a sizeable surplus this year, and by
continued prudent and effective economic management.
80.   Several risks nevertheless remain. The first is that recent improvements in the
quality of supervision would not be sustained. The quality and timeliness of
supervision are central to the early identification of distressed banks and to judgments
that need to be made on the quality of bank management. Recent supervisory policy
changes are encouraging, but implementation of these reforms must be effectively
maintained. Second, closure/liquidation needs to remain a credible option and the
BCRA must use its new powers of Article 35 bis of the LFE to deal with insolvency.
Although there is the risk that political considerations will impede regulators, this has
not proven to be the case with recent bank suspensions. A third risk is that the Trust
Fund's loans will not be repaid, namely, that transactions eventually fail, and the
Government is forced to bear an additional fiscal burden. Strict Trust Fund rules



- 33 -
mitigate but do not eliminate this risk. At a maximum, the potential fiscal burden of
the Fund is less than 1 percent of GDP. Another risk is that the Trust Fund would
either run out of funds or suffer a maturity mismatch on its subordinated debt if those
loans total more than the Bank loan. In either event, Government must be prepared to
either secure additional official financing or seek further international bond financing.
A final risk of the operation is that the process of bank closures and acquisitions will
result in a further loss of confidence, but this risk must be borne if the system is to be
worked out.
Benefits
81.   The program supports an improved mechanism for resolving the condition of
distressed banks. This mechanism has been designed by the Argentine Government,
with material input from discussions with Bank staff in the course of project
preparation. Specifically, the operating rules of the Trust Fund were determined and
agreed through these discussions. In addition, tranche release conditions refer to the
adequacy of liquidity policy (within the constraints imposed by the Convertibility Law),
bank supervision, and funding of deposit insurance. These agreements will strengthen
implementation of the Government's bank distress resolution policies.
82.   It is expected that the banking system will be stronger as a result of the
program. The key forces to achieve this result include the further consolidation of
Argentina's fragmented banking system and stronger surveillance and enforcement of
prudential regulations. Although the banking system will not be fully protected against
future shocks--an inherent risk of the convertibility system--the policies introduced by
the Government provide for quicker and more effective Central Bank intervention to
handle failing banks and minimize their adverse impact on confidence.
83.   In sum, the program benefits include the restoration of confidence in the private
banking sector, which has been badly battered by the events following the Mexico
crisis and massive outflow of deposits. While the situation has now stabilized, many
banks are in financial difficulty and the Trust Fund operation that the project helps
finance offers, along with the new powers granted the BCRA to dismantle and send
banks for liquidation, a viable approach to insolvency. Moreover, as the Trust will
effectively broker mergers and acquisitions to remove weak or insolvent banks from the
system, a more orderly consolidation process can be managed. As part of the debt
restructuring of acquired bank liabilities, the Central Bank will be repaid its overdue
loans, which is important for the health of the BCRA and its normal operations. The
new failure resolution approach being adopted by the Government, and continuation of
recent significant improvements in supervision are important issues associated with this
project. The ultimate aim is a stronger and more efficient banking sector.
84.   Finally, the project will have a financial benefit to Argentina. Argentina
expects the US dollar single currency loan terms to facilitate improved debt



- 34 -
management and the fixed interest rate to protect against possible market interest rate
increases after the loan is fully disbursed.
Social Impact
85.   The most likely social cost of consolidation of the banking system is a short
term loss in employment. Most employment losses during 1991 to 1994 took place in
public banks, as these banks downsized, restructured or privatized. In contrast,
employment in private banks increased during the same period, and increased resource
mobilization expanded the banking business. With the slowdown in the growth of
deposits and the resulting consolidation of private banks, some short term employment
losses can be anticipated. These losses come at a time of a downturn in aggregate
economic activity and sluggish overall employment growth, and highlight the
importance of the Government's social safety net program being supported by a parallel
Bank operation.
Environmental Impact
86.   There are no expected environmental impacts associated with this project.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
87.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and would be consistent with the approved guidelines for Bank
support. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 29, 1995



- 35 -
ANNEX A
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31. 1995)
(US$ million)
Loan     Ficsd                                                AMOUNT (loss    UNOISSURSED
Number  Year      Borrowor    Purpose                         cancellations)
Fully disbursed loans (421                                          5,033.3          0.0
of which SALISECAUDebt Reduction loans:
2676     1 986    Argentine    Agriulture Sector        350 0
2815     1987    Argentin     Trade Policy              496.0
2996     1989    Argentinr    Trad Police 11            300.0
3291     1991     Argentina    Public Enterprics Reform  300.0
3394     1992    Argentina    Public Sector Reform      325.0
3555     1993    Argntino    00SR Support               460.0
3558     1993    Argentina    Finncial Sector Adjustment   400.0
2641     1986    Argentina    Water Supply                             44.8          8.5
2864     1987    Argenti      Power Oiatribution                      276.0         84.9
2920     1988    Argentina    Municipal Development                   120.0          10.1
2984     1989    Argentina    Social Sector                            28.0          0.1
3280     1991     Argentina    Provincial Development                 200.0        141.1
3281     1991     Argentina    Wate Supply                            100.0         92.8
3292    t991      Argentina    PEREL                                   23.0           1.3
3297     1991    Argentina    Agricultural Services                    33.5         13.9
3342    1991    Argentina    Pub Sectr Reform T.A.                     23.0          7.9
3460     1992    Argentina    Tax Administration II                    20.0          4.6
3520     1993    Argentina    Yacyruta II                             300.0         28.1
3521     1993,,   Argentina    Flood Rehab                            170.0         62.7
0369    1993    Argentind     Pub EntapriAe Rof II                    300.0         0.03
3611     1993    Argentina    Road Maintenance & Rehab                340.0        245.68
3643     1994    Argentina    Matel & Child Health                    100.0         86.4
3709 11  1994    Argentina    Capitl Markets                          600.0        500.0
3710     1994    Argentina    Capital Markets TA                        8.5           7.8
3794 21  1995    Argentina    Secondary Education I                   190.0         190.0
*383d    1996    Airdea    Provincial Reform                          300.0         240.0
3860 2t  1996    Argentina    Municipal Development I                  210.0        210.0
TOTAL                                                               8,320.0
ot which has boen repaid                                            2481 .8
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                                               6,838.2
AMOUNT SOLD                                                            12.8
of which has been repaid                                               12.8
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                                      6,825.4
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                                 1 936 0
*1bi  SECAL. SAL or O et Reduedon Loan
It Not yet effective
2t Not yet signed.
IOApr-BS



- 36 -
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTSANEB
as a March 31, 1995
(USS Millions)
Oniginr l Gross Cormmitme-nts    Hold  Hold by  Undisbursd
FistI Year                                                               IFC   If C    Partiai-            t7y   Parttici- (Ineluding
Committe            Obligor                     Type at Business         Loan Equity  pants-  Tobta    IFC    pasf   Pwrticip-nts;
1 9o(lgs            Acindar S.A.                Steel Products            27S94      -    20.73    48.57   25.00       _          5.sa
t 960            ai Papolbra Rio Parana S.A.    Pulp and Pacer             3.00      _       _       3.00     _        _      
1961             a/ Fad  sS.A.                  Motor Veh. & Accessories   1.23      -     0.28      1.50 
1982             a/ Pasa SAIC                   Petrochemicals             3.C5      -       _       3.CS     -       -  
1965n2           ai Colulosa Argentina          Pulp anas Paper            8.25      -     4.25    t 2.50 
I 989            a/ EditoralCodexS.A.           Prinbng and Publishing     5.00    1.o0    0540      7.00     -        --
I 9eWi7          al Daimirn Siderea SAIC        (ran anoSteei             14.75       -    2.25    i7.00 
1971/73          a/ Calera Avelan da S.A.       Cement                     5.50       -       -      5.50 
t197'7/8418ttl88     Alp rgatas SAIC            Textiles anti Shoes       62.93    5 C0   38.50   1 C4.4.3  34.22    29.00
1977185          a/ Soy-xS.A.                   Food and Food Process     21.00      -       _      21.00       
1978/81/lSV/87193/94   Juan Minotb S.A.         Cement                    54.00      _    67.50   t115 50    9.51     9.29
1978/85/87188S19  ar MassuhSA.                  Pulp and Papwr            25o85    5.25    3-00    32.90                
19791SVJS7192    a/lIpakoS.A.                   Petroehemicals            21.00    1.15    9.00    31.15                 
19791S31S4       al Alpssea S-A                 Food &Food Proceass        5.20    1.51      -       e.81                
1984/88              Petroquimica Cuyo SA.      Chmricals &Petrochem.    21.00    4.00   21.09    48609    3;52       4.25 
1986             a/ AtanorS.A.                  Chemicals                  7.00    1.00      -       3.00                
I 986                Pop..Sadie r               CaprtalMarkets               -     0.05      _       0.05    0.05        
19aoJS7              Sadicar                    Capita lMarkets              -     2.00      -       2.00    0.43        
19Soa                ROB-Cattorini              Genea r tanutacturing        -       -       -       a.00    0.1Sa     -
I 9Se                ROB-Benvenuto              Food &agribusiness           -       -       _       0.0      -        - 
I 9ft                R0OB-eBoldt                Timber. pulp &Paper          -       -       -       0.00     -        -            -
19gSt                ROB-CIave Plast            General manufacturing        -       -       -       0.00                
I19So                ROB-Cuyo                   Genwa manufacturing          -       -       -       0.0      -        - 
1988                 ROIB-GaverSante            Industrr41 services          -        -       -      00        
, gae                ROB-Klaukol                Cement                       -       -       -       0.0 zo-
1 988                ROB-Labalcor               Food a agrnbusines           -       -       _       0.0      -        -
t986                 R0O3-Longvie               Genrwa manutacturmng         -       -       -       0.00    0.90        
1986                 ROIB-Pilar                  General manufacturing       -       -       -       0.00    0.19        
I 986                RO8-SudaLm ricana          Industrisli equipment        -       -       -       0.00    0.21        
I 988                ROB-St.Ursula              Food &argribusiness          -       -       _       0.0      -        - 
198a                 ROB-Stani                  Food &agribusin*ss           -       -       -       eoo      -        - 
I 986                ROB-Tags                   Industral servires           -       -       _    0.00         
1 980                R08-D4rio                 7Tmber. pulp & paxper         -       -       _       0.00    0 09      -            -
1988                 ROIB-Piedra                Mining                       -        -      -       -    .0  
1 98B/89ol/995       Banco RobwS.A.             CapitlMatMgk ts           4a800      -       -      48100   Z0Z0(        
1987             al Garovaglio y Zorraquin      Gnenral Manufacturing     13.00      -       -      13.00                
1 987/90             Hicra Oil                  Crude Patrol. & Nat Clas  80 00      -    27 10   107.80    0.38         
t9S7g/90i9           T rminZ  S.A.              Port Facilities           12.50    0.00    0.00    'Z250    5.0 CO
1 9SS            al Astra CAPSA Lindero          Energy                   12.38      -       _      12.38S               
I 9S8            a/ Bridas S.A.P.I.C             Energy                   20.63      -       -      20.63
1988                 Arcer SAIC                  Genwal Manufacturing     12.00      -       -      12Z00    t 00        
1988                 BGN-Colortbx               T xties                       -       -       -      0 0      33
1 9SS                BGN-Estrelha                General Manufacturing       -       -       -       O.0 so-
1928a                BGN-Irterpack              7imb r. pulp8&paPer          -       -       -       0.00    0.50        
1 988                BGN-Noroesto                Food &agribusiness          -       -       -       d0 co   0t17 
t 988                BGN-Cilsa                  Textiles                     -       -       _       0.CC    0.07        
t 988                BGN-Moldeeda               Timber -pulp & paper         -       -       -       0     3  33
It98S                BGN-Oftalmologic           7irmb r-puip &paper          -       -       _       0.0C                
9tt8                BGN-San Sebastian           Food &agribusiness           -       -       -        .0CC    033
19as                 BGN-Tevcom                 Industris *quiPrment         -       -       -       a 00    0.t0 
1988s                BGN-Vallby                  Food & agribusiness         -       -       -       0.00    0 t 7
198S                 BGN-Vandentil              T xtiles                     -       -       -       0.00    0.17
1988/80t             BGN-Flichman                General Mranufacturing      -       -       -       0 00    0.43
t gaa1ag             Banco General de Nagocios AL Dev. Financse           20.00      -        -     20-00 
1t988l2         a/ ChiretsOil                  Chomicals &Petrochem.       -      86a2      -       a.82 
1 988192             Banco Rio de is Plata       Capib Markets            50.00      -       _      50.00   32C00      -           7.53
1 g88193194          Sunge y Born                Food and Food Process    63.00      -    57.50   12Z0.50  719.00    57.50 
t 98Si93             BGN-Longvto                General manufacturing        -       -       _       0.00    0.13      --
I gag            a/ Argentime nvestment Comoarny SecuritievFinancial nst   -      2.00      -       2Z00       
1 989            al Chihudos Pstraobum           Energy                     -      4.98      -       4.9a     -        _      
It989                Banco Frances              0 - r Financ*             15.00       -       -     15 .00   10o 9t
1989                 R0OB-Carboctor              Chomicais & petroch-m       -       -       _       0.00    0.14 
1989BaGN -Cencosud                               Industrisl services         -       -       -       e 00    0.33 
1989g                ROB-Ci rvs                  Food& agribusin*s           -       -       _       0.0      - 
I 989                ROB-Com*si                  Gnenral manutacturing       -       -       -       0.00    0.75 
I gag                RO8-Mal-ic                 Chemicals & p*rrochem        -       _       _    0.00          
1989                 ROB-Maitwia                 Food &agribusinn            -       -       -       0.00                
I1989               Com. General deIlnv rsiones   Finaneid tS vices         -      0.10      -       0.10    0.0t        
1 989                ROB-Frwechis               Industri-l s rvices          -       -       -       o 00    0.49      -            -
It989                ROB-Lauwii                 Ch micals & p*trochem        -       -       -       0.0W    0. 2S       
I 989                ROB-[MIR                    T xbles                     -       -       -       0.0W    0.75        
1989                PIOB-Mosopr no               Tlmb r-pulp & paper         -        -       -      00W    0.10       ^            -
IU ga8GN-Paradins                                Chemicals &petrochem        -       -       _       0W0     t 25        
1 989                8GN-P xtorii                Food & agribusineS          -       -       -       0.0W    0 38      _            _
It989               B3GN-G nwro                  Food &agnibtuine.           -        -      -       0    ' 36        
1989/92              AsitaraCAPSA                Energy                   50.00       -   430   93S00   24.90      28e87_



- 37 -
ARGENTINA                                                 ANNEX B
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as   March 31, 1 995
(USS Millions)
Originrl Gross Commritments       Held  Held by  Undisbursed
FM5col Yew                                                                IFC    IFC    Partici-             by   Partic,-  (including
Committtd            Obligor                     Type of Businss          Loan Equity  pants -  Total       IFC    pants  Participants)
1989103              BGN-Solland                 Tourism                      -        -       -       0.00    0.40      -            -
1990                 BGN-Algodonera              Textiles                              -       -       0.00    0.54      -
1990                 Corporacion de Inversiones y
Privatizacion SA           Financial Services          -      0.08       -      0.08    0.08      -             -
1990                 SGN-Frtogotoba              Food &agriousiness           -        -               0.00    0.25      -
1990                 SGN-Willmor                 Food &agriousiness           -        -               0.00     3e       -
1990/95              Patroken Petroquimica       Chemicais& Petrochem.    40.00      -    11.00      51.00   35.87     7 33        10.00
'991                 Banco deCrsditoAtgentino     FinancialServices        10.00       -       -      10.00    7.14      -
t991                 ROB-Guilford                Textiles                     -       -        -       0.00    0.47            -
1991                 ROB-Jugos                   Fod & Agribusiness           -       -        -       0.00    033       -            -
1991                 ROS-interpack               Timber.puip & papfr          -       -        -       0.00    1 00      -            -
1991                 ROB-Surftacn                Chemicals & oetrochem        -       -        -       0.00    0.21      -            -
1991                 BGN-T8R                     Industrnl eruipment          -        -       -       0.00    0.38      -            -
1902                 Frigorfic oRioglatense      Fod & Agribusirmss        12.00    1.00     6.00     19.00   1033      5.00         2.00
1902                 MBA Sociecad de Bolas SA    CapitslMwkers               -      0.18       -       0.18    0.18      -            -
1992                 Oleagtnosa Oeast            Sunflover Seed Agribus.    20.00      -    15.00    35.00   18 93    12.50
1992                 Potiaw SM                   Chemicais & Peochem.        -      7.00       -       7.00    700       -            -
1992193              Petolera Argentirn San Jorge   Energy                 15.00   27.00    35.00     77.00   40.75    32.08        25.18
1993                 Alto PasnatSA.              Timber. pulpand paper       -       -        -        0.00   19.47      -            -
1993                 BridasSAPIC                  Energy                   35.00   15.00    60.00    110.00   S0.00    55.00          -
1993                 CadipsA S A                  Energy                   15.00    5.00    20.00    40.00   20.00    13.00          9.20
1993                 BGN-Caori                    Food & agricusiness         -        -       -       0.00    I c0      -            -
1993                 ROB-Emprigas                 Industal serves             -        -       -       0.00    1.13     -.
1993                 Ferroexoreso Pampeano SAC   Industrl Ecuioment        13.00       -    20.00    33.00   13.00      8.53         4.60
1993                 ROB-Alimenems                Food &agriousinew           -        -       -       0.00    0.83      -            -
1993                 Malteria Pampa SA.           Food & Agribusiness      12.00       -    12.00     24.00   12.00    12.00
1993                 ROB-Mendoza                  Generaimanutacturng         -        -       -       0.00    1.13      -            -
1993                 Nuevo CentalArgentinoSA      RailroadEquinment        10.00    3.00    15.00     28.00   13.00      -            -
1993S94              Molinos Rio de Ia Plata      Food & Agribusiness        -      3.00      -        3.00    7.82                   -
1994                 Banco General de Nagocios    Dev. Finance             15.00       -       -      15.00   15.00      -            -
1994                 Cevecwna y MaltriaO ulmes   Food & Agribusiness       15.00       -    15.00     30.00   1500      5 .00         -
1994                 ClAGenCombustible            Crude Petroleum          25.00   15.00    40.00    80.00   40.00     40.00          -
1994                 Empr-sa Distibuidora         Industri Seice.          45.00       -   128.00    173.00   45.00   128.00
1994                 Quitral                     Chemicals & Petrochem.       -        -       -       0.00                -
1994                 BGN-Ferrum                   Cmmnt&construc mat          -        -       -       0.00    1 50      -            -
1904                 Masisa-Arg-ntinaSA.          ForestProducts           11.00               -      11.00   11 00      -            -
1994                 Arg.Equity Investment I Limited- Financial Services      -     4.00       -       4.00    A00       -            -
1994                 Yacylec                   _ lndustri Serfces          20.00        -   45.00    65.00   20.00    45.00           -
1995                 Aceitera                     Food &Agribusrmss        15.00   10.00    15.00     40.00   25.00    15.00        15.00
1995                 Mastellone Hermanos S A.     Food & Agribusiness      40.00       -    35.00     75.00   40.00      -            -
1995                 MaximaS.A. AFJP              FinancialServces            -    10.19       -      10.19   10.19      -            -
i995                 La Buenos Aires Vida         Financial Services          -      2.89      -       2.89    2.89      -           0.71
1995                 La BuenosAiresRetiro         FinancialServices           -      1 17      -       1.17    1.17      -           0.53
1995                 Kleppe,Caldero               Food & agribusiness       8 00       -        -      6O00    600       -            -
1995                 Aguas                       Infrastrucrure            38.00    750   134.50    179.50   4500    134.50         52.95
1995                 Compania E!aborsdora de
Productos Alimenticios SA.   Food & agribusiness     15.00       -    6 00      21.00   15.00     6.00          -
1995                 Robet Argentfna Investmwnt
Capital Fund (AICF)        Financi Services             -    20.C0        -    20.00   20.00       -          17.73
1995                 Robrts Argentina Investment
Fund Manager               Financial Sers               -     0.15        -     0.15    0.15       -           0.13
1998                 Soema                        HoldingComoeny           24.99   15.00    60.01    100.00   39.99      -          24.99
1995                 Cadesa                      Supermarkem               28.00       -       -      28.00   28.00      -          20.00
Toti G,oa Commitmet b/                              1152.90  181.00  96.61  220.6
Less: Cancellations. Terminatons. Repayment & Sales  481.57    8.19   297.95   785.72
Total Commitments Now Held cl                         71 .43  174.32  667.65  1,513.89  848.24   687.65      205.56
Pendina Commitments
AECSA                                                 20.00      -    61.00    81.00
Emprcsa Distrbuidora        Indust-l Services            -       -      8.00      8.00
Gasinvet                    Inira ucture                 -    20.00       -      20.00
Nahuslsat                   Infrastruture             30.00    5.00       -     35.00
Sancor                      Food &agribusinem         20.00   20.00    30.00     70.00
Transconor                  Infrsatructure            25.00      -    80.00    105.00
Tucuman                     Infrsructure                 -     0.30       -       0.30
sub-total                                            95.00   45.30   179.00   319.30
TOrl Commrn    en  Held and Pendig Commitments       766.43  20.1 2  84eJ65  1,833.19
Tobd Undcmbsed Commbenm                               92.02   44.28   69.25   205.56
a, Investmens wthich have been fully cancelled, terminated. writen-otf. sold, reaeemed or repaid.
bi Gross Commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
cl Held Commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investrnern.



ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
Policy Matrix
Objective/Action                Accomplished                    Effectiveness                 Second Tranche         |         Third Tranche
Macroeconomic                 * Agreement with IMF on        * Maintenance of a sound        * Maintenance of a sound        0 Maintenance of a sound
Stability                    extension of EFF program.       macroeconomic framework         macroeconomic framework         macroeconomic framework
consistent with policy objectives   consistent with policy objectives   consistent with policy objectives
and program described in the   and program described in the    and program described in the
Letter of Development Policy.  Letter of Development Policy.   Letter of Development Policy
Banking Reform                0 Limited Deposit Insurance    * Crisis resolution procedures  * Deposit Insurance scheme is   * Deposit Insurance scheme is
scheme established (4/18/95).  are being implemented in        working properly.               working properly.
accordance with program
* Adoption of revised portfolio    objectives.                 * Crisis resolution procedures  * Crisis resolution procedures
classification system.                                         are being implemented in        are being implemented in
* Agreement on enhanced        accordance with program         accordance with program
* Tightened capital adequacy   surveillance and inspection     objectives.                     objectives.
requirements to 11.5% as of    schedules.
1/1195.                                                        * Maintenance of enhanced       * Maintenai,ce of enhanced
surveillance and inspection    surveillance and inspection
* Legislation passed augmenting                                schedules.                      schedules.
powers of BCRA to intervene
banks.                                                          * Adoption by the SEF of an    * Satisfactory progress in
agreed action program.         implementing the SEF action    | c
* Introduction of enhanced                                                                     program.
surveillance and inspection
system.
Trust Fund Operations         * Legal basis for the Bank     0 Operational Principles and    a Trust Fund is operating in    * Trust Fund is operating in
Capitalization Trust Fund      Procedures (OPP), agreed with    accordance with agreed OPP,    accordance with agreed OPP,
established.                   the Bank, have become effective   has received adequate funding,    has received adequate funding,
and been used in at least one  and its objectives are being    and its objectives are being
* Funding for the Trust Fund   eligible transaction.           achieved.                       achieved.
from patriotic and international
bonds secured.                  a Adequate funding for the     0 An agreed level of eligible   * An agreed level of eligible
Trust Fund is assured.         transactions has been achieved.    transactions has been achieved.
* Failure Resolution process
begun with suspension of a total                                a Restructuring and exceptional   * Restructuring and exceptional
of 10 banks (4/24/95).                                         transactions are within agreed  transactions are within agreed
caps.                          caps.
* Positive ex-post review of   * Positive ex-post review of
transactions according to agreed   transactions according to agreed  X 
benchmarks.                    benchmarks.
* Annual financial audit review    * Annual financial audit review
of Trust Fund operations.      of Trust Fund operations.



- 39 -
ARGENTINA                                                          ANNEX D
BANK REFORM LOAN
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Macroeconomic Account, - Prolonged regional crisis scenario
(In percent unless otherwise epecifled)
1993    1994    1995      1998     1997     1996     1999      2000    2001      2002     2003       2004
National Accounts:
GDP growth                                       6.0      71      0.0      2.0       3.0      3.5      4 0      4.5       4.7      5.0      5.2        5.3
Growtaol p/capita pav. consumpt                  31       51      (25)     06        1.1      1.0      09        1.3      1.5      2.7      3.4        4.9
GDP (USS bilion)                               2554    279.6  285.1    298.0    315.0    334.1    356.2    381.2    408.7    439.4    473.3          510.4
% Share of GDP:
Totallnvestrnent                               184      19.9    172      17.3     17.7      18.3     19.3     20.4     21.5     221      22.3       22.3
Private                                       160      17.6   15.1      15.2     15.4      15.9     16.7     17.7     18.6     19.2      19.3      19.3
Public (consoldated)                           2.4      2.3    2.1       2.2      2.2      2.4       2.6      2.7      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0
Nabonal Savings                                156      16.2    15.9     16.1     16.5      17.3     18.3     19.3     20.4     20.9     21.1       21.0
Prvate                                        13 6     15.3    14.9     14 3     14.4      15.0     15.8     16.6     17 6     17.9     17.8       17.4
Public (consoddated)                           2.0      1      1.1      1.8      2.1      2.3       2.5      2.6      2.8      3.0      3.3        3.6
Foreign Savmngs                                 2.8      37      1.2      1.2      1.2       1.0      1.0      1.2      1.1      1.2       1.2       1.3
ICOR (lagged)                                    3.3      3.0  (23.1)    10.0        6.7      5.9      5.3      5.0       5.1      5.0      5.0        4.9
Federal Public Sector (cash basis as % of current GOP):
TotalCurrentRevenues                            12.3    12.9    12.3      12.5      12.7     12.6     12.5      12.4     12.3     12.3     12.3       12.3
TotaICurrentExpendittresa/                       12.1    11.8    11.9      11.6     11.8     11.6     11.5      11.3     11.2     11.1     11.0       10.9
Interest Expenduraes                             12      1.2     1.4       1.3      1.5      1.5       1.4      1.3      1.3      1.2      0.9        0.8
Social Secunty Savings                            1.0    (0.5)   (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.4)    (0.4)    (0.4)    (0.4)    (0.4)    (0.5)    (0.5)        (0.5)
PE Noninterest Savings                           0.3      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0        0.0
Pubic Savngs                                      1.5     0.5    (0.1)     0.4       0.6      0.6      0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.8        0.8
Capital Revenues                                  1.0     0.3     0.6       0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Capital Expenditures                              1.0     1.0    0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7      0.8      0.8       0.9      0.9      0.9        0.9
NonfinancialPubflcSector                          1.5    (0.2)   (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)        (0.1)
Quasi-Fiscal Surplus                             0.1      01      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.2      0.2      0.1       0.2      0.2      0.2        0.2
Overal Balance                                   1.6      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Memo:
PnmarySurplus                                   2.7      1.1     1.3       1.2      1.4      1.3      1.3       1.2      1.1      1.1      0.8        0.7
Pnmary Surplus (USS M)                        6.954    2,962   3,571    3,517    4,402    4.431    4,474    4,563    4,616    4,666    3,687        3,696
OperatonalPrim.Surplus(US$ M)                 4,486    2,229   1,971    2,917    4,402    4,431    4,474    4,563    4,616    4,666    3.687        3,696
Interest Expenditures (USS M)                 3,076    3,403   3,958    3.797    4,753    4,888    4,975    5,047    5,138    5.233    4,246       4,309
Operebonal Prim. Surplus Coverage Rato b/     1458      65.5    49.8     76.8      92.6     90.7     89.9     90.4      89.8    89.2      86.8       85.8
Balance of Payments:
ExportsGGNFS(realgrowth rate)                    6.8    11.2    18.2       70        7.1      71       72       7.2       7.3      74       7.4        7.4
ExportsofGNFS/Current GDP                        6.4      6.8     8.1      8.3       8.6      9.0      9.3      9.6      9.8      10.0     10.1       10.3
ImportsGNFS(realgrowthrate)                     11.4    19.5   (11.7)      5.0       4.1      4.1      4.9      5.7      6.0       61       5.9        5.8
Imports of GNFS/Current GDP                      8.2      9.2     8.0      8.2       8.3      8.4      8.5      8.6      8.7       8.8      8.9        8.9
Trade Balance (USS M)                          (3.668)  (5,805)    303     628    1,514    2.581    3,642    4,676    5,569    6,613    7,941        9,494
Current Account Balance (USS M)                (7,154) (10,365) (3,496)  (3,704)  (3.673)  (3,257)  (3.703)  (4,387)  (4,609)  (5.442)  (5.669)    (6,505)
Capital Account Balance (USS M)               11,988   10,903     301    4,362    4,492    3.924    4,482    5.289    5,465    6.124    6,422        7,326
Public                                        2,997    1,924   3,557      864      573    1.345    1.755    1,652    1,570    1.725    2,877        3,458
Private                                       8,991    8,979  (3,256)   3,498    3,919    2,579    2.727    3.637    3,895    4,399    3,545        3,869
CurTentAccountBalance/CurrentGDP                 (2.8)    (3.7)   (1.2)    (1.2)    (1.2)    (1.0)    (1.0)    (1.2)    (1.1)    (1.2)    (1.2)       (1.3)
Debt Indicators:
Total Debt(USS M)                             87.499   97,055  99,925  103,286  107,011  108,531  110.125  112,593  115,478  119.092  122,057    125,649
ForeignDebt(USSM)                            74.660   84,325  86.989   89.767   92,743   94.912   97.394  100.492  103,765  107,697  111,927    117,062
DoomesbcDebt(Fed. Pub. Sector-USSM)          12.839   12,730  12,936   13,519   14,269   13,619   12.731   12.101   11,713   11,395   10,130       8,588
Total Federal Pubbc Sector Debt               70,071   70.896  75.010   75,987   76,957   77,191   77,447   77,755   78,164   78.744   79,517      80,535
Foreign Debt                                 57,232  58,166  62,074   62.468   62.688   63,572   64.717   65.654   66.450   67.349   69,386       71,947
of whlch: LT Pub. & Pub. Gted.              57.231   58,165  62,073   62,468   62,688   63.571   64.716   65.653   66,450   67,348   69.386      71,947
Domestc Debt                                 12.839   12.730  12,936   13.519   14,269   13.619   12,731   12,101   11,713   11,395   10,130       8,588
Total DebtVCurrent GOP                          34.3    34.7    35.1      34.7      34.0     32 S     30 9     29.5      28.3    27.1      25.8       24.6
Foreign Debt                                   29 2     30.2    30.5     30.1      29.4     28.4     27.3     26.4     25.4      24.5     23.6       22.9
Federal Public Seclor                        22 4     20.8    21.8     21 0      19.9     19.0     18.2      17.2     16.3    15.3      14.7       14.1
Private Sector                                68       9.4     8.7      9.2       9.5      9.4      9.2      9.1      9.1      9.2       9.0        8.8
Domestc Debt (Fed Pubic Sector)                 5 0      4 6-   45        4.5       4.5      4.1      3.6      32       2.9      2.6       2.1        1.7
Foreign Debt Service/Exports GNFS               46.7    48.9    53.7      51.0     50.7      46.9     48.2     47.1     44.6     41.8      38.0       37.2
Memo:
IBRD Exposure indcators
IBRDDStXGNFSdi                                  3.5      37      2.5      2.8      2.5      2.5       2.3      2.1      1.9      1.7       1.6       1.4
IBRO DS/MLT Frgn. Pub. Guaranteed OS ea         84       97      6.5      7.6      6.8      75        6.5      6.0      5.7      5.4      5.6        5.2
Pref. Cred. OS/MLT Fgn. Pub. Guar. DS fl       24.5    27.1    23 7      25 6     24.6     26.0     24.6      23.4     21.9     20.3     19.5       17.7
Share of IBRD Portfolio(%)                      36      3.6      4.5      5.0      49       4.9      4.8       4.6      4.4      4.0      3.8        3.6
Money and Prices:
Domestc Infeafon Index (annual c-) g/            6.3      22      3.0      2.5      2.6       2.5      2.5      2.4      2.4      2.4       2.4        2.4
CPI intaton lV                                   7.5      39      3.5       1.6      2.3      2.3      2.3      2.2      2.2       22       2.2        Z2
RealExchangeRateIndex(1987=100)                 489      493    48.6      482       48.2     48.2     48.2     48.2     48.2     482       48.2       48.2
LIBOR i                                          3 4      4.9     6.3      6.1       6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3       6.3      6.3        6.3
MI/CurrentGOP                                    5.9      6.4     62       6.3      6.4       6.6      6.7      6.9      7.1      7.3       7.4        7.6
as Includes Public Enterprises interest payments.
bl Operafonal Pnrmary SurpkluDomestc and Foreign Interest Paymentr of the Publc Setor.
c/ Preferred Credtors are World Bank, IMF and IDB.
4t Bai* guidetines inducate ths rado shortd not exceed 4% for high risk, 5% for moderate nsk and 6Y1 for lower rlsk counties. Argerrdna is curmeny classitfed as s igh risk country.
el This redo should not exceed 20%. Debt service must be foreign publicly guaranteed, matume and long term.
f/ This rado should not exceed 35%. Preferred credtors are World Bank, IMF and IDB.
gt GOP deadator (penod average).
Iv End of year.
i/ Penod average LIBOR.



-40-                             ANNEX  E
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
KEY FINANCIAL NDICATORS
BROAD MONEY (M4) AND COMMERCIAL BANK LOANS
Year        Month       Currency+       Loans        M4/GDP    Loans/GDP
Deposits ($ million)
($ million)
1991         January             9,221        20,370         7.6%         16.8%
l__________  February             9,746       22,049          7.4%         16.8%
March             10,657        23,266          7.5%         16.4%
April             11,954        24,365          7.8%        15.8%
May               13,131        25,213          7.9%         15.1%
June              13,947        26,401          7.7%         14.6%
July              14,609        27,165          7.9%         14.7%
August            15,452        27,874          8.2%         14.8%
September         16,287        28,641          8.5%        15.0%
October           17,260        29,354          8.9%        15.1%
November          18,139        30,140          9.1%        15.2%
December          19,379        30,940          9.6%        15.3%
1992         January            20,518        31,708         9.9%         15.4%
February          21,584        32,317         10.3%        15.4%
March             22,263        33,149         10.4%         15.5%
April             23,082        34,278         10.6%         15.7%
May               24,733        35,363         11.1%        15.9%
June              26,442        35,695         11.7%         15.7%
July              27,773        36,505         12.1%        15.9%
August            28,624        37,978         12.4%        16.4%
September         29,450        39,465         12.6%        16.9%
October           30,166        39,739         12.8%        16.9%
November          30,664        41,578         12.9%         17.5%
December          31,490        42,635         13.1%        17.7%
1993         January            33,172        43,749        13.7%         18.0%
l__________  February            34,290       44,952         14.0%         18.3%



- 41-                          ANNEX E
Year    |  Month   | Currency+        Loans       M4/GDP  | Loans/GDP
[   Ye|r Month  Deposit       Loans
March            35,444       47,393        14.3%        19.1%
April            36,366       47,915        14.5%        19.1%
May              37,847       46,146        15.0%        18.3%
June             38,818       46,871        15.2%        18.4%
July             40,615       48,272        15.8%        18.8%
August           42,819       48,579        16.5%        18.8%
September        44,248       49,732        17.0%        19.1%
October          44,660       49,493        17.0%        18.8%
November         45,937       49,770        17.4%        18.8%
December         47,162       51,226        17.7%        19.2%
1994        January           49,429       52,074        18.4%        19.4%
February         50,246       53,370        18.6%        19.7%
March            50,591       53,770        18.6%        19.7%
April            50,629       54,492        18.4%        19.9%
May              51,161       55,531        18.5%        20.1%
June             51,784       55,957        18.6%        20.1%
July             53,003       56,802        18.9%        20.3%
August           53,426       57,135        19.0%        20.3%
September        53,954       58,109        19.1%        20.6%
October          54,223       58,196        19.1%        20.5%
November         54,616       59,702        19.1%        20.9%
December         55,715       60,009        19.4%        20.9%
1995        January           54,507       59,709        18.9%        20.7%
February         52,618       59,150        18.2%        20.4%
March            48,995       57,300        16.8%        19.7%
April            48,652       55,358        16.6%        18.9%
Note: M4 includes currency and peso and dollar sight and fixed-term deposits.



-42-                                    ANNEX E
DEPOSIT AND LENDING RATES
Year       Month        DoDar        Peso     Interbank      Prime       Primne     Average    Average    Annual
Rate on    Rate on        Rate        Dollar      Peso        Peso       Dollar     Inflation
l                  ~~~~~~~Monthly    Monthly             Lending    Lending    Lending    Lending         Rate
l_________ j Deposits    Deposits                    Rate        Rate        Rate       Rate
1991      January           8.3%      148.3%       251.5%                             193.2%        8.0%      178.2%
l_______  February           6.9%      196.1%       237.1%                             252.0%       10.8%    2801.7%
March            6.3%      193.3%        184.3%                            205.2%        10.9%      94.5%
April            6.5%       22.5%         15.1%                             51.6%        11.0%      49.4%
May              6.9%       23.1%        31.7%                              56.4%        11.8%      25.3%
June             6.2%       28.2%        20.8%                              46.8%        12.1%      28.3%
July             6.9%       29.2%        29.9%                              49.1%        10.6%       19.6%
August           6.3%       24.7%         15.1%                             42.0%        10.6%       6.2%
September        5.8%       18.9%        20.5%                              43.2%         9.5%       14.0%
October          6.2%       17.8%         15.6%                             38.5%        10.7%       14.0%
November         6.0%       18.1 %        14.0%                             37.3%        10.0%       -2.4%
December         6.5%       19.8%        20.3%                              46.8%        10.8%       -2.4%
1992      January           6.7%       17.8%        17.4%                              37.3%       12.2%       22.4%
February         6.0%       15.9%         9.6%                              34.9%        12.2%       16.8%
March            6.5%       15.6%         11.0%                             32.5%        12.5%      23.9%
April            6.3%       15.7%         13.4%                             32.5%        12.2%       8.7%
May              6.2%       15.8%         11.1%                             31.3%        12.0%       4.9%
June             6.0%       14.6%          7.2%                             28.9%        12.6%       10.0%
July             6.0%       15.0%         14.8%                             33.7%        12.1%       16.8%
August           6.4%       15.3%         11.3%                             31.3%        11.4%       14.0%
September        6.3%       15.6%         12.6%                             30.1%        11.6%      11.4%
October          6.3%       16.4%         13.2%                             28.9%        11.6%       8.7%
November         5.8%       18.4%        24.1%                              30.1%         8.4%       -8.1%
December         6.7%       25.3%        33.6%                              33.7%        14.0%       -1.2%
1993      January           6.5%       20.1%        12.0%                              30.1%       12.8%       10.0%
February         6.3%       15.9%         5.2%                              28.9%        11.8%       10.0%
March            6.4%       13.0%         4.3%                              26.5%        12.8%        1.2%
April            6.6%       11.6%          5.9%       8.2%        10.8%     25.4%        11.8%       11.4%
l_______  May                6.5%       10.5%         4.7%        7.7%       10.2%      24.2%       12.6%       10.0%



-43 -                                   ANNEX E
Year       Month        DoUar        Peso     Interbank      Prime       Prime      Average    Average    Annual
Rate on    Rate on        Rate        DoUar       Peso        Peso       Dolar    Inflation
Monthly    Monthly                   Lending    Lending    Lending    Lending         Rate
Deposits    Deposits                   Rate        Rate       Rate        Rate
June             6.3%        9.9%         6.0%        7.8%        10.5%     24.0%        12.4%       3.7%
July             6.4%       11.0%          8.5%        8.4%       11.9%     24.5%        11.8%        1.2%
August           6.2%       10.0%         4.8%        7.5%        9.9%      22.0%        12.7%       2.4%
September        6.0%        8.8%         6.3%        7.5%         9.9%     22.5%        12.4%       4.9%
October          5.9%        8.4%         5.7%        7.5%        9.7%      22.0%        11.9%       6.2%
November         5.8%        8.1%         5.6%        7.3%        9.2%      21.7%        12.0%       -8.1%
December         5.8%        8.7%         6.7%        8.1%        10.4%     24.0%        12.4%       -7.0%
1994      January           5.7%        8.1%         4.9%        0.7%        9.1%      22.0%       12.1%        0.0%
February         5.5%        6.4%         4.5%        7.1%        8.2%      21.0%        11.4%       -1.2%
March            5.5%        7.0%         5.7%        7.6%         8.6%     20.8%        12.5%       -1.2%
April            5.5%        7.7%         8.3%        8.3%        10.2%     22.5%        11.6%       4.9%
May              5.6%        7.8%          8.7%       8.3%        10.3%     22.5%        11.8%       6.2%
June             5.7%        8.1%         7.9%         8.4%       10.3%     22.5%        12.5%       12.7%
________  July            5.8%        8.4%         9.0%        8.4%       10.6%      23.5%       11.8%       10.0%
August           5.8%        8.6%         7.6%        8.3%        10.3%     23.0%        12.7%       3.7%
September        5.7%        8.3%         6.2%        8.1%        9.7%      22.7%                    6.2%
October          5.7%        8.3%         7.5%        8.2%        9.8%      23.0%                    6.2%
November         5.8%        8.7%         7.5%        8.3%        10.0%     23.5%                    7.4%
December         6.1%        9.8%         14.1%       9.8%        13.6%     30.0%                    6.2%
1995      January           6.5%       10.8%        12.7%       11.3%       17.7%      35.0%                   16.8%
February         7.0%       11.8%         12.1%       12.1%       19.1%     45.0%                    -2.4%
March            8.0%       19.5%        23.2%       22.8%       33.9%      65.0%                    2.4%
April                       19.6%         12.3%                             65.0%                    -1.2%



- 44 -                          ANNEX  F
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
OPERATING PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES GOVERNING BCTF
ASSISTANCE FOR ACQUISITION OR MERGER
1.    BCTF is established to facilitate and finance an orderly transfer of assets and
liabilities from weak banks to financially and managerially strong banks. It will provide
no financing without a strong prospect of the bank's recovery.
2.    BCTF will provide financing for acquisition of weak banks, or their segregated
assets and liabilities as determined by Article 35 bis of the of Law Financial Entities on
behalf of the Central Bank. BCTF will not purchase or hold the same on its own account,
except in exercise of its collateral rights.
3.    Typically, BCTF will finance acquisitions of banks that have received
extraordinary liquidity assistance from BCRA or BNA and are rated 4 or 5.
4.    If necessary, BCRA request the audit of the bank to be sold prior to BCTF
financing, by an auditor acceptable to BCRA. Such an audit shall be requested for the
sale of whole or part of a suspended bank, on the basis of Article 35 bis of the LFE. The
auditor will offer an opinion concerning the fair market value of the assets and liabilities
to be sold and will certify that insiders are not treated in a preferential manner.
5.    To ensure financially sound and well-managed entities after acquisition or merger,
the acquiring banks must have a current rating of 1 or 2 and comply with capital adequacy
and liquidity requirements. In the case of mergers, a bank rated 3 can be considered
provided BCRA submits evidence to verify the level of tier one capital, capital adequacy
in light of current asset values, the strength of management, and the business viability of
the merger entities. The Superintendency will assess and verify that (i) the acquiring bank
has the financial and managerial capacity to undertake the transaction successfully, (ii) the
financial risks to BCTF of the transaction are acceptable, and (iii) the managers and
principal owners of the acquiring/merged entity meet the "fit and proper" qualifications.
Any 3-rated bank will submit a business development plan within 60 days of receiving
Trust Fund resources.
6.    The BCTF may also undertake financing in the context of restructurings, provided
that the bank is eligible by virtue of having (a) minimum tier 1 capital requirements, (b)
adequate management and business base, and (c) agreeing to undertake an institutional
diagnostic of its difficulties. In receiving BCTF financing, the bank will have verified
that it meets all capital adequacy requirements without counting BCTF financing, that
BCTF funding will be matched one for one by new ownership capital, and that it is
willing to comply with an Institutional Development Plan to be monitored by the SEF.
BCTF loans for restructuring will not exceed 10 percent of the volume of resources
available to the Fund.
7.    Recapitalization (subordinated) loans will not exceed 25 percent of the risk-
weighted assets (RWA) for assets being acquired, 15 percent of RWA for assets involved



- 45 -                          ANNEX  F
in the case of a merger, or 10 percent of RWA for assets of a restructured bank. BCTF's
secured loans will not exceed the amount of outstanding loans from or on behalf of the
BCRA. BCTF assistance will require banks to repay all such extraordinary loans in the
terms agreed with BCRA.
8.    BCTF financed transactions will use competitive and transparent procedures for
qualified bidders.
9.    BCTF will only finance an acquirer in a qualifying acquisition or merger
transaction through either subordinated loans of 8 years maturity (meeting tier two capital
definition) and/or secured loans of up to 3 years. BCTF will determine the type of each
loan and their maturities, to ensure viability of the merged entity, and keep subordinated
loans to the minimum possible. BCTF will not provide direct equity/preferred capital;
however, both kind of loans may be convertible to equity at terms fixed by BCTF. All
refinancing of BCRA or BNA extraordinary assistance will be done in conjunction with
transactions described in these principles.
10.   To prevent continued dependence of acquiring/merging bank(s) on official support,
the restructuring plan will be adequately financed. BCTF will obtain an opinion from the
Superintendency that the consolidated post-acquisition/merger bank can satisfy the normal
prudential regulations for capital adequacy, provisioning, portfolio classification, liquidity,
and interconnected lending.
11.   Loans will be denominated in US dollars with an interest rate for merger and
acquisition recapitalization loans equal to at least the World Bank rate plus a spread of
0.5-1.0 percent per year and for other recapitalization loans and all refinancing loans
equal to the cost of Argentina bonds plus a spread of 0.5-1.0 percent per year.
12.   The BCTF may on a case-by-case basis consider other transactions which meet
BCTF objectives, but these will require prior review by the World Bank, and will in
aggregate volume not exceed 5 percent of the resources of the BCTF.



-46-                         ANNEX G
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
ARGENTINE BANKING SYSTEM STATISTICS
Table 1 - Banks 1991-95
Number of Banks    3/31/91    12/31/94   2/28/95    4/15/95
Federal                     4          3          3          3
Provincial/Municipal       29         29         29         29
National/Private           56         67         66         57
Foreign                    30         31         31         31
Cooperatives               46         38         36         20
Sub-Total                 165        168        165        140
Finance Companies          29         22         20         n/a
Credit Unions              20         15         15         n/a
TOTAL                     214        203        200        140
Table 2 - Branches 1991-95
Number of Branches   3/31/91    2/28/95
Federal                    941        599
Provincial/Municipal       970      1,102
National/Private         1,104      1,273
Foreign                    372        394
Cooperatives               807        894
Sub-Total                4,194      4,262
Finance Companies           32         38
Credit Unions                4         21
TOTAL                    4,230      4,321



-47-                        ANNEX G
Table 3 - Bank Employees 1991-95
Banks          3/31/91     2/28/95
Federal                 42,112      17,904
Provincial/Municipal    33,598     39,544
National Private        27,666     33,049
Foreign                 12,690      13,738
Cooperatives            17,520      18,006
Sub-Total              133,586    122,142
Finance Companies        1,366       1,148
Credit Unions              312        308
TOTAL                  135,264     123,598
Table 4 - Total Deposits and Credits
as of 2/28/95
(US$ million)
Banks           Total       Loans      Deposits
Assets
Federal                 18,533      10,775        6,797
Provincial/Municipal    19,418      13,064       11,255
National Private        26,793      18,148       14,606
Foreign                 14,800       9,746        8,138
Cooperatives             6,422       4,714        4,281
Sub-Total               85,968      56,447       45,077
Finance Companies        1,272         626         380
Credit Unions              153         119          78
TOTAL                   87,393      57,192       45,535



-48-                         ANNEX G
Table 5 - Consolidated Balance Sheet of the
Argentine Financial System as of 02/28/95
(US$ million)
ASSETS                    LIABILITIES
Cash/Banks            9,360  Deposits             45,535
Public Bonds          2,747  Interbank Loans      25,177
and Borrowings
Loans                57,192  Other Liabilities     2,837
Interbank Loans       8,017  Total Liabilities    73,549
Investments           1,480
Fixed Assets          3,764
Other Assets          4,833  Net Worth            13,844
TOTAL                87,393  TOTALS               87,393



_49 _
ANNEX C
TABLE 6
RANKIING OF BALNKS BY TOTAL ASSETS AS OF 2/23/95 (USS 000's)
Ba-: .:. . .: - - ..... .....                    -I:.   :..-:. ........::-:--:
001       001      00011  NACION                                                   12.970,488
002       005      00044  HIPOTECARIO                                              3.833,076
003       016      00039  C.AJA DEAHORRO                                            1,102.080
004       029      00300  BCO. DE INVERSION Y COM. EXS'TERIOR (BICE)                 627,429
* -- ...... ..   ,......  ..  ..   , .....    ...  s....   ....    ..   . .    .            ... .... ..
001       002      00014  BUENOS AIRES                                             6,855.247
002       010      00020  CORDOBA                                                   1,891,741
003       012      00029  CIL-DAD DE BUENOS AIRES                                   1,698,845
004       017      00061  MENDOZA                                                   1,091,573
005       019      00081  SOCIAL DE CORDOBA                                          819,399
006       023      00071  S.ANTA FE                                                  757,614
007       028      00075  PREVISION SOCIAL MENDOZA                                   639,050
008       031      00093  LiA PAMIPA                                                 553,436
009       035      00098  MIISIONES                                                  504,355
010       037      00083  C-ELBIJT                                                   453,805
011       039      00097  NEUQUEN                                                    421334
012       044      00086  SANTA CRUZ                                                 379,997
013       046      00059  ENRE RIOS                                                  359.631
014       047      00024  RIO NEGRO                                                  347,632
015       050      00060  TUCUM AN                                                   332,269
016       051      00095  FOR-MOSA                                                   326,112
017       053      00045  SAN JUAN                                                   313,992
0IS       068      00094  CORRIENTES                                                 203,500
019       on       00268 TIERRA DEL FUEGO                                            194,455
020       079      00148  MLNICIPAL DE LA PLATA                                      154,593
021       084      00092  CATAMARCA                                                  146,053
022       085      00049  JUICY                                                      144,467
023       087      00089  SALTA                                                      141.678
024        105     00085  SA-N LUIS                                                  117,495
025        123     00087 SANTIAGO DEL ESTERO                                          76,467
026        124     00100  MfUNICIPAL DE PARA.NA SEMICFA                               71.257
027        128     00065  MUNICIPAL DE ROSARIO                                        65.370
02S        132     00066  NIUNI CIPALDETUCUMAN                                        61,702
029        168     00309  NUEVO BANCO DE LA R1OJA                                     20,248
030        169     00141  SXNTAFESINO                                                 20.066
PUYTh 14hIOhL BaE - pOIDsE  NOIA - iL) :  -   ...  .:. 
001       003      00007 GALICIA                                                   4,454.409
002       004      00072  RIO DE LA PLATA                                          4,285,841
003       003      00017  FRANCES                                                  2.328,250
004       009      00012  CREDITO ARGENTINO                                        1,957,911
005       011      00150  ROBERTS                                                  1,812,936
006       015      00043  QUILMES                                                   1.221,139
007       0IS      00067  DEL SUD                                                   1,073,344
003       024      00255  SUQUIA                                                     745,253
009       030      00275  REPUBLICA                                                  568.516
010       033      00034  MERCANIL                                                   547,882
011       036      00238  UN'IBANCO                                                  460,501
012       042      00229  BEEN AYRE                                                  399,243
013       043      00153  GENERAL DE NEGOCIOS                                        393,076
014       042      00251  FEIGIN                                                     345,S34



- 50 -
ANNEX G
TABLE 6
RANKING OF BANKS BY TOTAL ASSETS AS OF 2/22/5 (USS 000's)
~~~~~ME O
...................... ...... ,  , ,, ., . v ,  ......... .    ,. ;;,           ;  ;..
.*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......      .    . *.. ...
001       006      00016 CITrBANK                                                 2.S76,334
002       007     00015  BOSTON                                                   2,733,751
003       013      00001  DELTSCHE                                                1,428.5t8
004       014      00265  NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO                                    1.223,731
005       020      00050 CREDIT LYONNAIS                                           812.971
006       025      00010  LLOYDS                                                   715.521
007       026      00002  SHAW                                                     689.005
003       027      00165  MORGAN                                                   640,920
009       032      00006 SDAIMERIS                                                 549.774
010       034      00005  HOLANDES                                                 509,095
011       040      00027 SUTPERVIELLE                                              417,917
012       056      00025  SANTANDER                                                294,522
013       053     00013  POPULAR ARGENTENO                                         260.567
014       064     00003  ELROPEO                                                   222,937
015       075      00263  CHENMICAL                                                 175.165
016       077      00266  NATIONALE DE PAfUS                                        161,469
017       023      00042  CHASE                                                     148.903
013       099     00267  REPUBLIC NAT BANK OF NY                                    123.997
019       107     00046  DO BRASIL                                                  112.980
020       110      00259  ITAU                                                      99,488
021       111      00253  NEW YORK                                                  99,029
022       116      00018 TOKYO                                                      37.726
023       117      00262  CONTINENTAL BANK NATIONAL                                 87,439
024       137     00260  E.XTERIOR                                                  54,031
025       133     00294  INTERNAT NEDERLAN BANK rNV                                 53.439
026       143     00303  TRANSANDINO                                                44,486
027       145      00236  SAO PAULO                                                 39,540
023       157      00269  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY                            27.361
029       165     00019 THE ROYAL BANK OF CANADA                                    21.607
030       178     00256 CMCORP                                                       14,554
ciX< ~~~~~~~. .        .:.. :' ..  . .......     .......  :: :-: .  :.:..........:    :  ....  ::    f': .:'. fi: f.'.'
001       021      00206  INTEGRADO                                                309.020
002 .     022      00191  CREDICOOP                                                7S2.119
003       033     00135  LNION COM. E lND. (BUCI)                                  435387
004       045      00162  MIAYO                                                    377,136
005       054     00040 CASEROS                                                    312,34
006       055      00179 ALMAFUERTE                                                310.701
007       059     00249  EL HOGAR DE PARQLTE PATRICIOS                             260,535
003       062      00156  BICA                                                     231,117
009       065      00176  COINAG                                                   221.679
010       070      00205  INDEPENDENCIA                                            198.075
011       071      00175  SLDECOR                                                  197,010
012       073     00219  DE LOS ARROYOS                                            133,539
013       073      00108  DEL ESTE                                                 161,131
014       032      00136 NOROESTE                                                  149.065
015       093     00137  EMPRESARIO TUCLUMAN                                       133.054
016       094      00139  NOAR                                                     13239
017       101     00200  INSTIUCIONAL                                              126.809
013       103      00220 CARLOS PELLEGRLNI                                         122511
019       103      00234  LOCAL                                                    108.231
020       109      00126  RLRAL SUNCHALES                                          104,412
021       115     00055  COOP. DE LA PLATA                                          90,349



- 51 -
ANNEX G
TABLE 6
R"NKING OF BANKS BY TOTAL ASSETS AS OF 212W95 (USS OOOs)-
015       049     00271  VELOX                                                    345313
016       052     00287 MEDEIN                                                    318.434
017       057     00140 FEDERAL                                                   265,607
OIS       060     00056 CREDITO PROVINCIAL                                        253.507
019       061     00054 CO.%iERCLkL ISRAELITA                                     240,217
020       063     00062 ISRAELITA DE CORDOBA                                      225.024
021       066     00285  MACRO                                                    216.119
022       067     00299 COMAI                                                     215,942
023       074     00231 LINIERS                                                   176.293
024       076     00254 NIARIVA                                                   163.005
025       010     00110 CORONEL DORREGO                                           152.204
026       031     00286 MILDESA                                                   150.190
027       03t     00277 SAENZ                                                     140.621
028       089     00105 COM. DE TANDIL                                            13S.660
029       091     00115 OLAVAPRUA                                                 135,5S2
030       092     00198 VALOR.ES                                                  133.775
031       095     00297 EXPRINTIR.                                                131.595
032       096     00293  AUSTRAL                                                  131.017
033       097     00147 I.NTERFNA-NZAS                                            130.177
034       093     00301  Pl.kNO                                                   129.564
035       100     00235 COOPESUR                                                  126,237
036       102     00279  PROVENCOR                                                123.777
037       104     00113  EDIFICADORADEOLAVARRiA                                   121.235
038       106     00064 MONSER.RAT                                                116.153
039       112     00133 CREDITODECLYO                                              9S.014
040       113     00280 FLORENCIA                                                  91,221
041       114     00130 POPULAR FNANCIERO                                          91.204
042       11S     00292 MULTICREDITO                                               86,566
043       120     00311 NUEVO BANCO DEL CHACO                                      S4.591
044       121     00273 LOS TILOS                                                  S2.497
045       125     00 73 IBERA                                                      71.129
046       127     00107 CON. DE TRES ARROYOS                                       65,892
047       129     00161  PLATENSE                                                  65,327
048       130     00112 AENr                                                       63.025
049       131     00079 REGIONAL DE CUYO                                           62.540
050-      134     00290 CAUDAL                                                     59389
051       135     00167 REAL                                                       57.122
052       136     00284 BAIRES                                                     57.053
053       141     00053 CREDITO COMERCIAL                                          43,445
054       144     0012S NUEVO BANCO DE AZUL                                        42.360
055       146     00296 BASEL                                                      37.936
056       149     00307 MAYORISTA DEL PLATA                                        33.656
057       152     00247 ROELA                                                      31.5S6
053       154     00291  DEL FUERTE                                                30,653
059       158     0027N  ASFIN                                                     27.565
060       160     00149 COFIRENE                                                   27.055
061       170     00305 JLLIO                                                      19,962
062       172     00306 PRIVADO DE INVERSION                                       19,569
063       173     00293 INVERSORA                                                  18.975
064       176     00312 MBA                                                        15.756
065       179     00310 DEL SOL                                                    13,258



- 52 -
ANNEX G
TABLE 6
RALNKING OF BANKS BY TOTAL ASSETS AS OF 2/23/95 (USS 000's)-
022        122      00195  N1EVA ERA                                                     79,164
023        126      00224  NORDECOOP                                                     70,021
024        139      00192  HORIZONTE                                                     52,417
025        147      00201  VALLEMAR                                                      36,861
026        150      00210  MNERIDIONAL                                                   32.946
027        153      00207 CES                                                            30,967
023        155      00193  AlIANCOOP                                                     30,482
029        159      00196  VAF                                                           27,558
030        166      00231  RIO TERCERO                                                   21,329
031        167      64085  LA CAPITAL DEL PLATA COO?.                                    20,955
032        171      00178  BALCARCE                                                      19,875
033        174      00184  DE LAS COMUNIDADES                                            17,535
034        177      00166  SAIN JOSE                                                     15,753
035        183      00172  NICOLAS LEVALLE                                               10,061
036        190      00180  NLCLEO                                                         5,955
FU'C424.CO&fA.NTESAND SAVR1GS AD LOAM CO*.WNM:S                   .          .....
001        041      44001  ARGEMOFIN                                                    404,050
002        069      44059  INVERCRED                                                    201,092
003        086      44086  COLUNIBIA                                                    142,782
004        090      44073  CORPORACION METROP. FINs.-NZAS                               138,208
005        133      45056  MIONTEMIAR                                                    61,269
006        142      44068  TUIELAR                                                       45,915
007        151      44034  FINVERCON                                                     32,492
008        156      44087  PECUNIA                                                       28.414
009        161      45078  CREDITOS LUlRO                                                26,557
010        162      44077  BUROFINANZ                                                    25,091
011        163      45008  LUJAN WILLIAMS                                                23.546
012        164      44032  FINANZAS Y MANDATOS                                           22,642
013        175      45085  FIDECA                                                        15,825
014        181      44085  AGENTRA                                                       11.350
015        182      45065   I.NASVENTAS                                                  10,136
016        189      45125  TARRAUBELLA                                                    6,472
017        198      45118 COFIBAL                                                         2.016
018        199      45072  DELTUYU                                                        1,219
019        200      44003  BULLRICH                                                       1,04S
020        201      94026  G rULIANI                                                       980
..    .............   .. . .... ......  ...  ...........   .....  ..........     . . .. ........................    ... .........     . ................ ..........  .......j7;;:.
001        140      64032  LA INDUSTRIAL                                                 49,462
002        148      44019  ATLANTICO                                                     35.592
003        180      64029  LA CAPITAL SOC. COOP. LTD.'                                   12.344
004        184      64055  BUENOS AIRES                                                   9.589
005        185      64027  VILLA LURO                                                     8,183
006        186      64112  FLORESTA                                                       7,576
007        187      64043  TRANSMIAR                                                      7.185
003        188      65203  CUENCA                                                         7,092
009        191      64082  IMPULSORA                                                      5,530
010        192      65022  DARDO ROCHA                                                    5,353
011        193      64123  UNIVERSO                                                       5.174
012        194      64024  PAVON                                                          4.727
013        195      64025  VARELA                                                         4,228
014        196      64119  VILLAREAL                                                      2.984
0L5        197      65201  BETAM                                                          23976



- 53 -                            ANNEX  H
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS AMONG ARGENTINE PRIVATE BANKS
ACQUIRING BANK/               J    BANK(S) ACQUIRED/MERGED
NAME OF MERGED BANK 
Argencoop (merger among Cooperatives)    CES, VAF, Nordecoop, Horizonte
Aliancoop and Localcoop
BISEL (Cooperative)                       De los Arroyos, Independencia, Coinag,
Comunidades, Nuicleo and San Jose
Banco Cooperativo de Caseros              Banco del Noroeste Cooperativo Limitado
Banco Integrado Departamental (BID)       Bando de la Ribera and Aciso
Banco Israelita de C6rdoba                Banco del Credito del Cuyo
Banco de Entre Rios S/A (BERSA)           Banco del Este and Banco Institucional
Cooperativo (BIC)
Medefin                                   Banco UNB
Banco Bica (Cooperative)                  Banco Rural Sunchales
Banco Patricios (Cooperative)             Banco Nueva Era and Caja de Credito
Cooperativa Buenos Aires
Banco Mayo (Cooperative)                  Caja de Credito Dardo Rocha, Banco
Cooperativo de la Plata, Banco Noar and
Provencor
Banco Uni6n Industrial y Comercial        Banco de Credito Comercial de Santa Fe
(BUCI), Mendoza (Cooperative)
Banco del Sud                             Banco Shaw
Banco del Suquia                          Banco Montserrat
Banco de Credito Provincial               Banco de Junin
Banco Comercial de Tandil*                Banco del Fuerte
Banco de Corrientes                       Banco del Ibera
* Merger still under negotiation as of 4/15/95



- 54-                                      ANNEX I
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
BCRA PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS
1.     The prudential regulations of the Banco Central de la Republica Argentina ("BCRA")
cover the following issues:
*      capital adequacy and minimum capital requirements
*      reserve requirements
*      loan classification and loan-loss provisioning
*      operations with affiliated companies
*      consolidation
*      internal and external auditing
*      diversification of credit risk.
These prudential regulations are summarized below.
Capital Adequacy and Minimum Capital Requirements
2.      The BCRA minimum capital adequacy rules, which are contained in Comunicaci6n
"A" 2136 dated August 19, 1993, are based on those recommended by the Basle Committee,
but are stricter than such recommendations. As from January 1, 19951 the minimum
required capital for a bank is the sum of:
(i)     11.5 percent of risk-weighted assets, taking into account not only the class of
assets, but also the collateral for, and the interest rates applicable to, such
assets;
(ii)    12.5 percent of permanent fixed assets.
The formula also includes a weighting coefficient ranging from 0.97 to 1.125 depending on
the rating of a bank granted by the Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras y Cambiarias
("SEF") based on "CAMEL" criteria capital, asset quality, management, earnings and
liquidity2. In practice, the SEF has not made these ratings public, and has not applied the
differential coefficients to the capital adequacy calculation. Therefore, currently the
coefficient applied is 1.00, which corresponds to bank rating category 2.
The mininum capital to risk-weighted assets ratio was phased in gradually, starting with 8.5 percent in the second half of 1993,
and rising I percent every six months until reaching the level of 11.5 percent as from January 1, 1995. The additional capital
required in respect of permanent fixed assets acquired before June 30, 1993 was initially 30 percent, but was reduced 5 percent
every six months until reaching 12.5 percent by January 1, 1995 (the level required for permanent assets acquired after June 30,
1995).
2    The specific coefficients are: rating 1: 0.97, rating 2: 1.0, rating 3: 1.03, rating 4: 1.07 and rating 5: 1.125.



- 55 -                            ANNEX  I
3.    For the purpose of the BCRA regulation, "minimum capital" is equal to the sum of:
(i) the "Basic Net Worth", which includes capital stock, capital adjustments, reserves,
irrevocable capital contributions and retained audited earnings, and (ii) the "Complementary
Net Worth," which includes general loan loss provisions for borrowers classified as
"Normal", plus certain unaudited net income, less unaudited losses and less certain items
such as permanent investments in other financial institutions, shareholders' receivables for
uncalled capital and certain intangible assets.
4.    According to BCRA Comunicaci6n 2177 (as modified by Comunicaciones "A" 2223
and 2264), subordinated debt may be treated as "tier two" capital but only up to 50 percent
of "tier one" capital. In undertaking this calculation, only subordinated debt over five years'
term may be counted 100 percent. The value of subordinated debt with less than five years
remaining to maturity is discounted 20 percent for each year or part of a year (e.g. 3.5 years
remaining would be counted 60 percent), even for issues with bullet maturities.
Reserve Requirements
5.    BCRA regulations currently require banks to maintain the following reserve
requirements in respect of their customers' deposits in pesos or US$:
Current accounts                    32%
Savings accounts                    32%
Fixed-term deposits from 30 to 89 days 3 %
Fixed-term deposits over 90 days     0%
Deposits for exchange operations   100%
Depositors have a priority claim on banks' reserve requirements up to US$5,000 per
depositor per bank.
Loan Classification and Loan-Loss Provisioning
6.    A much improved loan classification and loan-loss provisioning system for banks was
introduced by BCRA Comunicaci6n 2216 of June 9, 1994. Under the old classification
system, borrowers were classified mainly on the basis of their payment record, and the
guarantees given to lenders. Under the new loan classification system, which is more
comprehensive, each borrowing client, together with all its outstanding liabilities is classified
in one of the five sub-categories listed below, based on the borrower's solvency and
liquidity. In the case of companies, the classification is based primarily on cash flow and
balance sheet analyses, whereas for personal loans it is based on the timing of payments.
7.    The level of provisioning varies depending not only on the risk category of the
borrower but also on whether or not the loan is guaranteed. In respect of the banks' loan
portfolios as of December 31, 1994, banks have until July 1, 1995 to increase their loan-loss
reserves to the required minimum levels according to the provisioning matrix below.



- 56 -                            ANNEX  I
Thereafter, new provisions according to the loan classification criteria must be made
immediately following a bank's periodic portfolio review, which must be undertaken by
auditors independently of its lending officers.
LOAN CATEGORY            WITH           WITHOUT
GUARANTEES    GUARANTEES
Normal                         1%               1%
Potential Risk                 3%              5%
Substandard                   12%             25%
Doubtful                      25%             50%
Loss                          50%             100%
8.    The larger a bank's exposure to a borrower, the more frequent must be the review of
the borrower. Exposures in excess of 5 percent of a bank's capital must be reviewed at least
quarterly, and those in excess of 1 percent of a bank's capital (or US$1 million, whichever is
less), must be reviewed at least semi-annually. In addition, at least 50 percent of a bank's
portfolio must be reviewed by the end of each six months', and all other borrowers by the
end of the bank's fiscal year, so that the whole portfolio is reviewed at least once every
fiscal year.
Operations with Affiliated Companies
9.    The BCRA regulation intends to avoid the moral hazard which may be present in the
relationship between financial institutions and their parents or affiliate companies or owners.
For this purpose the term "affiliate" is defined on the basis of the degree of control (usually
25 percent or higher participation in capital).
10.   The regulation restricts lending to affiliates to 5 percent of bank capital for each
affiliate, and 20 percent for the whole group of affiliates. Banks cannot extend credit to
related companies unless the borrower has an adequate credit rating (rated BB or better by a
credit agency or normal by another bank).
Consolidation
11.   BCRA Comunicaci6n "A" 2227 establishes detailed rules for the consolidation for
accounting purposes of the subsidiaries in Argentina and overseas of financial entities. The
definition of subsidiary covers three alternatives:
(i)   companies in which the financial entity owns more than 50 percent of the
voting shares, directly or indirectly;



- 57 -                             ANNEX  I
(ii)   companies in which the financial entity exerts effective control; and
(iii)  companies in which the majority of the directors are also directors of the
financial entity.
12.   This regulation is very important, given the number of Argentine banks which own
domestic operating subsidiaries and offshore banks or finance companies.
Internal and External Auditing
13.   BCRA has issued comprehensive regulations covering the scope of periodic
inspections by banks' internal auditors, the requirements for quarterly auditing of banks'
accounts and the content of reports by external auditors. As of January 1, 1995 all banks
will be required to close their accounting year on either June 30 or December 31 of each
year. Banks are required to produce full accounts quarterly, and externally audited accounts
semi- annually.
Diversification of Credit Risk
14.   The amount of equity participation in, and credit (including guarantees) that a
commercial bank may grant to a client is subject to the following maximum limits based on
the bank's equity capital:
LOANS               WITH            WITHOUT
COLLATERAL        COLLATERAL
Corporate and                15%               25%
Individual Clients
Domestic Financial           25%               25%
Institutions
Foreign Financial            25%               25%
institutions (AAA)
Foreign Financial             5%                5%
Institutions (others)
HOLDINGS IN OTHER         LIMIT ON BANK'S    LIMIT ON COMPANY'S NET
COMPANIES                CAPITAL                   WORTH
Non-complementary companies             15%                       12.5%
Complementary companies                 10%                       100%
Total shares and stocks                 50%



-58-                               ANNEX  I
15.   In addition to the above limits on the bank's capital, loans and other financing cannot,
as a general rule, exceed a client's own capital. Risk concentration, defined as the sum of
loans that individually represent more than 10 percent of the bank's capital, cannot exceed
three times the bank's capital.



- 59 -                         ANNEX  J
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
BANKING SUPERVISION PROCEDURES
1.    Banking supervision in Argentina is undertaken by the Supervision Division of
the Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras y Cambianias (SEF), which is a
department of the BCRA. In 1994 the Supervision Division was completely
restructured and the entire supervision program of off-site surveillance and on-site
inspections was upgraded.
2.    The main points of the banking supervision upgrade program are as follows:
inspection staff numbers were increased in July 1994 from 160 to about
300 (out of a total SEF staff of 500) by hiring at various levels from the
universities, banks and accounting firms;
new compensation structure to attract and keep quality staff;
comprehensive training program for staff at all levels, involving internal
courses run by BCRA instructors, external courses in Argentina run by
foreign banks, accounting firms, the Bankers' Association and the U.S.
Federal Reserve Bank, and participation in U.S. courses run by the U.S.
Federal Reserve Bank/World Bank;
creation of six on-site inspection groups specializing in different types of
financial institutions (1 for state-owned banks, 1 for small banks and
non-bank financial entities, 2 for wholesale and foreign banks, and 2 for
large and medium sized domestic banks). One of these groups is also
responsible for systems auditing;
preparation of detailed inspection manuals, with technical assistance from
the New York Federal Reserve Bank;
on-site inspections of all "large" financial institutions (around 120)
annually, and of "small" financial institutions (around 80) every 18
months, based on "CAMEL" criteria (capital, asset quality, management,
earnings and liquidity);
rating of all banks into one of five risk categories (1 to 5) as per
description in paragraph 6 below;
daily monitoring of banks which are borrowing from BCRA under the
rediscount facility or from BNA under the "safety net" facilities, a group
now numbering around 70 banks (Attachment 1);



- 60 -                          ANNEX  J
monthly off-site surveillance of all banks according to financial
statements and other relevant data supplied to the SEF;
publication of monthly financial statements for all banks.
3.    Since the Supervision Division was restructured and the new inspection procedures
were implemented nine months ago, 84 banks and other financial institutions have received a
full inspection, and a further 20 partial inspections are underway. This comprises around
half the institutions by number and about 60 percent in terms of total assets. Since the onset
of the liquidity crisis after December 20, 1994 the Supervision Division has been forced to
modify its timetable of regular periodic inspections in order to undertake daily monitoring of
bank borrowing from BCRA and BNA, and to make available crisis management teams to be
sent to banks which have been suspended (under procedures for bank restructuring and
reorganization described elsewhere).
4.    The periodic full on-site inspections of banks cover, inter alia, the following areas;
- capital adequacy, capital accounts and dividends;
- money market investments and bonds for own account;
- money market investments and bonds for clients' account;
- review of policies and procedures for credit assessment and loan
administration;
- credit review of the customer loan portfolio;
- review of impaired credits and sufficiency of loan-loss reserves;
- analysis of operating results;
- review of asset/liability management (treasury);
- review of the obligations and responsibilities of the bank's directors;
- overall review of the bank's administration with emphasis on adherence to
BCRA norms and regulations;
- assessment of the bank's overall situation, and its future prospects.
On the basis of the inspection the bank is given a rating on a scale of 1(best) to 5 (worst)
according to the rating criteria described in paragraph 6 below. Currently, around 100
financial institutions have been formally rated, i.e. about half the number in the whole
system.



- 61-                           ANNEX  J
5.    Since the intervals between formal on-site inspections are at least 12 months, the SEF
also depends heavily on off-site surveillance, which comprises a detailed analysis of monthly
financial statements and other indicators, to monitor the health and progress of financial
institutions in a timely manner. These monthly analytical reports cover, inter alia,
-     the month's operating results, compared with the previous month;
-     the structure of the end-month balance sheet, with particular focus on
deviations from the nonn, and significant changes from the previous
month;
-     adherence to BCRA prudential regulations covering such matters capital
adequacy and loan-loss provisioning;
-     adherence to other norms and regulations of BCRA; and
-     review of a series of ratios covering, e.g., liquidity, solvency, and
profitability.
6.    SEF's "CAMEL" ratings for banks. The SEF has instituted a rating system for banks
based on the "CAMEL" criteria used in the on-site inspections. The ratings, as described by
the SEF inspection manual, are as follows:
Rating 1 - the banks in this group are fundamentally sound in all respects; the
observations made in the inspection are minor and may be handled in a routine
manner. Such institutions can cope much better with adverse changes in economic
and financial conditions than lower-rated institutions, so they do not need surprise
inspections or monitoring beyond the customary procedures.
Rating 2 - the banks in this group are also fundamentally sound, but they may show
moderate deficiencies, which can be corrected in the normal course of operations. As
the nature and seriousness of the deficiencies are not significant, the institutions can
cope with economic fluctuations. Although the deficiencies may become worse, the
replies of the inspectors are limited to recommendations that adjustments be made in
the normal course of operations.
Rating 3 - The entities in this category show a combination of financial, operational
and compliance deficiencies which range from moderately serious to unsatisfactory.
When the deficiencies relate to the financial situation, such entities may be vulnerable
to the onset of adverse commercial conditions, and they may quickly deteriorate if
concerted measures are not taken to correct the deficiencies. Institutions which are in
significant non-compliance with laws and BCRA regulations will also receive this
rating. Generally such entities require closer inspection to deal with the deficiencies.
Nevertheless the overall financial stability and capacity of the institution are such that
it is unlikely to become unviable.



- 62-                             ANNEX  J
Rating 4 - The institutions in this category have an excessive number of serious
financial deficiencies or a combination of other problems which are not being
adequately dealt with. These difficulties may endanger the future viability of the
institution and indeed constitute a threat to the interests of the depositors. There is a
greater risk of the institution becoming unviable, but it is not imminent or
pronounced. Entities in this category require rigorous attention from the SEF,
financial monitoring and a formal plan of corrective measures.
Rating 5 - This category is reserved for entities with a high risk of failure in the short
term or the immediate future. The number and gravity of the deficiencies, or the
insecure and unacceptable situations encountered, are so severe that urgent financial
assistance is required from the shareholders or other private sources. In the absence
of urgent and decisive corrective measures, institutions in this situation will probably
undergo liquidation, merger or acquisition by another institution.



Attachm,-n I 
|RPC NOV 94:             - DAILY' REPORT  ON  BANKS  WHICH  ARE  BORROWING                              FC   to  AmeX          1    br
..es'dente:               FROM  BCRA  UNTDER  DISCOUNIT  FACILITY  OR  FROM
Gerente General                        BNA  L-;DER  "SAFETY  NET"
Pnncioales Accionistas                                                                                           - -  -
Cartera vencilda desd. 24J1 2194 a la fecha:         2 7Cartera Venible a la IfcFa:       _ _
DE?05srOS                                    4906          4432.70        210.40        1224            9961          8602
Vanacjdn al 30-Nov-94                                     -17 92%.      -57 11% t75 06%              -79 70%        -8247%1       -83
CALL 7CMADO                                   42.00         34.31          33 14         27.60          21.15          19.781
PASES TOMAOOS                                 39.14         2Z94           14.61                                       2.20
LINEAS DE CREDITO DEL EXTERIOR    sdd              SJd           sJd                      5.00           5.00          5.00
OELIGAC:ONES NEGOCIABLES                     152.00        152.00         152.00        150.00         148.00         14t.00        1
C7RAS~ ~ ~ ~     ~ CSI.PR NEM    fNN  3.3        77                  sid                    20.20           1.110
TUO  TA L PAS. FiN.                        1.058.27        889.66       459.0 is8.                   409.16         387.85        38
CALL 3NA                                                                   3S0r23                        29            76
REDESCUENTOS 3CRA                                                           9.50         '0-50          MSt.50        41t5Y
PASESBCRA                  5.50                         4.~~    ~    ~~~~~~~40  10.50  13.70      116.0
ITOTAL PAS. FIN.                          1.6.7           896             5.5          384             0.6          3T8  
CARTERA ACT                                  57723         556.92         433.65        254.12         195.4J        202.37t        2-
CARTE-RA ACT. Y TITUJLOS EN GARANTI sid            sid           sid                    149.16         193.35        187.813 
CALL OTORGADO                                 72.06         23.37          15.65         14.56          14.17          5.399
PASES OTORGAOOS                               24.SS         21.75          16.30         10.72           2.40          2.40
QTROS CREDITOS POR INTERM. FfNAN.            332.40        281.07 aid           sId           SId                      3.409
|ISPONIBILIDADES                             101.41         64.48          30.06         2.43           21.34          3.77-
TITULOS PUBLICOS                              52.91         4.3.40         10.44          0.07           0.52          0.561
TITULOS PRIVADOS                              45.97         32.00 sid                      1.43          0.57          0.681
TOTAL ACT. FIN.                           1.206.86      1.022.99        506.10         450.49        427.83         406.401       41.
PLAZOS FIJS                                    0.05          0.42           0.25          0.37           0,11          1,20
CALL TOMADO                                    3.30          0.2t          6,00                                        9.51
CALL TOMAOO BNA                     1                       15.00          0,60                         10.00         25,60 
CALL TOMADO RED                                2.79                                                                    2.72
PASES TOMADOS                                                              12.22                                       Z22
PASES TOMADOS BCRA                            16.32                                                                   16,32
REDESCUENTOS ECRA                                            1.30                                                      1.30
OBLIGACIONES NEGOCIABLES            ;                                                                                  0
OBLIGACIONES CON EL EXTERIOR                   0.30          0.32                                                      0,62
OBLIG. Cl ACCIONISTAS, VINCUL ETC. .                                                                                    00_        _
OTRAS 03LIG. POR INTERM. FINAN.                                                                                        0.005i
EGRESCS FINANCIEROS                          22.76         17.25           9.07          0.37          10.11         ,9.56        11
CARTERA ACTIVA                                 3.34          3.47          2.12           5.02           0.60         15.05
CALLOTORGACO                                   3.11                        1,50                                        4C1
PASES OTORGADOS                     _                                                                                  0.00
FiNANCIAC:ONES DEL EXTERICR           __                                                                               0,00 
FINANCIACICNES DE ACCIONISTAS, ETC_                                                                                    0 0
OTROS CREDITOS                                 1.70
INGRESOS FINANCIEROS                          8.65          3.47           3.62           5.0o          0.50         21.36
p^1S.   *   ~..   *     .                                            ,   k ,--               MEL     S.       *.  .
Vencimiences                                   0.36          6.09                         16.60          2.62
Altas                                          0,05
13 89%         000%          0  00% 000%                 0  00%          000%
Renovaciones                                   0.09          6.09                         16.32          1.30
2500%        10000.          0.00%         9831%         4962%           0.00%
CBSERVACION:
Las c:fras consolidadas no incluyen las bajas e incorporaciones contenidas en la propuesta de fusion.
con respecto al incremento de cartera activa del 18/04. el mismo se produce con moUvo de registrar la cancelac.on de prefinanc.
czr on redesc. cel BCRA 53.43 mill. y renovacion por S1.64 mill. a ncmbre de
E: incremento de dispcnioilidades se debe a la actualizacion ce titulos puoliCoS y privados 55.10 mill.
Aumen,o ce cartera activa del 19/04: te molivaco por la actualizacion de la cartera cedida en S8.91 mill..
Cartera activa y cit. en garantia: dismmnuye S1O.31 mill. (bala de la cartera cecida S8.91 mill. mas S1.4 mill. de actualizac. de tit cedidas en
6CO            ~~Evolucion ce iOS aeoosio-s                    i7rTiiTmeciaa lai7gn-daoi  .-    RAUw
100
I <.o                                             osa ~~~~~~~~-  N
.co~~~~~~~~ ---5c.- 
zGo   -N                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o_             =-



- 64 -                           ANNEX K
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN BCRA ACCOUNTING RULES FOR
BANKS, ARGENTINE GAAP AND UNITED STATES GAAP
1.    The following is a description of the principal differences between BCRA rules and
Argentine generally accepted accounting principles ("Argentine GAAP"), and those
applicable in the United States under generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S.
GAAP"). Also included are references to the United States Statements of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS).
2.    Inflation. Under Argentine GAAP, banks' financial statements recognize certain
effects of inflation, including revaluation of fixed assets. This was particularly relevant
during the many years of high inflation up to 1990, although of less significance since the
Convertibility Plan of 1991 has come into effect. The inflation adjustments under Argentine
GAAP are consistent with International Accounting Standard ("IAS") 29. Under U.S. GAAP
adjustments are not made for inflation. However in their presentation of Argentine banks'
accounts for listing in the U.S. market, Argentine auditors have not reversed the effect of
inflation under Argentine GAAP in the reconciliation with the U.S. GAAP, since doing so
would introduce large distortions.
3.    Income Taxes. BCRA regulations and Argentine GAAP require income taxes to be
recognized on the basis of amounts actually due and payable in accordance with Argentine
tax regulations, rather than on the deferred method used under U.S. GAAP (SFAS 109).
4.    Commissions on Loans. Under Argentine GAAP origination fees on loans, credit
card advances and acceptances are recognized when collected. Under U.S. GAAP, loan
origination fees and certain direct loan origination costs should be recognized over the life of
the loan as an adjustrnent to the yield (SFAS 91).
5.    Intangible Assets. BCRA regulations permit banks to amortize over three to five
years the losses incurred in sales of assets (e.g. branches) and indemnities paid to employees
laid off during restructurings. Argentine and U.S. GAAP require such costs to be expensed
as incurred. Under Argentine GAAP, deferred expenses for setting up branches may be
amortized over the term of the related lease agreements, up to a maximnum of 60 months.
Under SEC rules, such expenses should be amortized over a shorter term (up to 2 years).
6.    Loan Loss reserves. Until mid-1994 loan classification and loan loss provisioning in
Argentine banks was governed by BCRA Comunicaci6n A 1112, which differed significantly
from U.S. GAAP. However the new BCRA regulations issued in October 1994
(Comunicaciones A 2216 and 2218), which are fully effective for all financial statements as
of December 31, 1994 onwards, have introduced a new methodology for loan classification
and provisioning which is consistent with U.S. GAAP. Under the new methodology,



-65 -                            ANNEX  K
specific provisions identified for individual loans or pools of loans are supplemented by
general provisions for inherent loan losses not specifically provided for. Another important
change arising from Comunicaciones A 2216 and 2218 is that interest income on non-accrual
loans is no longer recognized, and any interest accruals made before a loan is past due are
reversed out of profit and loss once a loan becomes 90 days overdue. This new treatment is
consistent with U.S. GAAP.
7.    Troubled Debt Restructuring. Banks sometimes enter into arrangements with their
loan customers which represent a concession to the borrower. Under Argentine GAAP,
banks account for such arrangements as new loans and charge off the difference between the
old loans outstanding and the principal amounts due on the new loans. Certain of these
arrangements may qualify as troubled debt restructuring under SFAS 15 of U.S. GAAP,
which establishes accounting requirements for a modification of terms. Generally SFAS 15
requires that under a modification the effects of the restructuring would be accounted for
prospectively and that the carrying amount of the loan would not be changed unless that
amount exceeds the total cash receipts specified by the new loan agreement.
8.    Acquisitions. In situations in which the consideration paid for an acquisition is less
than net book value, Argentine GAAP allows the difference to be recognized in net income.
U.S. GAAP does not allow this accounting treatment, but requires amortization over future
years of such "good will".
9.    Forward Contracts and Swaps in Securities and Foreign Currency. Purchase and sale
forward contracts are accounted for under Argentine GAAP differently than under U.S.
GAAP. According to Argentine GAAP, under a forward contract, banks recognize a
receivable and payable at the time of the agreement which reflects the amount of cash and
securities or currencies to be exchanged at the closing date. The receivable or payable is
stated at the quoted market value of the securities or currencies. Under U.S. GAAP (SFAS
52 and 80), banks would not recognize a receivable or payable, but would instead recognize
the difference between the change in the market price of the securities or currencies to be
received or delivered if the transaction did not qualify as a hedge.



- 66 -                        ANNEX  L
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
CENTRAL BANK RESTRUCTURING, CLOSURE, AND
TRANSFER PROVISIONS
Legal Source
1.    Law  24,485 of April 17, 1995, which created the Deposit Insurance System,
also amended the Organic Charter (Charter) of Central Bank of the Argentine Republic
(BCRA) and the Law on Financial Entities (LFE) so as to enhance the legal framework
within which the banking system could be restructured. This measure was taken so
that crises may be more aptly resolved and bank depositors better protected in the
future.
The Charter - Liquidity Crises
2.    Two paragraphs in Art. 17 (c and e) of the Charter have been amended and a
new one was added to give the BCRA more powers to solve crises arising from the
illiquidity of a financial entity.
Art. 17, para.(c) Extension of Facilities
3.    In ordinary circumstances, BCRA rediscounts of up to a bank's net worth are
extended for 30 days. With the new amendment, the absolute majority of the members
of the Board of Directors of the BCRA may extend the 30-day term and exceed the net
worth limitation when BCRA deems it necessary to supply liquidity to the financial
system or when general and extraordinary circumstances make it advisable, provided
that the freely convertible reserves which support the monetary base are not
compromised.
Pledge of Shares and Consent to Restructuring
4.    When such extraordinary rediscounts are granted, the shareholders must pledge
at least a controlling number of shares in/of the grantee entity in favor of BCRA, in
addition to asset-based guarantees, and must consent to the eventual application of the
legal provisions on bank restructuring contained in new Art. 35 bis of LFE (see paras.
11 to 19 below).
5.    In accordance with general legal provisions on the matter, the right to vote on
the pledged shares is retained by the pledgor shareholders, whereas the right to receive
dividends may be assigned to the BCRA if so agreed by the parties.



- 67 -                        ANNEX  L
Disposal of Assets
6.    Article 17, para. (e), a new paragraph, empowers the BCRA is empowered to
assign, transfer and sell the credits it may have acquired from the financial entities
affected by liquidity problems.
7.    Also, a new paragraph b) is inserted in Art. 18 of the Charter authorizing the
BCRA to entrust fiduciary trusts (to be established by the Executive Power) or
specially authorized financial entities with the management and transfer of financial
assets and liabilities.
Total or Partial Transitory Suspension of a Financial Entity
8.    Art. 49 of the Charter has been amended and restated to provide that the
Superintendent of Financial Entities may, if prior authorization is obtained from the
chairman of the board of directors of the BCRA, resolve the total or partial transitory
suspension of operations of one or more financial entities, for a maximum term of 30
days. This term may be extended for up to 90 days if proposed by the Superintendent
and approved by the Board of the BCRA.
Some Effects of Suspension
9.    While the suspension term is current no attachments or executory actions can be
brought against the suspended entity. Likewise, during the suspension period any
undertaking or obligation which may increase the liabilities of the entities shall be null
and void; and the demandability of liabilities and accrual of interest shall be suspended,
except for those corresponding to debts with the BCRA. The transitory suspension
shall in no case give the creditors the right to claim damages against the BCRA or the
State.
Revocation of Authority to Operate
10.   The Superintendent may ask the Board that the authorization given to a financial
entity to operate be revoked. The Board has a maximum term of 15 calendar days from
the date of the Superintendent's petition within which to resolve the question. The 15-
day term could be extended once only for a period of up to 30 calendar days.



- 68 -                         ANNEX  L
Bank Restructuring - Amendments to the Law on Financial
Entities (the Law)
Revocation of Previously Approved Transactions
11.   Under the new provisions of the Law, the BCRA is empowered to approve or
disapprove negotiations by directors, members of the surveillance committee and
inspectors of accounts, on shares of the financial entities or other circumstances which
may produce a change in the classification of the entity, or alter the structure of the
respective groups of shareholders. BCRA may revoke authorizations previously granted
when fundamental changes may have occurred in respect of the basic conditions taken
into account.
Restructuring of Banks
12.   An entirely new Chapter IV consisting of Art. 35 bis is now incorporated the
restructuring of banks into the Law. When in the sole judgement of the absolute
majority of the members of the board of directors of the BCRA, a financial entity is
found in any of the situations foreseen in Art. 44 of the Law (e.g., insolvency) for the
revocation by the BCRA of the authorization to operate, the BCRA may, in defense of
the depositors, authorize the restructuring of the affected financial entity, prior to
revocation of the authority to operate ("35 bis restructuring"). Is to be noted however
that, as indicated in para. 10 of this Annex, the BCRA has a maximum aggregate term
of 30 calendar days to take a decision on the revocation of the authorization.
Restructuring Operations
13.   Under Article 35 bis, the BCRA may resolve any of the following, or a
combination thereof:
14.   To Decrease, Increase or Transfer capital
*     BCRA determines losses against total or partial provisions on assets
that,in the sole opinion of the BCRA, are difficult to collect, sell, or
liquidate and decreases capital and/or makes the reserve allocations
accordingly.
*     BCRA grants a term within which the entity has to increase its capital
and reserves, which would need be subscribed and paid in during the
such term.
*     BCRA revokes the authorization given to all or some shareholders of the
financial entity so that they cannot continue as such, in which case a
term of no less than 10 days is granted to them for the disposal of their
shares.



- 69 -                          ANNEX  L
*     BCRA sells or entrusts the sale of the financial institution's capital and
the rights to subscribe capital increases. To this end the institution and its
shareholders must consent to the necessary transactions and deposit their
stock certificates at the BCRA.
15.   Exclusion of assets and liabilities and transfer of same to other financial
entities
*     BCRA excludes assets and segregates them from the balance sheet of a
financial institution for a value equivalent to the liabilities to be similarly
excluded;
*     BCRA excludes liabilities to match the excluded assets, as indicated
above. BCRA credits are also excluded after taking into account
privileged creditors (secured labor claims and depositors).
*     BCRA may authorize and entrust the transfer of excluded assets and
liabilities to other financial institutions, provided that the equivalence of
assets and liabilities is maintained in each transfer.
16.   The BCRA may also extend extraordinary rediscounts in cases of regularization
of financial institutions (see para. 3 above) and approve proposals aimed at improving
the liquidity of the institution through synchronizing the maturities of assets and
liabilities.
Legal intervention
17.   The BCRA may ask a court that a legal interventor, be appointed to carry out
any of the alternatives described above. The interventor may substitute for
management with full powers as required.
Self-Liquidation/Court Liquidation
18.   The Law also provides new rules to allow self-liquidation of a financial
institution, or its winding up through a court-appointed liquidator, in which case several
rules in the Bankruptcy Law will apply.
Special Privileges on Deposits in Cases of Judicial Liquidations
19.   The Law has been amended to provide the following special privileges to
depositors:
*     up to $5,000 per person per deposit, for deposits of any kind, to be
covered by the bank's reserves;
*     remaining reserves cover all deposits with terms exceeding 90 days;



-70-                            ANNEX  L
*     any remaining reserve balances are assigned to depositors in prorata
shares.
Advance Payment to Depositors
20.   At the time of resolving the revocation of the authorization to operate, or during
the period of transitory suspension, the BCRA may require payment to depositors
pursuant to the privileges indicated above.
General Privilege
21.   A general and absolute privilege is granted to depositors over all other credits,
except for those secured by a pledge or mortgage. The revocation resolution may
authorize the financial institution to pay depositors in proportion to available liquid
funds after the senior obligations have been paid.
Bankruptcy of the Financial Entity
22.   While the financial institution is under judicial liquidation, the liquidator must
petition for bankruptcy if he determines that the institution ceases to pay its obligations.
The court may also declare the bankruptcy.
Survival of Depositors' Privileges
23.   The special and general privileges in favor of depositors survive in case of
bankruptcy of the financial institution, and prevails over BCRA credits.
Legal Stability of Restructuring Acts Preceding Bankruptcy
24.   The Law further provides stability to the acts carried out or authorized by the
BCRA in a 35 bis restructuring and related transactions, stating that they shall and
cannot be revoked or declared without legal validity, even if the financial institution is
ultimately declared in bankruptcy.
Bill of Amendment to Bankruptcy Law
25.   Finally, a bill has already been discussed and approved by the Senate and is
now pending in Congress, to amend and restate the Law on Bankruptcy. The bill
provides for shorter terms, in general, for the bankruptcy procedure; introduces
modem concepts and applies to new business situations; and limits the action of the
court in favor of that of the creditors.



- 71-                    ANNEX M
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
FINANCING NEEDS FOR PRIVATE BANK RESTRUCTURING
1.    By February 1995, 81 private banks have used total liquidity advances
of US$1,633 million (BCRA: US$1,165 million and BNA: US$468 million).
The safety net advances are being rolled over monthly due to the banks'
inability to repay. These 81 banks are the most distressed, and all are
potential candidates for merger, acquisition, or liquidation. They include
virtually all domestic cooperative, wholesale, regional, and small national
banks with risk-weighted assets (RWA) of US$10.2 billion. Several of these
banks with RWA of US$8.0 billion were already involved in mergers by
April 1995, as are many others outside the safety net with additional RWA of
US$2.3 billion. The following table describes the private banks in safety net
borrowings or in a merger process.
Private Banks Involved in Safety Net Borrowings and/or Mergers
(February 1995)           (million pesos)
Banks in Safety Net         -             Banks in
l      _                            ll ~~~~~~~~~~~Mergers (4/95)
In    All
Retail  Cooper  Whol   Total   Safety
atives  esale             Net
No. of banks         33      35      13    81*        11*      46
Risk-Wtd Assets    5101    6547   2308   13956      8070   10371
Actual Capital      587     865    377    1829       982    1317
Capital Shortfall                           120      NA       NA
Deposits           2632    3578    607    6818      4330    5521
Provisions          391      305     57     753      534      682
Branches            377      775     34    1186      827      965
Employees         10336   15112   1807  27255    18370   21979
* The 11 banks are included in the 81 banks in safety net.   _
2.    The demand for BCTF funding can be estimated as the sum of: (i)
refinancing of BCRA/BNA safety net advances overdue, and (ii) the shortfall
in statutory capital of sold (as against going concern) banks. The latter is the
sum of the existing capital shortfall, deficit in existing provisions, additional
provisions to cover changes in asset classification as on the sale date and the
value of guarantees, the seller's expenses relating to sale/liquidation, and the
"haircut" to compensate buyers for the risks and costs of collecting assets of



- 72 -                         ANNEX M
another originator, the costs of merger or acquisition itself and the costs of
integrating businesses, branches, personnel, and systems.
3.     As discussed in Annex I, the revised portfolio classification and
provisioning norms have been implemented in a phased manner. Thus
compliance with the existing provisioning standards is expected to be fully
implemented by July 1995. The following Table shows the minimum capital
needed to comply with the 11.5 percent capital adequacy guideline and
current provisioning norms based on classification of assets as of February
1995.' Additional provisions to correct errors or overvaluation are estimated
under three scenarios: downgrading, by one class, of 25 percent, 50 percent,
and 100 percent of assets in each class.
Financing Needs of Private Banks
(US$$ million)                              l
Banks      Banks In
Assisted     Merger        Total
Outside
Safety Net
Capital and Provisioning Shortfall         120           108          228
Provisions for 1-class downgrading of
A. 25 % of Assets                           61            61          122
B. 50% of Assets                           143           127         270
C. 100% of Assets                          373           269         642
TOTAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
A                                          181          169          350
B                                         263           235          498
C                                         493           377          870
BCRA/BNA Advances                         1633             0         1633
TOTAL FINANCING NEEDED
A                                        1814           169        1983
B                                        1896          235         2131
C                                        2126          377         2503
Note: Banks outside safety net and not involved in any merger are also reported to
have a capital or provisioning shortfall of US$164 million which is expected to be
corrected by the relevant shareholders.
4.     These estimates show that as of February 1995, the liquidity-assisted
and merging banks had extraordinary liquidity assistance of US$1,633
million, and a statutory capital shortfall of US$228 million. Thus minimum
1.     There are five portfolio classes: normal, potential risk, sub-standard, doubtful, and loss. They require
provisions of 1, 5, 25, 50, and 100% and about half that much if asset is guaranteed.



- 73 -                    ANNEX M
restructuring funding requirements of the banks either receiving extraordinary
assistance and in the process of merging US$1,861 million. Allowing for a
downgrading of all of the assets by one class will require additional
provisioning of US$642 million, raising the total capital requirements to
US$870 million and total funding requirements to US$2,503 million. These
may be underestimates if the value of assets has fallen even more sharply
than is assumed in Scenario C. Dealing only with BCRA assisted banks, for
example, yields recapitalization requirements of as much as US$493 million
(assuming a 100 percent decline in assets by 1 category) and a total need for
financing of US$2,126 million, when refinancing of past credit lines is
included. These estimates should be considered conservative in light of
current asset values.
5.    Clearly, there is great uncertainty surrounding funding requirements.
The prevalence and degree of distress depends on future deposit withdrawals;
the asset values on interest rate changes, real sector problems, and market
value of stocks, bonds, and other collateral; and the difference between sale
price and book value on quality of record-keeping, problems of due
diligence, familiarity of the buyers with institution and assets sold, and
cooperation in and speed of negotiations. Also, besides BCTF financing, it
is also possible to plug these funding requirements with either the existing
"surplus" capital of the top banks which obviously cannot be accurately
calculated in the light of reduced quality of all assets during the crisis), by
raising additional capital in the course of mergers/acquisitions, and by
allocating some of the losses to creditors or depositors of the selling banks.
6.    Nonetheless, the above estimates (between US$2.0 to 2.5 billion)
indicate the magnitude of financing that may be needed and the importance of
the proposed loan in filling any gap. The identified resources up to this point
include US$2.0 billion from patriotic domestic and foreign bonds, the
proposed Bank loan of US$500 million, and some proportion of the excess
capital of the stronger banks involved in such transactions.



-74-                          ANNEX N
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
THE BANK CAPITALIZATION TRUST FUND
Legal Source
1.    Law 24,441 (Housing and Construction Financing Act) established trusts and
financial Trusts. These institutions are new to the Argentine civil law system. Under
the new law, the Bank Capitalization Trust Fund (BCTF) was created to assist financial
institutions in capitalizing and strengthening the Argentine financial system.
Management
2.    The Fund is managed by a five-member Committee composed of the Secretary
of Finance, Banks and Insurance of the Ministry of Economy (chair); a Director of the
Central Bank (appointed by the Chairman of the Board of the BCRA); a representative
of the Ministry of Economy; one representative each of the resident and non-resident
holders of 1998 Argentina Bonds.
Funding
3.    The Fund is financed by:
(i)   the transfer in trust by the Treasury of the proceeds of the 1998
Argentina Bonds;
(ii)  financial resources from multilateral lending institutions;
(iii)  income from its operations; and
(iv)   other resources obtained for the purposes foreseen in the trust agreement
between the State and Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (BNA). Under the
Trust Agreement, the BNA acts as managing agent of the Fund.
Objective
4.    The Fund was established for the following purposes:
*     subscribing and making capital contributions or extending convertible or
non-convertible loans to financial institutions;
*     buying and selling shares of financial institutions;



-75-                          ANNEX  N
*     gradual divesting of its acquired assets; and
*     carrying out tasks and transferring financial assets and liabilities at the
request of the BCRA in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
Fund's constitutive Decree 445 and pursuant to the Trust Agreement.
Operations
5.    The Fund's operating procedures are described in Annex F. The operating
procedures of the Fund's Managing Committee have been established as an internal
regulation of the Fund. In addition to deciding on BCTF assistance to banks, the
Committee will prepare a plan for the realization of the assets that the Fund may
acquire which would be subject to the following:
*     Shares or equity participations in financial institutions, subscribed or
received in payment of loans or convertible bonds, will be disposed of at
an auction, or through bids or public or private offerings in the capital
market;
*     Real estate must be sold through public or private bidding, or at a public
auction;
*     Other assets shall be sold in accordance with market practice.
Dissolution
6.    The Fund shall be dissolved in two years or once its objective has been
accomplished, whichever occurs first.
Oversight Authority
7.    The oversight authority is the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and
Services.



- 76 -                        ANNEX  0
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
THE LEGAL PROVISIONS OF THE DEPOSIT INSURANCE SYSTEM
1.    The Deposit Guarantee Insurance System was created by Law 24485 of April
17, 1995. The Deposit Guarantee Fund is special joint stock company, Seguro de
Dep6sitos Sociedad An6nima (SEDESA). SEDESA's shareholders will be the State,
with at least one share, and a fiduciary trust established by financial institutions
authorized to operate in Argentina, as the majority shareholder (Trust). However,
contributions by financial institutions as participations in the Fiduciary Trust are
optional are not mandatory but optional, although participation in the Trust would
entitle them to their share in the income, if any, that the Trust may receive as
shareholder of SEDESA. The BCRA will determine the proportion in which financial
institutions participate in the Trust. The BCRA also designates the depository of the
contributions and other income received by SEDESA as manager of the Fund.
2.    SEDESA will be remunerated for its managing services and will distribute its
net profits in cash to its shareholders. SEDESA will also perform advisory services to
the BCRA and has to render its opinion on whether a financial institution has credit and
business policies of a higher-than-normal risk. Any amendment to the constitutive
documents or change in the capital of SEDESA would require the favorable vote of the
State.
Funding
3.    The BCRA will determine the ordinary monthly contribution that each financial
institution obligated to make to the Fund, within the range of 0.03 to 0.06 percent of
the average daily balances of deposits in pesos and foreign currency. Additional or
extraordinary contributions may be established by BCRA for each institution on the
basis of risk indicators determined by BCRA. In no case can the additional
contribution by an institution exceed its normal premium. Some contributions to the
Fund were due as of April 1995. Timely payment is a condition that financial
institutions must meet to continue to operate in Argentina.
4.    The BCRA may at any time request that the financial entities advance to the
Fund the payment of up to one year of monthly ordinary contributions. The BCRA is
authorized to directly debit any amounts due by the institutions to their deposits at the
BCRA.
5.    Immediately after the end of each calendar year the BCRA will establish each
participating financial institution's interest in the Trust and in the Fund. The



-77-                          ANNEX  0
shareholding of the Fund in SEDESA and the participating institutions' quotas in the
Fund would be reallocated accordingly.
6.    Once the Fund reaches an amount of US$2 billion or 5 percent of the total
amount of deposits of the financial system, whichever is higher, the BCRA may
suspend or reduce contribution obligations to the Fund. The standard obligations
would be reinstated when the Fund's resources drop below the maximum funding
indicated above.
Investment and Reporting
7.    Rules are provided for the investment of the monies of the Fund and for
monthly reporting of the Fund to the public and to the Superintendency of Financial
Entities.
Coverage
8.    The Deposit Insurance System covers deposits at participating institutions,
including checking, savings, and fixed-term deposits. Fixed-term deposits will qualify
only if made or renewed as of April 18, 1995. The following deposits are expressly
excluded from coverage:
*     deposits of financial entities with other intermediaries, including fixed-
term certificates purchased in the secondary market;
*     deposits made by persons directly or indirectly related to the institution,
according to rules to be established by the BCRA;
*     fixed-term deposits of securities, acceptances or guarantees;
*     deposits made after July 1, 1995 on which the annual interest rate is 2
percentage points higher than the interest rate on equivalent deposits at
Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (BNA) on the day prior to the transaction;
*     other deposits which the BCRA may exclude in the future.
Insured Amounts
9.    The amounts guaranteed by the insurance system are:
*     Up to US$10,000.- in respect of sight deposits and less than 90-day fixed
term deposits;
*     Up to US$20,000.- in the case of 90 or more-day fixed term deposits.



- 78 -                       ANNEX 0
Payment - Sufficiency/Insufficiency of Funds
10.  Insurance payments up to the limits indicated above are due only as a
supplement to the amounts obtained by depositors under the general deposit protection
and privilege system, established by amendment to the Law on Financial Entities (see
Annex G); and as such would be effected within 30 days following the day after the
revocation of the authorization enabling the entity to operate, as funds in the Fund
become available. The 30-day term could be extended by the BCRA at the request of
SEDESA.
11.  If the resources of the Fund are insufficient to fully pay the depositors what they
are due under the Deposit Insurance System, payment would be effected on a pro-rata
basis with the available funds. The unpaid balance would be settled within 30 days as
of the date the Fund reports on the availability of new funds.
12.  If the authorization to operate is revoked to more than one financial institution,
payment to depositors would be made in chronological order, starting on the date the
first payment was due under the Deposit Guarantee Fund.
Interest Payment
13.   The Fund will not pay or recognize any interest on qualifying deposits for the
period of time between the original due date of the deposit and the date of payment
under the Deposit Insurance System. To overcome the argument that "the original due
date" could fall days/months after the revocation of the authorization to operate a
financial institution--or even after the insurance settlement date -- the general provisions
of law stating that interest accrual stops when the owing entity ceases payment of its
obligations would forcibly apply.
Qualifications - Preferences
14.   All persons --physical or corporate-- qualify under the Deposit Insurance System
on an equal standing. All qualifying deposits of a person with a financial institution
would be aggregated and considered as one only as at the date of the revocation of the
authorization to operate, for the purpose of determining the insurance supplemental
amount due. In the case of a concurrent depositor, payment on sight deposits and on
fixed term deposits with less than 90-day maturities would come before payment on
fixed-term deposits with maturities of 90 days or more.
Subrogation of Rights and Privileges
15.   SEDESA acquires by subrogation all the rights and privileges established by the
Law on Financial Entities in favor of the depositors, and may exercise such rights and
claim the privileges in respect of payments made under the Deposit Insurance System.



- 79 -                        ANNEX  0
Operating Rules
16.   The BCRA is empowered to issue rules for the interpretation and application of
the norms contained in the Decree.



-80-                             ANNEX  P
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
LIQUIDITY, CAPITALIZATION, AND CLASSIFICATION OF PRIVATE BANKS
A. The Present Situation of Private Banks
1.    The private banks in Argentina may be conveniently divided into the following five
categories:
(i)   large domestic retail banks with a territorial network;
(ii)  foreign banks;
(iii)  wholesale banks;
(iv)   cooperative banks; and
(v)   regional retail banks.
The liquidity crisis since December 20, 1994 has not only reduced the deposits of the entire
banking system, but has led to a significant change in the composition of deposits, liquidity
and assets among the various groups of banks. Fundamentally the large domestic banks and
foreign banks have gained market share at the expense of the wholesale banks, cooperative
banks and regional retail banks.
Large Domestic Banks
2.    As of February 28, 1995 the six largest domestic retail banks' accounted for 35.7
percent of the total assets of the private banking system, compared with 32.4 percent as of
12/31/94. During the same period their share of total deposits increased from 28.5 percent
to 34.4 percent, while their share of customer loans rose from 32.0 percent to 33.9 percent.
Although the largest banks have been cautious in originating new loans to their existing
customers, owing to their need to maintain high levels of liquidity, they have acquired assets
from the smaller banks, notably from the so-called "wholesale banks"as part of the first
"safety net" operation arranged by BCRA in early January 1995.
3.    The six largest domestic retail banks had an aggregate capitalization of $2,200 million
as of February 28, 1995, around 35 percent of the capitalization of the entire private banking
system and comfortably in excess of the minimum capital requirement of US$1,531 million
according to BCRA regulations (11.5 percent of risk-weighted assets). These banks had all
l   These are: Galicia, Rio, Frances, Credito Argentino, Roberts and Quilmes



- 81 -                           ANNEX  P
made loan-loss provisions close to or in excess of their classified loan assets, indicating that
they are presently well provided, although a worsening of their loan portfolios in the months
ahead may require additional provisioning which would reduce their capital surpluses.
4.    The major domestic banks have weathered the liquidity crisis well maintaining
comfortable cushions of liquidity with BCRA and banks abroad, and making a large
contribution to the second "safety net" in late January 1995 which involved the transfer of
2 percent of 25 banks' deposit base as of November 30, 1994 from liquidity reserves to a
special account with the Banco de la Naci6n.
5.    The branch networks of the major domestic banks range in size from Galicia
(179 branches), Rio (172) and Credito Argentino (120) to Quilmes (90), Frances (67) and
Roberts (35). These banks' branches are heavily concentrated in the Federal Capital and the
Province of Buenos Aires and rather sparsely represented in the other provinces, except in
the major cities. None of the banks has a large branch network, considering the size of
Argentina and its population. The major banks do not envisage expanding their networks
significantly in the interior by organic growth of their existing operations, although
acquisition of regional banks might be pursued as a way of building denser branch networks
in some of the major provinces outside Buenos Aires.
Foreign Banks
6.    The four largest2 of the 31 foreign banks with operations in Argentina accounted for
16.7 percent of the private banks' total assets as of end-February 1995, 18.0 percent of
customer loans and 19.2 percent of deposits. They had a capitalization of US$924 million,
well in excess of the BCRA minimum requirement of US$826 million and some 16 percent
of the private banks' aggregate capitalization. The foreign banks gained deposits during the
early weeks of the crisis, especially in dollars, and continued to increase their market share
during March and April 1995 when all banks suffered a decline in deposits. The foreign
banks have maintained relatively high levels of liquidity, and have restricted their lending
mostly to renewals, although several have acquired loan assets from the wholesale banks
which have been forced to sell down the best of their portfolios to realize liquidity. Most of
the foreign banks have medium sized branch networks (25 to 45 branches each) concentrated
in Greater Buenos Aires, with relatively few offices in the interior. Several are now
considering taking the present opportunity to acquire not only assets but also branches from
small domestic banks, but such purchases are likely to be highly selective.
Wholesale Banks
7.    When the liquidity crisis began in late December 1994 there were about 25
"wholesale" banks operating in Argentina, typically with one branch located in the Federal
2   Citibank, Boston, Deutsche and BN Lavoro.



- 82 -                           ANNEX P
Capital and specializing in niche activities such as bond and equity trading, money market
business, consumer credit, foreign exchange and trade finance. These banks depended
heavily for their funding on large corporate and individual deposits, lines of credit from
banks abroad and borrowing on the local call market from the large retail banks.
8.    These wholesale banks have been severely affected by the systemic decline in deposits
during the past four months. Typically such banks have lost 40 to 75 percent of their peso
deposits and 25 to 50 percent of their deposits in foreign currency since December 20, 1994.
Part of the deposits lost has been transferred to the large domestic and foreign banks in
Argentina, the remainder has mostly been remitted abroad. Owing to the institutional nature
of such deposits, they are unlikely to return to the wholesale banks in the foreseeable future.
The wholesale banks have also lost ready access to credit lines from correspondent banks
abroad and to call money lines in pesos, except in the context of the "safety net" operations
mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 4 above. Several of the wholesale banks have been forced to
borrow from BCRA under special "financial assistance" arrangements.
9.    The wholesale banks have responded to this situation by restricting their new business
to non-funds based activities and by selling off their asset portfolios, mostly to the large
domestic and foreign banks. Inevitably they have been obliged to sell the better parts of
their portfolios, notably consumer credit, often at substantial discounts, in order to restore
adequate liquidity. Despite these efforts four wholesale banks3 have already been
suspended by the BCRA and required to submit a refinancing plan or face liquidation.
Others are likely to follow the same route during the coming months unless acquired by
another bank, although a number of the better capitalized wholesale banks may be able to
survive until more propitious conditions return.
Cooperative Banks
10.   As of end September 1994 there were 31 cooperative banks in Argentina, of which 20
were affiliated to Federaci6n de Bancos Cooperativos de la Repuiblica Argentina (Febancoop)
and eight affiliated to Instituto Movilizador de Fondos Cooperativos. In addition, around
half were either shareholders or affiliates of Banco Federal S/A together with some 15
regional retail banks (see paragraphs 14 and 15 below). During the last quarter of 1994 a
number of cooperative banks arranged mergers either among themselves or with regional
retail banks. During the first quarter of 1995 this process gained momentum, actively
encouraged by BCRA, as a response to the liquidity crisis. As of mid-April 1995 there
were 11 remaining cooperative banks, 5 mergers involving cooperatives only and 4 mergers
involving cooperatives and regional retail banks. These are listed in Annex F.
11.   Owing to the recent frenzied pace of merger activity, and the fact that four of the
mergers have involved acquisitions by, or mergers with, regional retail banks, it is difficult
3 These are: Extrader, Fiiansur, Basel and Multicredito



- 83 -                             ANNEX  P
to present recent aggregate statistics of the cooperative banks. However as of end February
1995 the cooperative banks accounted for around 14 percent of private banks' aggregate
assets and about 16 percent of total capitalization4.
12.   The cooperative banks typically have medium sized branch networks (20 to 40
branches) in one geographical region of a province, a characteristic they share with the
regional retail banks. Since the onset of the liquidity crisis they have typically lost 15 to 20
percent of their peso deposits and 0 to 5 percent of their dollar deposits. However because
it has been difficult for these banks to call in their loans, which are predominantly to the
agricultural and small business sectors, their current liquidity has declined more than
proportionately, and several have been obliged to borrow from the call market (where
available) or from the BCRA/BNA "safety net." Overall, the portfolio quality of the
cooperative banks appears to be rather poor, owing to the effect of the recession on the
interior, particularly in certain provinces (e.g. Santa Fe), and many of these banks show
shortfalls in their provisioning levels.
13.   Banco Federal S/A, which is a consortium bank owned by 25 cooperative and
regional retail banks, has suffered a decline in deposits of over 25 percent, putting severe
strain on its liquidity and obliging the bank to borrow heavily from BCRA/BNA. Banco
Federal is likely to be one of the first candidates for restructuring under the Trust Fund.
Regional Retail Banks
14.   This final group of around 20 banks is varied, ranging from Banco Buen Ayre, a
medium-sized bank with a branch network in Greater Buenos Aires, to smaller regional
banks in Mendoza, C6rdoba, Santa Fe and Buenos Aires provinces. Many of the smaller
banks in this group have been rather slow to modernize their premises, update their
information technology and retrain their staff and consequently they have been gradually
losing market share to the large retail banks with a territorial network.
15.   Several of the smaller regional retail banks, notably those which are members of the
Federal Group, have participated in the series of recent mergers described in paragraph 10
above. Several of these banks show capital deficiencies if shortfalls in provisions are taken
into account. Most of the regional retail banks have suffered declines in deposits and
liquidity similar to those of the cooperative banks.
B. Capitalization of Banks
16.   The potential capital shortfall in the domestic private banking system has been
estimated by comparing the figures for actual capital with those for the minimum capital
required by BCRA and making adjustments for shortfalls between actual loan-loss
4   Cooperative banks' total assets were US$ 6,193 million and total capitalization was around US$1 billion.



- 84 -                            ANNEX  P
provisioning and the classification of the banks' loan portfolios according to the latest BCRA
prudential regulations (Comunicaciones A 2216 and 2218). This method has provided the
likely minimum capital shortfall of banks with a capital deficiency. The total estimated
shortfall amount to US$392 million.
17.   There are several banks with capital above minimum requirements. The six large
domestic retail banks account for over 50 percent of the excess capital in the private banking
system. This demonstrates that they would be best placed from a capital viewpoint to act as
acquiring banks in merger transactions. The foreign banks as a group have relatively little
excess capital, but of course they could call upon capital transfers from abroad to fund
interesting acquisitions. The cooperative and regional retail banks show small capital
surpluses before adjustment, and in many cases capital shortfalls after adjustments for
additional provisioning. Most of the wholesale banks show capital surpluses, even after
adjustment, reflecting the reduction in their minimum capital requirements following their
asset sales and consequent shrinkage in their balance sheets.
C. Classification of Banks
18.   For purposes of analysis, the private domestic banks in Argentina have been classified
into five ratings, using 14 parameters measuring liquidity, solvency, capital adequacy,
portfolio quality, provisioning, profitability and operational efficiency. The detailed
methodology is described in Section D below.
19.   The descriptions of the bank ratings are as follows:
A     Very liquid, solvent, very strong capital position, good management -
could acquire other banks without financial assistance;
B 1   Liquid, solvent, strong capital position, good management - could
acquire other banks but could require some financial assistance
to do so;
B 2   Some deficiencies in liquidity, adequate capital, adequate
management - less likely to be able to acquire banks except without
substantial financial assistance / could survive alone but would
probably benefit from merger with a stronger bank;
B 3   Serious deficiencies in liquidity, solvency and/or capital adequacy,
probable poor management - strong target to be acquired by a strong
bank;
C     Very poor liquidity, solvency, capital adequacy, and/or management -
liquidation candidate unless taken over by a strong bank.



- 85 -                               ANNEX  P
20.   These descriptions are similar to those used by the SEF in its own 5 category rating
system (1 to 5). SEF ratings are unavailable to the public. Categories A and B 1, which
coincide fairly closely with the SEF's categories 1 and 2, are the most appropriate to be
acquiring banks in the merger and acquisition program, although some banks in category B 2
(SEF's category 3) may be suitable candidates, given credible merger plans and appropriate
assistance from the Trust Fund.
21.   The table below shows the numbers of domestic private banks in each rating category,
based on data as of end February 1995, but reflecting mergers and acquisitions consummated
or agreed up to mid-April 1995. The foreign banks are not included in this table, because
only the 10 largest of the 31 were rated (of which A four, B1 three, B2 two and B3 one).
RATING    PRIVATE S/A    COOPERATIVE    MERGERS5               TOTALS
A            5                1                                 6
Bi1          5                16
B 2         18               4                  6              28
B 3         12               3                  6              21
C            9               3                  3              15
TOTALS    49                 12                 15             76
D. Bank Rating Calculation Methodology
22.   The bank ratings A through C were calculated using a composite scoring system of 14
weighted parameters measuring liquidity, solvency, capital adequacy, portfolio quality,
provisioning, profitability and operational efficiency. These parameters are specified in
detail in the table following paragraph 24 below.
23.   Method of Calculation. Values of each of the 14 parameters were calculated, and
point counts were assigned to the ranges of values of each parameter. The points scored for
each parameter were then weighted: (i) according to the following scheme
*     liquidity      40%
*     solvency       30%
*     assets         20%
*     results        10%
5 Of the 15 mergers during the last six months, eight of the new institutions are legally constituted as
cooperative banks and seven as commercial companies ( S/A - Sociedades An6nimas). However it is likely that a number
of the cooperative banks will be converted into commercial companies in the months ahead.



-86-                              ANNEX  P
and (ii) according to the period to which the data refers:
*     1/31/95      30%
*     2/28/95      70%
The resulting weighted values were then adjusted by a "subjective factor" reflecting the
consultants' qualitative knowledge about each bank's management, present situation and
likely prospects. This subjective factor varied from 0.6 for the worst performing banks in
the sample to 1.1 for the leading domestic banks and 1.3 for the foreign banks. The higher
subjective factor for the foreign banks reflects, inter alia, their access to capital injections
from abroad.
24.   The resulting composite scores were then used to assign a bank rating according to
the following scale:
Range            Rating
0 <           composite score < 3    C
3 <           composite score < 5    B3
5 <           composite score < 7    B2
7 <           composite score < 8    B3
composite score < 8    A



- 87 -                                        ANNEX P
Table 1 - Parameters and Formulas
PARAMETERS                                                       FORMULA
Liquidity I-Immediate Liquidity
Cash/banks + quoted public bonds
Deposits
Liquidity 2 - Cash Money/Reserve
Requirement (pesos, $ + BONEX)                         Average Call money granted - Average call money received
Reserve requirements
Liquidity 3 - Structural Liquidity           Net worth-fixed assets-other assets-intangible assets-overseas branches-
Investments in quoted companies
Total liabilities
Liquidity 4 - Rediscounts                                                   BCRA loans
total liabilities
Solvency (Liabilities/Net Worth)                                           Total liabilities
Net worth
Capital-Excess or Deficit of Minimum
Capital/Net Worth                                               Excess or Deficit of Minimum Capital
Net worth (including profit & loss)
Assets-Irregular Portfolio/Net Worth
Overdue portfolio-self liquidating guarantees-50% preferred guarantees
Net worth (including profit & loss)
Assets-Irregular Portfolio less
Provisions/Net Worth
Overdue portfolio-self liquidating guarantees-50% preferred guarantees-provisions
Net worth (including profit & loss)
Assets-Irregular Portfolio/Borrowing
Overdue portfolio-self liquidating guarantees-50% preferred guarantees
Borrowing
Return on Assets
Monthly result
Total Assets
Return on Equity
Monthly result before tax
Net Worth
Efficiency-Costs less
Commission/Liabilities                                   Administrative Costs-Service Revenue + Service Costs
Total Liabilities
Efficiency-Costs/Liabilities
Administrative Costs
Total Liabilities
Efficiency-Deposits/per head
Total Deposits
Staff Complement



- 88 -                    ANNEX  0
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
ILLUSTRATIVE COMPONENTS FOR
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Diagnostic Phase
1.    External assessment of bank's financial situation including, inter alia;
*     Asset Quality.  Assessment should cover at least 70 percent
of portfolio and should consider the: (i) nature of classified
assets, (ii) nature of non-performing assets and rollovers, (iii)
adequacy of valuation reserves, (iv) current collection capacity,
(v) credit concentration, and (vi) potential insider lending.
-     Profitability. Assessment should include profit/loss analysis
based on adjustments for provisioning, refinancing of non-
performing loans, and overdue interest income.
*     Debts to BCRA.  Assessment of rediscounts and advances
received from the BCRA and the time schedule for
repayments.
2.    Management Review.
3.    Staff Review, including skills deficiencies and overstaffing.
4.    Existing Bank Policy Review, including:
*     Credit Policies. Assessment of credit analysis, lending
decision-making, asset classification and loss provisioning
methodology, and collection procedures.
*     Internal Audits. Formats for monitoring related borrowers,
classified exposures, loan concentration, and reporting of past
due accounts. Reporting relationships and enforcement power
of auditing function.
*     Risk Management. Assessment of asset and liability
management -- foreign exchange risk management, and interest
risk management.
*     Administrative Procedures. Identify technology and
information gaps. Organizational review. Decision-making
hierarchy.



- 89 -                   ANNEX 0
Preparation of Business Restructuring and
Institutional Development Plan
1.    Business Plan includes reforms to be undertaken to restore bank
profitability, include, inter alia:
Business Base and Strategy.
Capital Plan.
Funding Policies.
Liquidity Management Plan.
Agreed Restriction and Prohibitions.
2.    Institutional Plan includes changes in structure, management, and
personnel, including, inter alia:
Organizational Changes.
Management Reform.
Overhaul of Staffing.
Compensation Review.
Information, Monitoring, and Projections.
Implementation and Performance Monitoring
Steps include:
Plan Approval.
Agreement on Implementation Timetable and
Scheduled Monitoring.
Periodic Assessment of Agreed Milestones.
Joint Review and Plan Revision.
Sanctions for Non-performance.



41                                          -90-
ANNEX R
ARGENTINA
BANK REFORM LOAN
DRAFT LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
June 26, 1995.
Mr. James D. Wofensohn
President
The WVo,d Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This letter of Development Policy describes the economic reform program of the Argentine
Govemment as well as specific steps to deepen further the reforms in the financial sector. To implement
these roforms, the Govemment requests continued financial assistance from the World Bank. The
Bank's assistance is parUcularly needed at this juncture, as a result of the adverse impact thal external
developments, including the disruption of Mexico's economy, have had on capital tnflows and the stability
of the domestic financial sector.  We vwuld like to take this opportunity to also present the
macroeconomic framework which complements the reform program.
.. Macroeconomic Framework
2.    Price stability and sustained growth remain the centerpieces of the Govemment's economic
program, The Govemment has made important progress since 1991. To eliminate fiscal deficits that
were fueling inflation, the Govemment initiated profound stnrctural reforms. As a result, monthly price
increases dropped from over 30 percent at the beginning of 1991 to intemational rates in the second
semester of 1993. Inflation during 1994 was only 3.9 percent.
3.    By laying the basis for price stability, the Govemment has charted an agenda for the future with
the follovwng objectives:
*     the consolidation of stabillty through sttict compliance with Law N 23928 of
March 27. 1991 (the Convertibility Law), the preservation of fiscal equilibrium and the operaton
of a market economy wtth deregulated and unrestricted competitive markets, and regulation by
the state of non-competitive markets;
*     the strengthening of economic growth (annual GDP grovAh rates inoreased from
0.1 percent in 1990 to an average of 7.7 percent during 1991-1994) through Increased levels of
savings. Investment, productivity, pnvatization of public enterprises, private sector development
and exports, and an Intensification of trade, financial and technological integration of the
Argentine economy into world markets; and
*     the achievement of hlgher levels of employment and a more equitable
distribution of income, both at a personal and regional basis, through consolidation of economic
stability and growth, substantially increased public investment In human resource development
and social services, and measures to promote regional development.



*                                             - 91
c    4 e   de. F a fL a m  s, a
ANLiEX R
4.     Sustained economic recovery and improvements in welfare will continue to be achieved by
undertaking lasting structural reforms in the public sector, improvement in national savings, and policy
reforms that would continue to promote private sector activity through gains in productivity, lower
domestic taxes, and factor market Improvements. To ensure that the private sector remains the leading
expansionary force in the economy, the Govemment is committed to maintain flexible and open markets
free of domestic regulations and major external trade banters, and with a strong financial sector to
improve intermediation. The Govemment's program of market reforms covers the following areas:
(a) Open market economy: The government has totally eliminated controls on
prices, wages, interest rates, and capital nows as well as a complex network of subsidies and
implicit taxes. The Govemment Is committed to maintain such policles. Additionally, to facilitate
more ratlonal allocation of resources In the economy, and Improve international competitiveness
through the reduction of production costs and improvement of Incentives for productive
investment, the Govemment Is committed to promote structural reforms by introducing and
supporting legislation for (a) liberalizing labor markets; (b) streamlining banknrptcy legislation;
(c) reforming the health Insurance cooperatives; and (d) encouraging the reform of provincial
finances, including the reduction of inefficient taxes.
(b) Trade Liberalization: The Govemment has made rapid stiides towards
opening the economy, in terms of flows of trade, capital, and technology. Tle import tariff
structure has been simplified and the average tariff rate was lowered to approximately 14
percent. To the extent that additional tarilffs uere reimposed for fiscal reasons, it is the
govemment's intention to remove them as soon as practicable. Export laxes have been neariy
eliminated, and most quantitative restrictions and other procedures that slowed tihe entry of
trade, capital and technology have been removed, The Government will keep the economy
open to Intemational competition and will keep Argentina's antidumping provisions in line vith
the respective GATT code. Moreover, the MERCOSUR treaty came Into full effect in January
1995. As specifled in the Treaty of Asunci6n, the Govemment eliminated most intra-
MERCOSUR tariffs, dropped all other Intra-market trade barriers, and established a common
extemal tariff covering 85 percent of the positions in January 1995.
(c) Financial Sector Reform: Financial sector reforms have been aimed at
increasing financial deepening and the efficiency of financial intermediation. Following interest
rate liberalization in 1987 and the eliminaton of directed credit by the Central Bank, the
Govemments strategy has been to increase depositor and investor confidence.  Under the
Convertibility Law price stabilization, liberalized Interest rates, and tighter regulation and
enforcement of liquidity, capital adequacy and provisioning requirements were the chief reforms
that permitted financial deepening (M4) to increase from a low of 7 percent of GDP in 1990 to 19
percent In 1994. SImilarly, capital market reforms, including the elimination of transaction taxes
on securities trading and improvements in the regulation of public offerings, encouraged the
development of a major emerging market. Banks and non-bank corporations raised US$9.9
billion In equity Issues and registered USSd.5 billion In bond issues during 1990-1993. The
Govemment Is committed to maintain liberalized interest rates and to refrain from directing
credit allocation of financial institutions, and to further strengthen banking supervision.
S.    In the aftermath of the Mexico crisis, the Govemments immediate aim is to sustain past
achievements through deepening reforms. The Govemment has already taken far-reaching steps that
will consolidate stability and deflect the spillover effects from the crisis. Foremost among these changes
are a deepening of public and financial sector reforms. These will strengthen confidenrce In soverelgn
aebt, the financial sector, and the sustainability of the Convertibility Law The following sections discuss
these reforms as well as upcoming steps of the refonrn program.



e                                             - 92 -
ANNEX a
11. Public Sector Finances
The Federal Govemment
6.    The Govemment has undertaken a major effort to improve revenues through the implementation
of a much-broader and uniform VAT. The Govemment is also committed to further improve the
efficiency of the tax administration by Improving substantially audits and controls. The increased
reliance on more efficient taxes wll continue to allow the Govemment to eliminate or reduce
distortlonary taxes, while observing the fiscal targets established in paragraphs 8 and 18.  The
Govemment obtained Congressional approval of a law broadening the coverage of the personal assets
tax, submittod to Congress legislation to further restructure the public sector, and limit expenditures to
the social security system.
7.    The Govemment believes that the Impact on Argentina of the external shock that is affecting
Latin America will be contained and transitory In nature, as the fundamentals of the economy remain
strong. The reform process is deeply rooted, fiscal and monetary policies are sound and Ilte country's
medium term prospects have been strengthened. Exports are rising and investment increased by 18
percent In 1994. Nevertheless, the Govemment recognizes that the Intematlonal situation remains
uinsettled and that the decline in private capital inflows is likely to reduce GOP growsthi. The Govemment
has recast its fiscal program for 1995 so as to withstand a reduction in capital inflows and continue lo
service its maturing obligatlons.
8.    The 1995 budget was drawn up in the framework of a decline in the ratio of public expenditure to
GDP and a strong effort to reduce tax evasion. This budget also incorporated the government's intention
to further rationalize the national administration, including the privatization of nudear power stations.
Fiscal policies have been adjusted to generate an overall surplus In the national non-financial public
sector (excluding provinces) of Arg$2 billion, a surplus that will be used to amortize public debt. In
addition, the Govemment expects to raise US$2.4 billion during 1995 from privatization. including sales
of the Govemment's remaining holdings In a number of already privatized enterprises and the sale of
petrochemical plants and hydroelectric and nuclear power plants. The fiscal measures announced by the
Government in late February and March 1995 will yield some Arg$6.3 billon (2 percent of GOP) in the
remainder of 1995. or Arg$8.5 billion (2.75 percent of GDP) on an annual basis. These measures were
presented by the executive and approved by Congress In only two weeks, a clear signal of decisiveness
and political consensus. The measures Included:
a.                   expenditure cuts, including reductions in salanes of
public employees eaming $2.000 a month or more, with an expected
yield of Arg$1.0 billion in the remainder of 1995,
b.                  a temporary Increase (to be excluded frorm revenue-
sharing w4th the provinces) of 3 percentage points to 21 percent in the
Value Added Tax rate vAth an expected yield of Arg$2.2 billion;
c.                  Import tariff Increases with an expected yield of ArgSO.7
bIllion;
d.                   a partial roll-back of certain previous reductions in social
security contributions for agriculture, Industry, and tourism, coupled %tlh
a lowering of contribuUon rates for the services sector, with an expected
net yield of Arg$O.4 billion; and



4h                                             - 93 -
e.                   a broadening of the base of the VAT and income taxes,
a broadening of the bass and lowering of the rate oF thle wealth tax. new
failities for regularizing tax arreows, and a number of smaller measures,
largely In the area of social security, with an expected overall yield of
ArgS2.0 billion for 1905.
If required by circumstances, the Govemment will adopt furtner expenditure restraints to achieve the
basic principle of maintaining equilibrium in the public finances.
9.     The govemrnment's program for 1995 will maintain ancl deepen structural reforms. The Congress
is presently considerlng important laws which (i) modify the regulations on collective bargaining contracts
and associated employment risks, thereby improving the flexibility in the labor market and reduang labor
costs; and (ii) govem the reorganization of enterprises In bankruptcy proceedings. The newly approved
Social Security Solidarity Law, will reestablish maxlmum llmits for all beneficiares, eliminate the
automatic adjustment of benefits, apply the provisions of the Convertibility Law to the determination of
pensioners, and modify the associated legal proceedings. It vwill also allow the establishment of a limit,
that will dedcine as the number of pensions under the former social security systern diminishes, on
pension outlays, which have been an important cause of macroeconomic instability in recent years. The
program of provinGial reforms discussed below should reduce distortions In the tax system and result in a
permanent reduction in the size of the public sector that will Improve the allocation of resources and
increase overall economic efficiency. These and other reforms, together with the progressive extension
of instItutlonal changes to all govemmental jurlsdlctlons. will help to further strengthen the profound
institutional transformation of our country.
The Provincial Govemments
10.    Throughout the 1980s, deficits generated by provincial govemments vere major contributors to
the chronic instability of the Argentine public sector. Over the last three years. fiscal adjustment,
essential to she recovery of the economy, has occurred mainly at the federal level. The increase In
provincial govemment expenditures has exceeded the rise in revenues received from the Federal
Treasury under the revenue sharing arrangements and from their own resources, resulting in operational
primary deficits in the provinces of about 0.7 percenl of GOP in 1993 and 1994. At the same time that
provincial governments have lagged in making necessary fiscal adjustments, their role within the
economy has grovm as the result of the decentralization of many federal functlons. notably secondary
education and public health. Provinces are now the major providers of core public services in health,
education, security, water and sanitation, electricilty, and other infrastructure. However. most provinces
are ill-prepared to fulfill their Increasingly Important role, with negative implications for future economic
growth and meeting the needs of the poor.
11.    A major adjustment of provincial finances is expected for 1995, for sources of provincial deficit
financing are now exhausted. Provincial deficits in 1993 and 1994 were largely finaliced by the
reguilarization of debts oved by the National Administation to the provinces, by their shiare of the
proceeds from the sale of YPF, and in 1994 by issues of Treasury bonds amounting to ARG$0.6 billion,
.secured by shared revenues. These sources are now exhausted. In view of the current situation, the
Tressury will issue no bonds from now onwards on behalf of, or directed to the provinces. Moreover, the
Central Bank will not approve any addItional domestic borrowing by the provinces, including loans
guaranteed by shared revenues. Issues of debt for regularization of federal arrears will be lirnited to an
amount that does not exceed reductions in outstanding debt through the new tax moratorium. disctiarged
with public bonds, and debt-equity swaps from piivaUzations In excess of the US$2.4 billion mentioned
above (para. 8).



4                                               . 94 -
aD'A6'&o&o<  C Uooooms
ANNsEX R
12.    To assist in the adjustment of provincial finances, the Federal Govemment in the early lOgos
launched a concerted effort to regulaaize the transfer of co-participated federal revenues; reduce
unconditional discretionary transfers that reward poor fiscal performers; improvc local resource
mobilization; modemize and downsize public administration, Improve the provision of social seivices in
health and education; assume responsibility for, and reform, provincial social security systems: privatize
or close inefficient public enterprises; eliminate Central Bank rediscounts; promote pnvatization of
provincial banks; and more generally Improve the efficiency of allocation of resources In the provincial
public sector.
13.    To attain these objectives. the Federal Government's strategy for provincial reforms is based on:
(a) the Transformation Fund approved In April 1993; (b) the "Fiscal Pact" signed on August 1993: (c) the
Provincial Development Trust Fund (discussed in Section 1II).
14.    The Transformation Fund. In April 1993, a Transformation Fund funded chiefly tby the World
B1ank was estabilshed to finance stnictural adjustment measures in the provinces, funded, inter alia, by
further privatizatlons at the federal level.  To gain access to the Transformation Fund, adjusting
provinces must enter Into an agreement with the Ministry of Interior taking measures aiming at. (a)
improvements In local resource mobilization: (b) Improvements in the efficiency of expenditures; and (c)
reduction in the size of the provincial banking sector.
15.    Fiscal Pact.  In August 1993, the Federal Govemment proposed a "Fiscal Pact",  w4hich
principally calls for reforms In provincial tax systems to reduce producer costs. and increase local tax
revenues, consistent vwth the earlier proposed Transforrnation Fund. In retum, the Federal Government
agreed to Increase minimum co-participated transfers, postpone, and possibly forego, certain provincial
debt obligations, and take over responsibility for funding provincial social security .systems.
16.    To reducc tax and other regulatory distortions and Improve the fiscal situation and performance
of the provinces, the Federal Govemment, in context of the 1993 "Fiscal Pact", is seeking from
provinces to:
a.                   substitute the tumover tax by a consumption tax in order
to reduce the cascading nature of the provincial tumover tax;
b.                   eliminate the highly distortlonary provincial stamp tax;
c.                   reduce property taxes to 1.2 percent for rural properties,
1.35 percent for- semi-rural properties, and 1.5 percent for urban
properties. The maximum fiscal value of properties Is fixed at 80
percent of their market value;
d.                   eliminate provincial labor, financial, and energy taxes;
e.                   use co-participating transfer exceeding  an  agreed
amount, to cancel debt obligations, finance investments, or provincial
adjustment programs that have been approved by the national
govemment;
f.                   intensify tax collection and control, witli piovinces
adopting a uniform system of tax reporting and collection, as developed
by the national tax directorate (the DGI); and



*                                              -95-
6/                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX R
6.                   deregulate professional activities, eliminate restrictions
on wholesale and retail sales, further deregulate the transport sector,
and make compatible federal and provincial regulations of the medicine
and food markets.
17.   In t(ne context of the Fiscal Pact, the Federal Govemment has the obligation to accepl the
transfer of provincial social security sy.stems, and harmonize contributions and pensions witth tle newly
approved national social security system. Additionally, the Federal Government will support the
privatization of public enterprises, and reduce the role of provincial banks through privatization of
ownership and control.
Consolidated Public Finances
18.    To sustain low levels of Inflation, and the stability of the financial system, the federal authorities
are committed to seeking a consolidated (including provinces) puAblic sector fiscal balancc, or better,
excluding privatization revenues, over the 1995-97 period.
19.   To further strengthen fiscal accountability at the provincial level, the Federal Govemment by end
of 1995 will seek to standardize budgetary reporting from all provinces, Including both current and capital
expenditures, and their financing, according to the principles contained in Law of Financial Management
and Performance Control (Law N 24.156). Standardized provincial financial statements vwen available
will be made publicly available by the Federal Govemment. which wil also present on an annual basis
the financial conditlon of the consolidated public sector.
Ill. The Financial Sector
20.    Argentina's financial sector Inciudes 3 federal banks, 29 provincial banks in considerable
distress, about 31 foreign-owned banks, some 20 cooperatives, and about 57 private banks. Thiere are
significant differences in size, with the top 20 banks accounting for about 60 percent of deposits. There
are major differences in profitability, with the provincial banks showing the lowest rates of return.
Differences in profitability are largely due to differences in costs and credit pollcies. Small banks and
provincial banks tend to have higher costs, and pubilc banks tend to have a higher non-performing
portfolio. The Govemment believes that privatization of public commercial banks and consolidation Will
be healthy for the banking system, by enhancing efficiency and financial soundness. The policies
described below wilt implement an orderly process of privatizatlon of provincial banks and strengthening
of the bani'ng system-
21.   Thess policies are particularly urgent in view of recent event in intemational capital markets.
Argentina's financial and capital markets suffered a major setback as a result of the disruption of
Mexico's economy in late 1994. The spillover effects on depositor and investor confidence led to a 20
percent decline in bank deposits betveen December 20, 1994 and March 21. 1995, to a standstill In
corporate bond issues and to Wide swAngs in the stock market. The outflow of deposits led to sharp
increases in interest rates, with prime rates rising to 33 percent in U.S. dollars and 49 percent in
Argentina pesos in mid-March (increases of 25-33 percentage points since December), and call money
rates which at times reached over 70 percent. Despite progress achieved In raising the capital adequacy
of financIal Institutions, some institutions In certain segments of the banking system, including small
wholesale banks, credit cooperatives, and provincial banks, were affected by the loss of depositor
confidence.
22.    To help banks meet deposilt losses, the Central Bank created some Arg$5.8 billion in additional
liquidity, through lowering reserve requirements In several stages. creating a facility for assisting
distressed banks through Banco de la Naci6n. and extending swaps and rediscounts. Average reserve



4                                             - 96 -
w  T6SXsy 6s,,6f  8SG
ANNEX R
holdings (including cash-in-vault) declined from 21 percent at end-December 1994 to about 14 percent In
mid-March 1995. About Arg$4 billion in liquidity w"re provided through these reductions. To fund the
facility managed by Banco de la Naci6n, the Central Bank assigned 2 percentage points of reserve
requirements (equivalent to about Arg$800 million in additional liquidity). Finally, additional liqajidity of
Arg$1 billion has been supplied through Central Bank swaps and rediscounts. Liquidity assistance
through Central Bank rediscounts was leveraged by amending the Central Banks Charte- to allow the
Central Bank to extend rediscounts for periods exceeding 30 days and for amounts in excess of each
commercial banes net worth. All liquidity assistance has been extended within the constraints Imposed
by the Convertibility Law.
23.    The Govemment's aim is to ensure that commercial banks will be stronger than they have been
to withstand the shocks that may come from time to time as a result of extemal events. The recent
crises prompts a unique opportunity for a commerclal bank restructuring program that strengthens
confidence in the system.
24.    To restructure the banking system, the Govemment will Implement: (i) a trust fund to pnvatize
provincial banks and (II) a trust fund to assist in the restructuring of private banks. The Government
expects to finance these funds with new loans from the World Bank, IDB, with bonds (Bono Argentina) In
the amount of $2 billion being floated In the domestic market and abroad, and possibly with loans
obtained through pledging YPF shares. The authorities have earmarked these resources to finanee
privatization of provinclal banks and consolidation and restructuring of private banks.
25.   The Govemment's long-term vision is for a more efficient, strengthened. and competitive
financial sector. To achieve this aim, the Government Wil consider further reforms to develop: (I)mutual
money market funds, (ii) the leasing Industry, (iii) a deeper and more transparent stock market, (iv) the
private placement market, (v) more efficient trading and settlements system, (vi) secondary markets for
govemrnent debt, and (vil) the market for asset-backed securities. The Govemment is aware of the
recommendations made in the Bank's Capital Markets Report (Rep. No. 12903-AR) issued in December
1994 and plans to give active consideration to measures which can strengthen and develop tle capital
market.
Provincial Bank Privatizaio
26.    One central objective of the Govemment's financlal sector restructuring policy program is to
achieve privatization of provincial banks. It is the policy of the Government to encourage provincial
govemments to sell all of their shareholdings In provincial banks, If possible. In all cases the percentage
sold to the private sector will exceed 51 percent In most cases this percentage wil not fall below 60
percent to assure reasonable robustness of the privatization as provincial govemments will continue to
exercise addled influence by virtue of remaining the most important customer in many cases.
27. Privatizatlon Will be implemented through the Provincial Development Trust Fund (Fondo para el
Desarrollo Provincial). This fund will extend adjustment loans to provinces or provincial banks that agree
to sell a majority share and transfer full control of their banks to private shareholders. The timetable for
privatization of provincial banks cannot be specified as It depends on sovereign provincial decisions.
Nevertheless. given the incentives to be provided by the Provincial Development Trust Fund, the
Government expects that some fifteen provincial banks will be privatized within the next two years. The
authoritIes have set a two year limit for the Provincial Development Trust Fund which appears desirable
and achievable.  However, should the envisaged limit prove to be Insufficient to cornplete the
pnvatization of all targeted provincial banks, the Trust Fund's operations would be extended as
appropriate. The first three provinces to prlvatize their banks are likely to Include Mendoza, Misiones
and Formosa.



4n                                             - 97 -
ANNEX R
28.    The Provincial Development Trust Fund Wil carefully review privatization plans which include
exclusive arrangements for newly privatized banks to manage the finances of the provinces. If such
arrangements are contemplated, these should be extended for a maximum of three to five years and
their pricing should be part of the bidding process.
29.    Pnvatization vwll address the long-standing poor performance of provincial banks, %kich
undermined financal sector efficiency and made fiscal balance more difficult. Accounting for 25% of
assets in the banking system, these banks not only have higher costs of operation, but also have
followed imprudent lending polcies. These have translated into losses to provincial govemments, further
undermining their owin very poor financial performance. Further, slo8er overall deposit growth in 1994
and major deposit withdrawals during January-March 199 severely undermined their liquidity positions.
30.    Pubilc ovnership has preempted arms-length decisions In lending and other operations and has
not provided a managerial commitment or an overriding interest in profit maximizatioin.  Through
privatization it is expected that the newly emerging private banks will focus on profit maximization and
financial soundness and that the Central Bank supervision and enforcement of liquidity, capital adequacy,
and provisioning requirements for these banks wil be more offective. The newly privatized banks wall be
subject to the regulatory framework established by the Superintendency of Fiunancial Entities, w4iich will
have the power to close the prlvatized banks. Stronger management and supervision of provincial banks
wiil reduce the risk that these banks generate systemic runs on bank deposits. Stronger supervision will
be supported by continuing improvements of the regulatory framework and Institutional development of
the Superintendency of Finanuial Entities, vhich will continue to seek technical assistance as needed.
Furthermore, pnvatiza(ion will Improve provincial finances by eliminating the continuirng losses that
provincial bank generate.
31.   If privatization does not materialize and provincial authoritles do not act on closure, the Central
Bank will promptly (within one year) apply sanctions, Including wthdrawal of the provincial bank from the
clearing  mechanism, to provincial banks that do not meet required liquidity or capital ratios.
Furthermore, the Central Bank will not extend operating licenses to new provincial government banks.
Privatization or closure Is expected to brIng about a downsizing as only a limited share of assets and
liabilities is likely to be acquired by the private sector. All non-privatizable assets and liabilities would be
transferred to a residual entity which the provincial govemments would liquidate. Special attention will
be given to the timely and efficient disposal of any residual assets and llabilities.  Provincial
Govemments will be requested to define specific additional financing plans, should the assigned
financing (para. 24) be Insufficient to cover all residual liabilitles.
Private Bank Restructurinu
32.    A major objective of the Government's financial sector restructuring policy program  Is to
strengthen (he efficiency and long-term financial position of private banks. A number of private banks
have been under distressed financial conditions as a result of the Mexico cnsis. The govemrnment has
introduced a program to sirengthen private banks by inducing restructuring and consolidation. These will
be achieved where necessary through recently enacted legislation empowering the Central Bank to
mandate the transfer of assets and liabilities of failing institutions to other institutions and throughi the
newiy created Bank Capitalization Trust Fund (Fondo Fiducieaio de Capitalizacik.n Bancana). The Fund
will be liquidated following Implementation of Its objectives or two years after Its establishment; however.
Its life may be extended.
33.    The private bank recapitalization pmgram will assist In the ongoing consolidation of Argentina's
banking system. Only 20 of Argentina's 100 or so private commerclal and cooperative banks have
assets above Arg$250 millon and only 6 banks have assets in excess of Arg$1 billion. Consolidation
has beeni induced by liquidity problems of the smaller banks caused by investor reallocation of deposits



4s                                             - 98 -
C?d  {& ,t#j. a'z  o^5f;. t(Mom4*b
y  l       jhrc   ,; &&o Yg^s06 e 6'4;oef
,ANNEX R
to the larger and better banks. Many cooperatives have already consolidated through mergers and some
wholesale banks. which suffered particularly acute deposit Withdrawals, have been selling their assets to
prime private commercial banks. The Capitalization Trust Fund is aimed at producitig an orderly
consolidation cum capitalization of the banking sector without crealing further crises of :onfidence. The
Fund will support mergers and acquisitions that result in stronger banks.
34,   The Govemment is committed to ensure that bank consolidations result in strong institutions. To
Implement this commitment, the Central Bank Wil not approve and the Capitalization Trust fund will not
support acquisitlons or mergers in which the acquiring bank is weak or has lower than minimum capital
requirements. To qualify for Tnrst Fund support, banks must fully meet tier one capital requirements, as
determined by updated credit reviews. in addition, the Central Bank Will ensure that the merger
ownership and managerilal structure of these institutIlons meet stringent "fit and proper" criteria, and will
closely monitor the progress of these institutions in meeting their development targets.
3S.   To provide further confidence and protection to depositors, the Central Bank has established a
private Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). The Dlf provides limited coverage per person per Institutlon up to
a maximum of $20,000. The DIF has been established with mandatory contributions trom all financial
Institutions. Contributlons will be different acmss banks according to risk ratings assigned by the
Superintendency. In addition, the govemment has strengthened the protection to depositors provided by
Article 48 of the Law of Financial Entities. The new provision asslgns the total amounts deposited at the
Central Bank under reserve requirements to cover deposils up to $5,000 per person. The Government Is
committed to seek acceleration of mandated commercial bank contributions to the DIF
36.   It remains govemment policy to revoke (he operating license of a financial institution that fails to
meet liquidity and capital requirements. In defense of depositors, the government has allowed the
Central Bank to restructure a falling financial Institution prior to revoking its license. Two Instruments are
provided. One allows the Central Bank to mandate Increases of the institution's capital as well as lihe
sale of equity shares to other authorized investors or shareholders. The other allows the Cenlral 13ank to
exclude assets and liabilities from a financial institution to transfer them to another institution and lo
approve proposals to match the maturities of assets and liabilities financial Institutions. The Government
is committed to implement these provisions without delay on institutlons that fail to redress shortfalls In
capital requirements. Central Bank liquidity assistance is extended only to viable banks. In that
connection, Govermment Will seek means to see that situations Involving outstanding cxtraordinary
liquldity assistance are quickly resolved and that any bank receiving BCTF assistance will not require
new liquidily assistance beyond the normal limits of the SCRA.
Triust Fund Operations
37.   The Govemment has established the Bank Capitalization Trust Fund to deal With the
restructuring of weak or distressed banks willing to abide by Trust Fund rules goveming acqulsitlons or
mergers or restructuring.  These principles wAIl be issued in appropriate Ministerial and BCRA
Resolutions
38.    The Trust Fund itself derives Its resources from the proceeds of the issue of Argentina bonds
pJaced domestically and abroad, and totallilng $2.0 billion, as well as $500 million requested from the
World Bank. The Fund will make loans for (a) recapitalization (debt of maturities between 5 and 8
years), and (b) refinancing of outstanding extraordinary assistance from or on behalf of the OCRA (loans
of up to 3 years maturity). The Trust Fund will not offer any loans or refinancing in the absence of a valid
acquisition, merger or recapitalization transaction following the agreed Operating Pnnciples and
Procedures (OPP). The Trust Fund will, depending on its actual loans, consider its maturity structure and
seek additional longer-term funding as deemed necessary.



4                                            - 99 -
ANNE 
39.   It is the intention of Govemment to ensure that all banks receiving assistance from the BCTF
fully meet capital adequacy requirements. In providing recapitalizatlon from the BCTF, the limits will be
10% of nsk-adjusted assets for restructuring, 15% for mergers, and 25% for assets acquired In
acquisitions. It is understood that no more than 10 percent of total BCTF resources will be devoted to
restructurings. The authorities agree to consult the World Sank prior 1o undertaking any transaction
which appears to belong to point 12 of the OPP agreed with the Bank, and to limit any suc) transactions
to a maximum of 5 percent of BCTF resources.
40.   The authorities are mindful of the Inherent rilsks of the Trust Fund and actively seek to minimize
them. In this regard, the Central Bank and the Trust Fund will closely scrutinize the quality of merger
transactions. The authoritles therefore agree that transactions involving at best a 3-rated bank will
require special attention in the form of up-to-date external audits, a current valuation of capital adequacy
based on current asset valuations, appropriate steps to increase tier one capital as needed to fully meet
prudential requirements, and the preparation within 80 days of a Trust Fund transaction of a business
plan by whiich the SEF can Judge performance. Merged banks will be subject to an Intensive supervision
schedule.
41.   The authorities do not intend to provide BCTF resources to banks not meeting minimum tier one
capital requirements. It is understood that BCTF recapitalizatlon finance in a restructuring operation will
be given on a one-to-one matching basis wth new ownership capital. Qualifying banks vill agree to
undergo a financial and institutlonal diagnostic exercise, yielding a business development and
InstitutIonal development plan, to be approved by the BCRA and be appropriately monitored and
enforced.
42.   The Govemment made a major commitment to upgrade the Superintendency by restaffing,
seeking extemal technical assistance, and designing and Implementing new procedures. Since 1994,
over 100 new bank examiners were hired and significant organizational changes were miade. New
divisions for Information management and supervision followvng were created. As a result (the quality of
supervision has dramatically Improved, and the BCRA Is committed to furiher Improvements. It intends
to continue the cooperative relationship between the SEF and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to
help with training and internal assessment of progress. In addition, the SCRA intends tl undertake a
joint assessment with the World Bank to arrive at appropriately agreed follow-up stops, to be
Implemented as a action program. The Govemment firmly believes that strong supervision Is essential
to preventing lapses in depositor confldence in the banking system. and that the maintenance of
confidence is essential for the continued stability of the system.
43.   The BCRA remains committed to its original goal of on-site Inspection of all banks during 1995.
These inspections follow the new enhanced surveillance procedures enacted in parallel with tUe full
CAMEL ratings In early 1994. In addition, the authorities agree that any financial entity receiving Trust
Fund loans will be subject to intensive supervision and wVIl be required to meet all prudential regulations.
The Central Bank will ensure compliance wlth pnrdentIal regulations by applying the enforcement action
and resolution procedures that are provided by the Law of Financial Entities and the Charter of the
Central Bank
IV, Monetary Pollcy
44.   Monetary policy will continue to be govemed by the Convertibility Law, which requires full
backing of the monetary base wth intematIonal resefves. According to the law. U.S. dollar-denominated
Govemment bonds held by the Central Bank can be used to cover up to 20 percent (33 percent in



e                                            -100-
y        %i  e'o^,  de g^ oo n0 o .m6
ANNEX R
emergency situations) of the monetary base. Credit expansion by the Central Bank to tlie public sector
and the financial sector will be limited in accordance with the Convertibility Law.
45.   The Govemment Is confident that with the measures that have been taken to strengthen fiscal
and financial policies - and the support of the IMF, the World Bank. the IDB, and other institutions --
confidence will be restored and capital outflows reversed, strengthening bank liquidity. In lhis context,
the Central Bank during the balance of the year expects to reduce outstanding Swaps and redisoounts,
and gradually restore legal reserve requirements so as to recover an adequate margin of liquidity, wiich
would be reflected in a recovery in Its holdings of gross international reserves. It Is expected that the
recent measure (March 10. 1995) allowing banks to hold part of the reserve requirements in the form of
cash-in-vault will be reversed partly by end-June, and fully by end-November.
V. World Bank Support
46.   The above presentation demonstrates the depth ao the Govemment's overall public sector and
financial sector reform programs. The Government belleves that financlal assistance from the World
Bank is essential to implement financial sector s(ructural reforms. Implementation of the proposed
measures would Improve the fiscal balance Of the provincial govemments and confidence in the financial
sector, thereby reducing threats to rnacroeconomic stability.
ODrri-ngo FelipeC
Minister of 



IBRD 26842
70          BOLIVIA                      60        |                                5
PARAGUAY
San Salvador
0 de Jujuy
Salto @
,Tucum6n
Santiago    Resistenc,o               >      B R AZ I L
@ del Estero          00, Posaa
Catamarca 0
La Rioia0E
30
30-
0an Juan S   @   Santa Fe
San Juan oC6rdaoba                   D 0  and
Mendoza                         0
0 @      San Luis            Rasario
0                             t URUGUAY CA
BUENOS AIRES 0
La Plata
Santa Rosa
@
Mar del Plato0
LU 
Bahia B anca
Neuquen0
U                                                 A R G E N T I N A
Carmende        0    Selected  Cities                 40-
Pota gones
Viedma          0    Province  Capitals
()  SNational Capital
Rawson@                            Province  Boundaries
International Boundaries
MILES 0     1 00   200   300   400   50 0
KILOMETERS 0       200     400      600     800
50
Rio Gallegos                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~The  boundaries, colors,  5
0>2_                                      denominations and  any
other information shown
on  this  map   do   not
imply, or  the  part of
The World  Bank  Group,
any judgment on the legol
Lshiaio                   ~     ~~~~~status  oDf any  territory,
kshuaio                          or any  endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries.
80a                       70o                     60'                      50'
APRI L 1 99 5









IMAGING
Repcort No: P--    661 2 AR
Type: PP



