Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3926-AR
Loan Agreement
(Bank Reform Loan)
 between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 18, 1995
Loan Number 3926-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 1995, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 26, 1995, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the private banking sector of the Borrower's economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently 
needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
Page  2
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCRA" means Banco Central de la Republica Argentina, the Borrower's 
Central Bank;
(b)
"BCTF" means Bank Capitalization Trust Fund ("Fondo Fiduciario de 
Capitalizacion Bancaria") established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 445 of 
March 28, 1995;
(c)
"BCTF Operating Principles and Procedures" means the operating principles 
and procedures for BCTF as approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section 
5.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Deposit Guaranty Fund" means the deposit guaranty fund ("Fondo de 
Garantia de los Depositos") created by the Borrower's Decree No. 540/95 of April 12, 
1995;
(e)
"Eligible Recapitalization Transaction" means a bank acquisition, merger 
or restructuring financed by BCTF in accordance with the BCTF Operating Principles and 
Procedures through a subordinated loan of not less than 5 years' maturity;
(f)
"Eligible Transactions" means Eligible Recapitalization Transactions and 
refinancings of liquidity support in accordance with the BCTF Operating Principles and 
Procedures through a secured loan of up to 3 years' maturity;
(g)
"Enhanced Surveillance and Inspection Schedules" means: (i) for all banks 
receiving Extraordinary Assistance (as defined hereinafter): inspections carried out 
at least semi-annually and intensive monitoring through review by BCRA of the 
information collected through, inter alia, special inspection reports; and (ii) for 
all banks receiving BCTF financing: inspections on at least a semi-annual basis unless 
the bank has a rating of 1 or 2 as determined by SEF (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
"Environmentally Hazardous Goods" means goods prohibited to be imported 
under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party; 
(i)
"Extraordinary Assistance" means extended liquidity assistance provided 
by BCRA in accordance with Article 17 (c) of its charter, as amended;
(j)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding $167,000,000 
to be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;
(k)
"Performance Benchmarks" means the following criteria for satisfactory 
resolution of BCTF-supported transactions: (i) the bank meets all its prudential 
capital requirements and has adequate liquidity, the last full inspection was made 
according to a schedule approved by the Bank, and the bank has not received new 
Extraordinary Assistance, all as certified by BCRA; or (ii) the bank is being 
restructured in accordance with the provisions of Article 35 (bis) of the Borrower's 
Law of Financial Entities (Ley de Entidades Financieras, Law No. 21.526 of February 
14, 1977, as amended);
(l)
"Resources" means cash and BCTF loans as reported on BCTF's balance 
sheet;
(m)
"Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding $167,000,000 
to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or referred to 
in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(n)
"SEDESA" means Seguro de Depositos Sociedad Anonima, the mixed enterprise 
Page  3
authorized to be established by the Borrower's Decree No. 540/95 of April 12, 1995 for 
the administration of the Deposit Guaranty Fund;
(o)
"SEDESA Documents" means SEDESA's charter ("Acta Constitutiva") and 
SEDESA's bylaws ("Reglamento Interno") as approved by the Bank pursuant to paragraph 5 
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(p)
"SEF" means Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras y Cambiarias, the 
BCRA's superintendency of banks;
(q)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, 
No.34/Rev.3 (1986); and
(r)
"Third Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding $166,000,000 
to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or referred to 
in paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
hundred million Dollars ($500,000,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on August 
15 and February 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  (a) BCRA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BCRA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to 
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the 
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts 
of not less than $1,000,000.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
Page  4
after the disbursement of the First, Second or Third Tranche which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under 
the Program, including any action specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement, in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third 
Tranche audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than two months after the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account has been made under each of the First Tranche, the Second 
Tranche and the Third Tranche, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report in respect of the expenditures under the Third 
Tranche, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(d)
The Borrower shall appoint the auditors referred to in paragraph (b) (i) 
above not later than thirty days after the respective dates on which final 
disbursement of the proceeds of
the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche have been made.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, promptly after the respective dates on which 
disbursement of the proceeds of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche 
have been made, deposit into the BCTF funds equal to the respective amounts disbursed 
under the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall cause BCTF:
(a)
to consult with the Bank prior to financing any transaction that would 
require any exception to the BCTF Operating Principles and Procedures (in accordance 
with the provisions thereof) in order to obtain the Bank's opinion on whether the 
transaction would undermine the achievement of the objectives of the Program;
Page  5
(b)
promptly after it makes any loan, to forward to the Bank all such 
information about the loan and the transaction financed by it as the Bank may 
reasonably require; and
(c)
only to finance transfers under Section 35 (bis) of the Borrower's Law of 
Financial Entities (Ley de Entidades Financieras, Law No. 21.526 of February 1977, as 
amended) that: (i) are carried out under competitive and transparent procedures, (ii) 
involve qualified bidders; (iii) have been audited by external auditors; and (iv) have 
received a favorable opinion from BCTF's legal advisor and SEF.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)
the BCTF Operating Principles and Procedures have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated or waived without the prior approval of the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the Program; 
(b)
the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Program;
(c)
the Borrower's financial crisis resolution procedures are being carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower's Law No. 24,485 of April 12, 
1995 and, in the judgment of the Bank, said crisis resolution is being implemented in 
a satisfactory manner, based on information contained in a report prepared by BCRA, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on outstanding liquidity lines of credit, 
forbearance of any prudential regulations, major shifts in portfolio quality, and on 
any other subject reasonably required by the Bank;
(d)
BCRA is applying the Enhanced Surveillance and Inspection Schedules;
 
(e)
the BCTF Operating Principles and Procedures have been approved by the 
Bank, have been made effective, and have been used in at least one Eligible 
Recapitalization Transaction; and
(f)
at least $167,000,000 has been paid into BCTF.
 
Section 5.02. The date January 17, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y
Page  6
Obras y Servicios Publicos,
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250, 5to piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121950 AR
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Jose Armando Caro Figueroa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
imported during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
Page  7
       525                --          Radioactive and
                                      associated materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones, unworked
                                      or worked
       718             718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof; fuel elements
                                      (cartridges) non-irradiated, for
                                      nuclear reactors
       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch cases)
                                      and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for goods imported prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for such goods imported before that date but after March 
15, 1995;
    (d)     expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
    (e)     expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
    (f)     expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
    (g)     expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $25,000,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs; and
    (h)     expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent may be required by the Bank upon 
the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached:
(a)
$167,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank;
Page  8
(b)
$334,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(iii)
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank.
5.
If, after an exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is not consistent with the objectives of the Program or the progress achieved 
or actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, 
then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
 
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings.
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
 
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
 
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings.
Page  9
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
August 15 and February 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each 
installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
Page  10
paragraph 1, be payable after August 15, 2010, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured:
1.
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures 
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such 
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the 
Bank; and
2.
by other purchasers:
 
(a)
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
(b)
in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under 
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement
 Section I.
Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) (Second Tranche)
 
1.
BCTF has made loans for Eligible Recapitalization Transactions in an amount of 
at least $167,000,000, subject to a maximum (for the purpose of calculating said 
amount) of $60,000,000 per bank acquisition, $40,000,000 per merger, and $20,000,000 
per restructuring, and provided that (a) the transactions financed by such loans 
satisfy the Performance Benchmarks, (b) the transactions and the loans made to finance 
them are fully in accordance with the BCTF Operating Principles
and Procedures, (c) Eligible Recapitalization Transactions other than bank 
acquisitions or mergers do not exceed $60,000,000 in the aggregate, (d) pre-funding of 
Page  11
the Deposit Guaranty Fund by the Borrower of up to $50,000,000 may be counted as 
Eligible Recapitalization Transactions for the purpose of calculating said amount of 
$167,000,000, (e) BCTF's Resources amount to no less than $501,000,000, and (f) not 
more than 10 percent of the amount that is the sum of the Resources of BCTF plus 
$167,000,000 have been used for Eligible Transactions involving neither a bank 
acquisition nor a merger.
2.
BCTF is operating in accordance with the BCTF Operating Principles and 
Procedures and has received funding adequate to carry out its mission in accordance 
with the Borrower's Decree No. 445 of March 28, 1995; provided, however, that: (a) any 
transactions the financing of which required an exception to the BCTF Operating Rules 
and Procedures, do not, in the opinion of the Bank, undermine the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program, and (b) the aggregate amount of the loans made to
finance such exceptional transactions does not exceed 5 percent of the amount that is 
the sum of the Resources of BCTF plus $167,000,000, except that the amount represented 
by said 5 percent may be increased, up to a maximum of $50,000,000, by the amount that 
the full 10 percent limit stated in paragraph 1 (f) of this Section I has not been 
utilized.
3.
The Bank has received, and has found satisfactory, the annual audit report of 
BCTF for BCTF's most recently completed fiscal year.
4.
SEF and the Bank have reviewed SEF's policies and procedures and have agreed on 
a course of action for the further strengthening of SEF.
5.
The SEDESA Documents have been approved by the Bank, SEDESA has started 
operations, and contributions to the Deposit Guaranty Fund have been made in 
accordance with the schedule established by BCRA.
6.
The Borrower's financial crisis resolution procedures are being carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Borrower's Law No. 24,485 of April 12, 1995 and, 
in the judgment of the Bank, said crisis resolution is being implemented in a 
satisfactory manner, based on information contained in a report prepared by BCRA, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on outstanding liquidity lines of credit, 
forbearance of any prudential regulations, major shifts
in portfolio quality, and any other subject reasonably required by the Bank.
7.
BCRA is applying the Enhanced Surveillance and Inspection Schedules and the Bank 
has received a report from BCRA, acceptable to the Bank, showing the profile of bank 
classifications and providing inspection schedules.
Section II.
Actions referred to in Section 4 (b) (Third Tranche)
 
1.
BCTF has made loans for Eligible Recapitalization Transactions in an aggregate 
amount of at least $334,000,000, subject to a maximum (for the purpose of calculating 
said amount) of $60,000,000 per bank acquisition, $40,000,000 per merger, and 
$20,000,000 per restructuring, and provided that (a) the transactions financed by such 
loans satisfy the Performance Benchmarks, (b) the transactions and the loans made to 
finance them are fully in accordance with the BCTF Operating
Principles and Procedures, (c) Eligible Recapitalization Transactions other than bank 
acquisitions or mergers do not exceed, in the aggregate, $60,000,000 plus the amount 
of Eligible Recapitalization Transactions referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Section I 
of this Schedule, (d) pre-funding of the Deposit Guaranty Fund by the Borrower of up 
to $50,000,000 less the amount referred to in paragraph 1 (d) of Section I of this 
Schedule may be counted as loans for Eligible Recapitalization Transactions for the 
purpose of calculating said amount of $334,000,000, (e) BCTF's Resources amount to no 
less than $834,000,000, and (f) not more than 10 percent of the amount that is the sum 
of the Resources of BCTF plus $166,000,000 have been used for Eligible Transactions 
involving neither a bank acquisition nor a merger.
2.
BCTF is operating in accordance with the BCTF Operating Principles and 
Procedures and has received funding adequate to carry out its mission in accordance 
with the Borrower's Decree No. 445 of March 28, 1995; provided, however, that: (a) any 
transactions the financing of which required an exception to the BCTF Operating Rules 
and Procedures, do not, in the opinion of the Bank, undermine the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program, and (b) the aggregate amount of the loans made to
finance such exceptional transactions does not exceed 5 percent of the amount that is 
the sum of the Resources of BCTF plus $166,000,000.
3.
The Bank has received, and has found satisfactory, the annual audit report of 
BCTF for BCTF's most recently completed fiscal year.
Page  12
4.
SEF has made progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in implementing the course of 
action referred to in paragraph 4 of Section I of this Schedule.
5.
The Deposit Guaranty Fund and SEDESA are functioning in accordance with the 
provisions of the Borrower's Law No. 24,485 of April 12, 1995, Decree No. 540/95 of 
April 12, 1995, and the
SEDESA Documents, and contributions to the Deposit Guaranty Fund are being made in 
accordance with the schedule established by BCRA.
6.
The Borrower's financial crisis resolution procedures are being carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Borrower's Law No. 24,485 of April 12, 1995 and, 
in the judgment of the Bank, said crisis resolution is being implemented in a 
satisfactory manner, based on information contained in a report prepared by BCRA, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on outstanding liquidity lines of credit, 
forbearance of any prudential regulations, major shifts in portfolio quality, and any 
other subject reasonably required by the Bank.
7.
BCRA is applying the Enhanced Surveillance and Inspection Schedules and the Bank 
has received a report from BCRA, acceptable to the Bank, showing the profile of bank 
classifications and providing inspection schedules.
