Page  1
April 24, 1997
Dr. Roque Benjamín Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
    y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1310 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Dear Sir:
Loan No. 3926-AR (Bank Reform Loan) - 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated October 18, 1995, between Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) for the above referenced Loan.
We are pleased to advise you that the Executive Directors of the Bank have 
approved a simplified disbursement procedure under structural adjustment operations.  
In order to implement such decision, and to add new optional third tranche release 
conditionality at your request, we propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Whereas (A) of the Preamble is amended to read as follows: 
"WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 26, 1995, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the private banking sector of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Private Banking Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment 
to the execution of the Private Banking Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Private Banking Program during the execution thereof;".
2.
A new Whereas (B) of the Preamble, to read as follows, is inserted immediately 
after Whereas (A): 
"(B) the Bank has received a letter dated April 19, 1995, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the financial sector of the provinces of the Borrower 
(hereinafter called the Provincial Finance Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Provincial Finance Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Provincial Finance Program during the 
execution thereof; and". 
3.
Original Whereas (B) of the Preamble is relettered to be new Whereas (C).
4.
Paragraph (a) of Section 1.01 is amended to read as follows:
"(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
‘ "Project" means the programs, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.’;".
5.
Paragraph (b) of Section 1.01 is amended by replacing the word "program" with 
the word "programs".
6.
The following paragraphs are added at the end of Section 1.01:
"(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
‘Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.’;";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
‘The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures 
in the 
Page  2
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the  purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of 
the United Nations.’;";
(e)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.".
7.
The references to paragraphs 4 (a) and 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
in Section 1.02 (m) and (r), respectively, are replaced by references to Section 2.02 
(d) (i) and (d) (ii), respectively.
8.
Section 1.02 (q) is amended to read as follows:  " ‘SEF’ and 'Superintendency of 
Banks’ each means Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras y Cambiarias, the BCRA’s 
superintendency of banks;".
9.
The word "and" is deleted at the end of paragraph (q) of Section 1.02; the 
period at the end of paragraph (r) of Section 1.02 is replaced by a semi-colon; and 
the following paragraphs are added at the end of Section 1.02:
"(s)
‘Deposit Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; and"
"(t)
‘Municipal Banks’, ‘Municipalities’, ‘Privatization Trust Fund’, 
‘Privatization Trust Fund Documents’, ‘Provinces’ and ‘Provincial Banks’ have the 
respective meanings set forth in Section 1.02 of the May 5, 
1995 loan agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank with regard to Bank loan 3878-AR.".
10.
Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Private Banking Program 
and the Provincial Finance Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d) 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account:
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of $167,000,000, 
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Private Banking Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(C) 
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with the objectives of the Private Banking 
Program; and
Page  3
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn 
from the Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
$334,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
(A)
(I) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Private Banking Program; (II) that the 
actions described in Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (III) that the Borrower's 
macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the 
objectives of the Private Banking Program; or
(B)
(I) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Provincial Finance Program; (II) that 
the actions described in Section III of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (III) that the Borrower's 
macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the 
objectives of the Provincial Finance Program.
(e)
If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph (d) above, 
the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Private Banking Program (applicable for purposes of this paragraph 
(e) in the case of withdrawals based on evidence referred to in paragraph (d) (i) and 
(ii) (A) of this Section) or the Provincial Finance Program (applicable for purposes 
of this paragraph (e) in the case of withdrawals based on evidence referred to in 
paragraph (d) (ii) (B) of this Section) or that the actions taken are not satisfactory 
or that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy is not consistent, as the case may be, 
with the objectives of the Private Banking Program or the Provincial Finance Program 
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall have not achieved progress 
or taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, or the 
Borrower's macroeconomic policy 
framework shall have not become consistent with, as the case may be, the objectives of 
the Private Banking Program or the Provincial Finance Program, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof."
11.
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Private Banking Program, the Provincial Finance Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Private Banking Program and the Provincial Finance Program, in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the First, Second or Third Tranche which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Private Banking Program or of the 
Provincial Finance Program or any action taken under the Private Banking Program or 
under the Provincial Finance Program, including any action specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement, in paragraph (d) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement.".
12.
Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.02. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
two months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  4
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.".
13.
Section 3.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, promptly after the date on which 
disbursement of the proceeds of the Third Tranche has been made based on evidence 
referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (B) of this Agreement, deposit into the 
Privatization Trust Fund counterpart funds equivalent to the respective amounts so 
disbursed under the Third Tranche.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Privatization Trust Fund to be operated in 
accordance with the Privatization Trust Fund Documents.".
14.
Section 3.04 is amended to read as follows:  "The Borrower shall, promptly after 
the respective dates on which disbursement of the proceeds of the First Tranche, 
Second Tranche and (based on evidence referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (A) of this 
Agreement) Third Tranche have been made, deposit into the BCTF funds equal to the 
respective amounts so disbursed under the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third 
Tranche.".
15.
Section 3.05 (a) is amended by replacing the word "Program" with the words 
"Private Banking Program".
16.
A new Section 3.06 is added to read as follows:  "Section 3.06. The Borrower 
shall not cause or permit any funds to be transferred from the BCTF to the 
Privatization Trust Fund unless the Privatization Trust Fund Documents and the BCTF 
Operating Principles and Procedures so allow and the Bank has given its prior written 
no-objection to such transfer.".
17.
Section 4.01 is amended by deleting the word "and" at the end of paragraph (a) 
thereof; replacing the words "Program, or a significant part thereof" in paragraph (a) 
thereof with the words "Private Banking Program or the Provincial Finance Program, or 
a significant part of either"; replacing the period at the end of paragraph (b) 
thereof with the word "; and"; and adding a new paragraph (c) at the end thereof to 
read as follows:  "(c) any of the Privatization Trust Fund Documents has been amended, 
repealed, abrogated, terminated or waived, in whole or in part, by any of the parties 
thereto, or any new rules or agreements that affect the operation of the Privatization 
Trust Fund are adopted or entered into by any said party or by any other entity, so as 
to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the execution of the 
Provincial Finance Program.".
18.
Sections 5.01 (a) and 5.01 (b) are amended by replacing the word "Program", 
wherever it appears therein, with the words "Private Banking Program and the 
Provincial Finance Program".
19.
Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 1 to this letter.
20.
Schedule 3 is deleted and Schedule 4 is renumbered as Schedule 3, with:  its 
title modified to read "Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement"; 
the title of its Section I modified to read "Actions referred to in Section 2.02 (d) 
(i) (Second Tranche)"; the title of its Section II modified to read "Actions referred 
to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (A) (Third Tranche)"; the word "Program", wherever it 
appears in said Sections I and II, replaced with the words "Private Banking Program"; 
and a new Section III entitled "Actions referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (B) 
(Third Tranche)", to read as set forth in Attachment 2 to this letter.
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date this letter in 
the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Bank receives one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
Paul Meo
Acting Director 
Country Department I 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Roque Fernández 
Authorized Representative
Date: February 27, 1998
Attachment 1
"SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
SITC, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods; and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures:  (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
Page  6
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Attachment 2
"Section III.  Actions referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (B) (Third Tranche)
1.
(a) The amount equivalent to the Third Tranche (as such term is defined in 
Section 1.02 of the May 5, 1995 loan agreement between the Borrower and the Bank with 
regard to Bank loan 3878-AR), deposited by the Borrower in the Privatization Trust 
Fund in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of said May 5, 1995 loan 
agreement, has been fully committed by the Privatization Trust Fund for disbursement 
in support of specifically identified Municipal Bank or Provincial Bank transactions 
eligible for Privatization Trust Fund financing; and (b) in the case of each such 
specifically identified transaction, at least one third of said fully committed amount 
for the transaction has been fully disbursed by the Privatization Trust Fund for the 
transaction.
2.
The Bank has received a certified copy of an audit report by external auditors 
acceptable to the Bank of the records and accounts of the Privatization Trust Fund 
after full disbursement of all the one third amounts referred to in paragraph 1 (a) 
above.
3.
A certified copy of the audit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of said May 
5, 1995 loan agreement in respect of expenditures financed out of the Third Tranche 
(as such term is used in paragraph 1 above) has been furnished to the Bank.
4.
BCRA, through the Superintendency of Banks, has appointed supervisors 
("veedores") in numbers and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank for the 
carrying out of the Provincial Finance Program."
