A--    I'S-/                   J - X
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
.[t'hj)lfi';p t'l E  'j1-Ys                            Report No. 9173-TH
; -:cp't         1     PH \1- @!;i!r! r      t tL A > 
MELP3 qA. D)Ah:. /<&4'i 1     P{  .  ,etr   AK.i IL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JULY 29, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of October 1990)
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$1 - B 25.0
Bl - US$0.04
GOVERNMENT AND EGAT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
bpd         -         barrels per day
kV          -         kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA         -         kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA         -         megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW          -         kilowatt (1,000 watts)
km          -         kilometer
MW          -         megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh         -         kilowatt-hour (1,003 watt-hours)
GWh         -         gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
kcal        -         kilocalorie (3.97 British thermal units)
MMcfd       -         million standard cubic feet per day
MMBtu       -         million British thermal units
MMt         -         million metric tonnes
tcf         -         trillion cubic feet
tpa         -         tonne per annum
toe         -         tonne of oil equivalent
MMtoe       -         million tonnes of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DIW         -         Department of Industrial Works
DMR         -         Department of Mineral Resources
ECCT        -         Energy Conservation Center of Thailand
EGAT        -         Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EIA         -         Environmental Impact Assessment
EIMP        -         Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan
ERR         -         Economic Rate of Return
FPO         -         Fiscal Policy Office
MEA         -         Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF         -         Ministry of Finance
NEA         -         National Energy Administration
NEB         -         National Envirounmental Board
NEPO        -         National Energy Policy Office
NESDB       -         National Economic and Social Development
Board
PEA         -         Provincial Electricity Authority
PDP         -         Power Development Plan
PTT         -         Petroleum Authority of Thailand
ROR         -         Rate of Return on Fixed Assets



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAIISND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(EGAT)
Guarsnt2r:                Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                   US$54 million equivalent
Lending Terms:            Repayable over 17 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Proiect DescriRtion:      The main objectives of the proposed Bank loan are:
(a) to assist EGAT in optimizing its investment
decisions and help meet the growth in power demand
over the medium term at least cost; and (b) to
strengthen the environmental regulatory agencies
in the power and mining sectors. The project
comprises two parts - Part A, which would be
carried out by EGAT and financed from the Bank
loan, would comprise sub-projects from ECAT's
investment plan for its fiscal years 1991 and
1992, including: (a) the Pak Mun Hydropower
project; (b) second stage of the Mae Moh Mine
expansion for power units number 8 and 9; and (c)
installation of an environmental monitoring
network at Mae Moh; and - Part B, which would be
carried out by Govarnment and financed from
bilateral sources and Government budget, would
comprise technical assistance, training and
procurement of environmental monitoring equipment
for the National Environmental Board (NEB), the
Department of Industrial Works (DIW), the
Department of Mineral Resourceu (DMR) and the
Public Works Department (FWD).
Benefits and Rigks:       In supporting the timely development of the power
sector, the loan to EGAT would a?lp sustain
Thailand's economic growth.  F>t.her, as the bulk
of EGAT's proposed investments ii power generation
is based on the use of domestic energy resources,
the proposed development plan would lead to
substantial savings in the import of fuel. There
are no major risks associated with the program.
Although EGAT's Power Development Plan is
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ised by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed %kithout Wurld Barik authori7tfion.



- ii -
ambitious, the utility's demonstrated experience
with system expansion and its state of
preparedness assure the Plan's successful
implementation. The strengthening of the
environmental regulatory agencies would contribute
towards an environmentally sound development of
the power and mining sectors. No major risk is
foreseen in the implementation of this project
component, except delays which may occur in
arriving at a consensus on the environmental
standards.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:
ocal       Freign          Total
EGAT's Investment Program (F',91-92)     ------(US$ million) -------
Thermal Plants                         b45           979        1,424
Hydro Plants                            46            87          133
Power Transmission                     168           285          453
Lignite Mining                          95            31          126
Miscellaneous                          125             0          125
Taxes and Duties                       225             0          225
Total Base Cost                   1.104         1       382  2,486
Contingencies
Physical                          76          101           177
Price                             31            28           59
Total Cost                        1,211         1 511        2,722
Interest during construction        211             0          211
Total Financing Recuired          1,422       1511          22933
Strengtheninn the Environmental
Renulatory Agencies                           Q           5il 7         $
Financing Pian:
Local      Foreign         Tgtal
----------(US$ million)-------
EGAT Investment Program
World Bank
Previous loans                        -            60           60
Proposed loan                         -            54           54
Other borrowing (from official         752         1,397        2,149
lenders, commercial banks, and
export credits)
EGAT                                   670                        670
Total                             1,422         1 511 2L933
Strengthening the Environmental Regulatory Agencies
Bilateral sources/Government budget    Q             5 7          5I



- iv -
Estimatad Disbursements:
Bank FY                        F92         Fm                       F
...........-  (US$  rt.llion)    -----
Annual                         8.0         24.0        17.0         5.0
Cumulative                     8.0         32.0        49.0        54.0
Rate of Return: 16X (on EGAT's investment program)
UR            : IBRD No. 22760R



X v a
THAIAD
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan and  Project  Summary    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR.1
A.   Overview    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .                                           1 . . . .
B.   Resource  Endowment   . . . . . . .                                                                1 . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .
C.   Energy  Consumption   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
D.   Organization  and  Planning  ....  .                     .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .     .    4
E.   Energy  Pricing and  Energy  Conservation    ...  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    5
F.   Private  Sector  Participation  in Power  Generation   .  . .  . . . .    6
G.   Energy  Sector  Strategy  and  Issues  ....  .                       .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    7
II.  THE  POWER  SUBSECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  . .    9
A. The Power Market.                                                 . . . . .                          9
B. CenLeracion and Transmission F.cilities . ...                                         .. 10
C.   EGAT's  Power  Development  Plan                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
D.   Past  Bank  Experience  and Sector  Strategy    . . . . . . . . . . .   12
III.THE BORRQ.                               . .  . . . . . . .                   . . . . . . . .  14
A.   Organization  and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .   14
B.   Staffing  and Training  ....               .       .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .    .   15
C.   Operational  Performance  ....  .                     .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .     .   16
D.   Financial  Management    .....                 .      .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     .   17
IV.  THE  BANK  LOAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   19
A.   Objectives  of  the  Bank  Loan  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . .   19
B.   Utilization  of  Proceeds  of  the  Bank Loan   . . . . . . . . . .  .   19
C.   Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
D.   Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
E.   Cost  Estimates    .....              .       .  .   .   ..   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ..   .     .   33
F.   Financing  Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
G.   Procurement           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
H.   Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    .....                 .       .   .   .     . ......   .       .   .   .   ..   .     .   38
A.   Past  Performance    .....              .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   38
B.   Present  Financial  Position   ....  .                       .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .     .   39
C.   Financial  Outlook  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   39
D.   Lignite  Mine  Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
E.   Subsector  Finances    .....              .        .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .     .   41
F.   Tariff  Levels  and  Structure  ....  .                      .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .     .   42
G. Financing Plan ........................ . 43



- vi -
VI.  PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   44
A.    Economic  Analysis   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   44
B.   Risks    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  45
VTI.AGREEMENTS LzEACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
A.  Agreements  ........  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..   .  46
B.    Recommendation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   47
ANNEXES
1.   Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
2.   EGAT's Existing Cenerating Capacity  . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . 49
3.   EGAT's Existing Transmission and Substation Facili.-ies . . . . . . 50
4.   EGAT's Demand Forecast.  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
5.   EGAT's Power Development Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
6.   Balance of System Load Requirements and Capabilities . . . . . . . 53
7.   Projected Energy Balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
8.   Pak Mun Hydropower Project: Technical Features and Cost Estimate.  55
9.   Mae Moh Minc Expansion: Technical Aspects and Cost Estimate  . . . 57
10.  Mae Moh Mine and Power Development .61
A. Environmental Impact Assessment - Summary
B. Environmental Monitoring Network
11.  Demand-Side Management and Electricity Conservation:
Consulting Study -- Terms of Reference  . . . . . . . . . . . 71
12.  The EnvironDmental Regulatory Agencies and Environmental Standards
for The Power and Mining Sectors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
13.  Pak Mun Hydropower Project: Resettlement, Ecology
and Health Aspects .81
14.  ECAT's Investment Program FY91-92  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
15.  Disbursement Schedule ..................... . 93
16.  EGAT's Past Financial Performance  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 94
17.  EGAT's Financial Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
18.  Power Subsector Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
19.  EGAT's Tariff Structure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106
20.  Rate of Return on EGAT's Power Development Plan  . . . . . . . . .107
21.  Pak Mun Hydropower Project: Economic Analysis ......... . 108
22.  List of Documents in Project File  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .110
CHARTS
1.  EGAT's Organization Chart. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
2.  Pak Mun Hydropower Prolect: Construction Schedule. . . . . . . 113
3. Mae Moh Mine Expansion: Construction Schedule. . . . . . . . . 114
HAP
IBRD No. 22760R
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in
October 1990, comprising Darayes Mehta (Senior Power Engineer), Margaret
Hanson (Financial Analyst), Barry Trembath (Power Engineer), Dennis Bateman
(Mining Engineer), William Partridge (Anthropologist), Peng hing Tio
(Consultant, Environment), Stan Hirst (Consultant. Ecology) and Santasiri
SorDnmani (Consultant, Health). Peer reviewers were Karl Jechoutek and
Claudio Fernandez. The project was cleared by Mr. Gautam Kaji, Director,
AS2 and Mr. Inder Sud, Chief, AS2IE.



THAILND
THIRD POWER SXSTE DKEI/ELPHENT PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overvie
1.1          The social and economic transformation of the Thai economy over
the past 25 years has resulted in rapid growth in *nerg consumption. Most of
this growth was initially nmt by energy imports: at the tims of the 1979/80
oil crisis, Thailand's dependence on imported oil was in excess of 90X of
total primary commercial energy. In the ensuing years, however, efforts made
by the Royal Thai Government (RTG) to promote the development of indigenous
energy resources have had a visible impact on the pattern of commercial energy
consumption: the share of oil has fallen markedly, being reduced from 911 in
1977 to 641 in 1989, with that of imported oil down to 571. Conversely, the
shares of indigenous lignite and natural gas have grown steadily, reaching 101
and 241, respectively. This notwithstanding, the energy situation in Thailand
remains characterized by relatively modest commercial energy consumption in
relation to the country's development (369 tonnes of oil equivalent (toe] per
US$ million of GDP), with traditional energy, particularly fuel wood,
remaining the predominan suel in rural households. The outlook is therefore
for rapid growth in commercial energy consumption as the economy continues
expanding.
1.2          Within this general context, the power system in Thailand has
grown at a rapid pace over the past two decades. Considerable progress has
been made in making electricity widely available, especially in provincial
urban areas. Industrial consumption has also been growing rapidly. Overall,
growth in power demand has consistently exceeded that of commercial energy
consumption. This has resulted in a per capita electricity consumption in
Thailand (about 589 kWh in 1989) higher than the average for countries at an
income level similar to Thailand. Similar trends are expected to prevail in
the future as the country's industrial and socio-economic development
accelerates.
B. Resource Endowment
1.3          Thailand has a diversified energy resource base, consisting of
bio-mass, petroleum (oil and natural gas), lignite, hydropower, and geothermal
energy, the latter being still at an exploratory stage in the northern region.
Both natural gas and lignite are expected to gain greater prominence in the
country's energy balance as key fuels for electricity generation over the next
decade.



-2-
1.4          Thailand has a substantial potential for oil and gas: some 520
zillion barrels of l'uid (crude oil and condensate) and 16 tritlion cubic
feet (tcf) of gas (2.9 billion barrels of oil equivalen.) already have been
identified out of ultimate recoverable reserves estimated at 4-5 billion
barrels of oil equivalent.
1.5          Petroleum exploration has led to substantial gas discoveries --
in the Gulf of Thailand, by Unocal (previoumly, Union Oil) and Seagram
(previously, the Texas-Pacific Co.); and onshore at Nam Phong in the Khorat
basin by Esso. Proven and probable *conomicAlly recoverable gas reserves are
currently indicated at about 7 tcf. So far, only part of the Unocal reserves
have been brought into production, and output of natural gas is expected to
increase substantially in fuLure years as additional reserves are developed.
The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT), which owns and operates the
pipeline linking the Unocal fields to Bangkok, has recently negotiated with
Unocal and Esso for the purchase of additional quantities of gas. PTT has
also taken over the Seagram offshore concession area, which it expects to
bring into production by early 1994 under a joint-venture agreement with
Total, British Gas and Statoil. Additional gas volumes of about 150 million
cubic feet per day (MMcfd) by 1998 and 220 MMcfd by 2001 are expected to be
available from the offshore gas field in the neutral zone between Thailand and
Malaysia which is proposed to be developed by a joint Thai-Malay company.
Overall, gas production, which averages about 550 MMcfd at present, is
expected to reach 1,200 MMcfd by the year 2000. In spite of this large
projected increase in production, the volume of gas earmarked for power
generation would have been fully committed by 1996. For the longer term, PTT
is exploring possibilities of import of piped natural gas: (a) from the
Mataban fields in Myanmar over a distance of about 500 km (mostly offshore) by
the mid-90s; and (b) overland from Malaysia by the turn of the century.
Lignite
1.6          Thailand's coal resources are all relatively low grade, of the
variety generally categorized as lignite. Geological lignite reserves amount
to a total of 2.1 billion tonnes, i.e., 3.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent,
69X of which is in the Mae Moh basin in northern Thailand which has been
developed by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT).
Economically minable reserves are estimated at 1,330 million tonnes (MMt), of
which 1,152 MMt nre located in Mae Moh. Annual output at Mae Moh, currently
at a level of about 7 million tpa, is scheduled to expand continuously and
peak at around 31 million tpa by 1998, enough to support power generation of
about 4,700 MW. However, due to land acquisition problems at Lampang, a site
about 16 km from the existing Mae Moh site, there would be significant delays
in the commissioning of lignite-fired generating capacity. Potential for
additional lignite discoveries is good; recent nation-wide exploration by EGAT
has resulted in a number of discoveries, including that in 1987 of a major
deposit at Saba Yol in southern Thailand with potential reserves in excess of
200 MMt. There has, however, been a setback in the development of the Saba
Yoi mining site due to political and religious pressures, and lignite-based
power generation at Saba Yoi has been deferred to the year 2,000. Due to
delays anticipated in the commissioning of lignite-fired generating capacity



-3-
delays anticipated in the commissioning of lignite-fired generating capacity
both a.. Mae Moh (Lampang) and Saba Yol, it woull be neceisary to import coal
and establish coal-fired generation by as early as 1996 (para. 2.6).
HydrORpoer
1,7          Thailand's hydropower potential, excluding that of its two main
international rivers -- the Makong and the Salween -- is estimated at 11,700
KW. Of this, about 2,250 MW, with an annual generation capability of 5,250
GWh, have already been harnessed by EGAT. However, most of the potential
hydropower sites in Thailand are suitable for peaking purposes and there are
no major schemes that could be developed for base-load generation. The
successful exploitacion of peaking hydropower would, apart from its economic
viability compared to the next best option of peaking internal combustion
tutrbine generation, depend on the satisfactory resolutiorn of ecolog-lal and
resettlement issues which have begun to attract increasing attention from the
public and non-governmental org&nizaticns (NGOs). The hydropower potential of
rivers within Thailand is dwarfed by that of rivers forming the Thai frontier
with Laos and Burma. The development of possible sitei on the main rivers
would require agreement between the riparian pouers, including in particular
acceptable terms for ThailAnd to us^ a major part of the energy generated
since the other countries are unlikely to be in a position to absorb the
energy provided by such projects. Preliminary discussions have been iiltiated
for a possible joint project with MyarDar, while feasibility studies are at an
advanced stage for a hydropower project ir Laos.
Bio-ms
1.8          The process of moderrization occurring' in rural Thailand
notwithstanding, use of traditional fuels has remained predominant in rural
areas. About two-tairds of the reliance on bio-mass consists of charcoal and
firewood use by rural households (at the rate of abcut 10 MMtoe/year), and
consequently forests near inhabited areas have been heavily over-cut. The
remaining third of bio-mass supply consists of bagasse and paddy husks used as
fuel in the sugar and rice industries. Thailand suffers from an increasing
scarcity of wood fuels and other wood products, particularly in the northeast.
A Woodfuel Pre-investment Study was completed by the Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESMAP, Report No. 083/88) in February 1988; the study
recommends that the government aim at curbing further deterioration of the
country's bio-mass endowment by promoting the participation of the rural
population in reforestation efforts. A follow-up project, to be financed with
bilateral assistance, has been prepared for international donor agency
support. 'oncerps about the preservRtion of already dwindling forests macce it
necessar  in the long-term to switch to other forms of energy in rural areas.
C. Energy Consumption
1.9          Rapid economic growth in Thailand over the last two decades has
been accompanied by growing energy consumption. Final cowmercial energy
consvaption grew at an average rate of 5.5X between 1979 and 1989. The
sectoral composition of energy demand has been marked by a progressive
increase in the share of the transport sector, which reached 39X in 1988,



. 4
accounting f^r 70X of petroleuu products corsuwption.  Electricity cotnsuaption
has increased faster than anergy consumption as a whole, averaging 14X per
annum in the last three vears. As a result, the share of electricity in final
comercial enerry consumption has grown from 11 to 151 between 1979 and 1989,
with a similar increase in the share of electricity in primary energy use
(from 71 to 11).
D. Oreanization and Planning
1.10         A number of well managed public institutions operate in the
energy sector.  The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) -- the dominant
entity in the petroleum sector -- is responsible, intei Alia, for the
purchase, transport, processing and sale ef natural gas. The power sector is
organized around three state enterprises: EGAT is responsible for power
generation and transmission, while the Metropoll:an Electricity Authority
(MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) are responsible for power
distribution in the Bangkok metropolitan area and the rest of the country,
respectively. Highlights of the operations of EGAT, M.A and PEA are included
in Annex 1.
1.11         Energy bJctor policy and planning involve the National Economic
and Social Development Board (NESDB), which is under the Office of the Prime
Minister and oversees public irvestment planning; the National Energy
Adminiztrat'on (NEA), under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy,
which is primarily engaged in the promotion of energy conservation and the
development if renewable resources; the National Environmental Bcard (NEB)
under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy which is responsible for
developing environmental policy, establishing ambient quality standards and
approving environmental impact assessments; and the Department of Mineral
Resources (DMR) and the Department of Industries (DIW), both under the
Ministry of Industry, which are responsible, respectively, for regulating
petroleum and lignite exploration and production, and industries and private
power producers, on behalf of the government. The National Energy Policy
Committee, which acts on behalf of the Cabinet on al'l matters related to
energy policy and platming, with the National Energy Policy Office 'NEPO)
under the Prime Minister's Office serving as its secretariat, facilitates the
interface between the petroleum, power and refining subsectors.
1.12         While public enterprises engaged in the energy sector enjoy a
large degree of autonomy in the conduct of day-to-day operations, they are
subject to strict govenument corcrol in all matters related to investment
planning and financing. In particular, reflecting growing concern over public
sector indebtedness, recent government reforms have in;roduced stringent
procedures for the control of public debt. All loans made by public
enterprises requiring ,overnment guarantee must now he approved by the
National Debt Policy Comittes and by the Cabinet, and subsequently endorsed
by the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) of the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, in
1985 a National State Enterprise Committee was appoirnted under the Prime
Minister to monitor compliance by public enterprises witI  government
guidelines in the area of pricing. These procedures have nct affected the
efficient operation of the power utilities.



- 5 -
E.   Energy Pricing and Energy Conservation
Energy Prin
1.13         The government has been attentive to the need to set energy
prices at levels above international prices for traded commodities and
economic costs for non-tradables. The Oil Stabilization Fund, which was
established by the governsent in 1974 as a mechanism to dampen the effect of
large short-run movements in international oil prices on retail product
prices, and which was proposed to be progre-sively phased out, is currently
being maintained in view of recent heavy fluctuations in the oil prices. In
December 1987 the government took a major step towards -loating retail oil
prices by tying local ex-refinery prices to the world market through weekly
price adjustments based on Singapore posted prices. However, significant
distortions still exist in the relative price structure, particularly between
diesel and gasoline. The government is aware that such distortions may, over
time, encourage uneconomic decisions for refinery investments and interfuel
substitution, and it has taken steps to narrow down the remaining differences
to reflect more closely the structure of international prices and domestic
refining costs.
Ener&y Conservation
1.14         Concerned with the rapid growth in energy consumption and its
impact on the economy and the environment, the government is making serious
efforts towards fostering energy conservation in all sectors of the economy.
The Sixth Economic and Social Development Plan (1988-1992) has laid out a
policy framework for energy conservation which directs: (a) the establishment
of the Energy Conservation Center of Thailand (ECCT) charged with promoting
energy conservation through public awareness, consulting assistance, training,
inspection, research and development; (b) the Industrial Finance Corporation
of Thailand and other financing agencies to provide low-interest loans to
industrial factories which adopt energy saving processes and systems; (c)
reduction of taxes and duties on energy- efficient equipment and appliances;
(d) educational institutes to promulgate energy knowledge to stud6nts and the
public; (e) consideration for enacting an Energy Conservation Promotion law
mandating energy efficient designs for new industrial and commercial buildings
and systems, and improving features of existing ones; (f) governmexat agencies
to translate policy into action plans; and (g) promotion of transfer of
technology and close coordination in its exploitation between the government
agencies and the private sector. The aforementioned directives are currently
being put into practice by the National Energy Administration (NEA) and its
implementing arm, the ECCT. In the electricity subsector, the NEA, following
considerable research in energy efficient applications of electricity, has
formulated the Electricity Savings Plan for the Industrial, Commercial and
Residential Sectors. This plan, cleared by the National Energy Policy
Formulation Committee, was approved by the Cabinet in January 1990. The plan
estimates an overall savings potential of about 600 MW and 1,500 GWh p.a. and
proposes a three-year savings target of about 160 MW (of which about 88 MW is
during the peak period) and about 400 GWh p.a. Though modest in comparison to
the anticipated demand growth of almost 2,700 MW within the three-year period,
the plan is a step in the right direction, especially considering that the
savings are estimated to be achieved at a cost of about US$360 per peak kW



- 6 -
compared to about US$1,600 per kW of investment needed by EGAT alone in
generation and transmission.
Demand-Side Manaement and Electricity Conservation
1.15         Consumption of electricity in Thailand has hitherto been
primarily controlled through electricity pricing. Electricity tariffs have
been periodically raised in the past and except for sectoral distortions
generally reflect the long-run marginal costs of supply (para. 5.23).
Further, in compliance with agreements under the Bank's Loan 2915-TH, EGAT
introduced in January 1990 time-of-day rates for 9 large industrial consumers
to discourage use of electricity during system peak hours. Refinements in the
time-of-day rates and their more widespread application are expected to be
introduced in the near future. In keeping with the government's thrust
towards energy conservation, and in compliance with directives from NEPO, EGAT
together with MEA and PEA the other Thai utilities has started to explore
comprehensively the field of demand-side management (para. 4.9) which would
encompass the entire range of activities, whomever they may be initiated by
(tho utility or the consumer), that would influence the pattern and magnitude
of the utility's load. The objective of this study would be to formulate a
master plan for demand-side management and electricity conservation by the
Thai electric utilities (EGAT, MEA and PEA) and an ultimate integration of
demand-side planning and management with supply-side least-cost expansion
planning.
F. Private Sector Participation in Power Generation
1.16         Concerned over the magnitude of the public debt, the government
has been recently investigating ways of encouraging private sector
participation in the power sector. Potential approaches outlined by the
government to attract private sector capital into the electric utility
industry include: (a) commercialization of EGAT and sale of EGAT equity on the
securities markets; (b) sale of electricity to EGAT from utility-scale
privately owned power plants (i.e. establishment of Build-Own-Operate-Transfor
(BOOT) or related schemes); and (c) cogeneration (including generation from
residual fuels and renewable energy sources) with purchase of surplus
electricity by EGAT.
1.17         Commercialization of ECAT would involve appropriate modifications
to the legal and regulatory framework of the utility; establishing arms-length
fuel supply contracts; giving EGAT greater freedom to determine its investment
program; and applying subsidies for electricity consumption in a more
transparent manner. In this regard, EGAT solizited proposals from investment
banks and consulting firms to prepare an implementation plan for
commercialization and privatization of the utility and in October 1990
received six proposals; it hopes to award a contract in 1991. The work, which
would be done according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank, would be
divided into two distinct stages: (a) commercialization, and (b) the possible
listing of EGAT equity on Thai and/or as international stock exchanges. The
formulated plan to incorporate EGAT would proceed independently of the
goverDnment's decision to privatize the utility. Steps could be taken to
regulate the utility under an independent regulatory framework regardless of



- 7 -
the final decision about privatization. The consultancy work would take about
one year to complete.
1.18         Purchases of power from private producers under long-tezm
contract is another option. Ten plants included in the EGAT investment
program were selected in 1989 as candidates for full or partial private
ownership. For at least some of these plants, a B00-type approach could be
utilized and the private sector could construct, own and operate the plants,
with private financing secured by contractually agreed capacity and energy
payments from EGAT to the Independent Power Producer. EGAT has recently
proposed a variation on the BOO scheme, and suggests that the independently-
owned plants would be operated by EGAT, with the utility controlling the
maintenance and the dispatch of the plants. EGAT has identified two 700 KW
imported coal fired plants proposed for location at Ao Phai to be candidates
for the new approach. A solicitation package with technical and comercial
specifications for the Ao Phai plants is currently under preparation and is
expected to be released in 1991. A number of firms already have expressed
interest in bidding on the project.
1.19         Regarding cogeneration, although EGAT has drafted a solicitation
document to invite proposals for purchases of electricity of up to 50 KW per
plant, with total purchases for the system not to exceed 300 KW, legal
difficulties regarding EGAT's ability to require producers to sell to the
utility rather than to third parties have delayed implementation. If these
problems are overcome, EGAT would seek to purchase electricity from industrial
cogenerators and from small-scale systems based on agri wastes.
G. Energy Sector Strategy and Issues
1.20         To meet the rapidly increasing demand for energy, the
government's energy strategy calls for the following:
(a)   A substantially increased program of investments in the
power subsector. The government envisages investments of
about US$15 billion by EGAT alone over the next ten years.
Investments by PEA and KEA, the power distribution
utilities, over the same period are assessed at about
US$4.5 billion and US$2.5 billion, respectively.
(b)   Involvement of the private sector in funding part of the
large power sector investments. Concerned about the
magnitude of the power sector investments and the
implications for public sector debt, the government is
emphasizing the importance of a greatly enhanced role of
the private sector in sunding power projects. A
considerable amount of work is required to develop the
regulatory framework for private participation in the power
sector, either through build-own-operate-transfer type
operations or through a sale of EGAT equity on the
securities markets (paras. 1.16 to 1.18). The Bank is
working with the government and EGAT in this regard and



would expect to continue this relationship over the
implementation period of the proposed loan.
(c)   A rational development of domestic sources of energy and
exploration of possibilities for the import of fuel
following comitment of the domestic resources. In support
of its objective of increased reliance on domestic fuels,
the country is developing its large lignite resources and
has proposed the addition of about 4,000 MW of lignite-
fired power plants over the FV90 to FY01 period (para.
1.6). In addition, production of natural gas is being
given priority so that its use can be increased in the
power sector. While policies are in place for exploiting
domestic gas and lignite, these resources are limited, and
the government is actively considering import of piped gas
from Myanmar and Malaysia (para. 1.5) and coal from
regional coal-exporting countries (para. 1.6).
(d)   A thrust towards energy conservation.  Conservation which
had so far been accomplished mainly through economically
efficient pricing of resources, is now being more
forcefully addressed through a series of government
directives that are currently being translated into
concrete action plans (para. 1.14).
(e)   An increased emphasis on environmentally sound and
sustainable development. The increased investments in
power generation have also been accompanied in recent years
by an increased awareness of, and attention to
environmental issues, and the government is fully committed
to the development of the sector in an environmentally
sound manner. Environmental concerns in the next few years
will be focused on: (a) the impacts of rapid expansion of
the power and mining facilities at the existing site at Mae
Moh; (b) the ecological acceptability of hydropower
projects involving dams; and (c) the adequacy of the
existing environmental regulatory framework for formulating
policy and standards, enforcing compliance and aonitoring
the quality of the environment. Measures to strengthen the
sector's envirenmental capabilities are incorporated in the
proposed project (paras. 4.10 and 4.30 to 4.32)



- 9 -
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. The Power Market
2.1          Tha electricity market has grown at a very rapid pace over the
past two decades. Total sales of electricity and per capita consumption
increased from 467 GWh and 19 kWh, respectively, in 1961 to about
33,611 GWh and 606 kWh in 1989. Growth since 1980 has averaged 9.51 p.a.
(compared to an average GDP growth rate of 5.01). Over the years, the
industrial sector has become the majcr electricity consumer, accounting for
471 of electricity sales in FY89. Recent growth, however, has been fueled
largely by a substantial expansion in residential consumption both in urban
and rural areas. As a result, EGAT's daily load curves have shown an
increasingly pronounced evening peak. EGAT's study on Demand-Side Management
and Electricity Conservation (para.4.9) will address the issues concerning the
magnitude and shape of EGAT's load curve.
2.2          A sharp upsurge in economic activity in the late 1980s (GDP
growth was 10.4X in FY88 and 12.21 in FY89) has translated into much higher
than expected growth in electricity demand (151 in FY88 and 14.51 in FY89) and
the outlook is for continued rapid growth over the medium term. Taking these
developments into account, in October 1989 the national Load Forecast Working
Group (composed inter ali of NESDB, EGAT, MEA, PEA and NEA) revised its
official demand forecast. This forecast was further updated at the time of
appraisal in October 1990 when EGAT revised its least cost Power Development
Plan (para. 2.6).
2.3          EGAT's latest load forecast (Table 2.1) envisages a 14.51 growth
rate in electricity generation over the 89-92 period. This is reasonable in
view of the high GDP growth rate anticipated for the same period (8.21) and
the high historical elasticity of demand for electricity in periods of rapid
economic growth. The growth rates are moderated to 8.41 p.a. over 1992-97 and
6.91 p.a. over 1997-02. These projections have been endorsed by the
government as providing a suitable basis for planning purposes.
Table 2.1: EGAT'S LOAD FORECAST, 1989-2001
EX89        FY2Z         FY97          FY02
Peak Generation (MW)       6,233        9,029       13,190        17,842
Net Energy Generation
(GWh)     36,457       54,647       81,674      114,096
Annual Load Factor (1)       66.6        69.1         70.7          73.0
Growth RateA
(average 1 p.a.)
Peak Generation                   13.1         7.9          6.2
Net Energy Generation             14.5         8.4          6.9



- 10 -
B. Generation and Transmission Facilities
2.4          As of September 1990, EGAT's installed capacity was approximately
7,762 MW with another 3,665 HW under construction. Generating facilities
(Annex 2) consist of conventional thermal plants (562), hydropower (29x),
combined-cycle plants (12X) and combustion turbines (3X). Over the years,
EGAT has converted most of its oil-based thermal capacity (2,430 HW) to dual
oil/gas firing to take advantage of the increasing availability of natural gas
while maintaining the option to switch over to oil. Other thermal plants
include lignite-fired units (1,460 MW) and the remaining oil-fired units (388
KW).
2.5          EGAT's transmission facilities are tabulated in Annex 3.  In
addition to the construction of transmission lines and substations required to
evacuate the output of new generation plants, EGAT is progressively developing
a transmission system to serve various areas of the country. At present, EGAT
operates 17,770 circuit-kilometers (ckm) of transmission lines, including 326
ckm constructed for 500 kV.
C. EGAT's Power DeveloRment Plan
2.6          EGAT regularly updates its power development plan (PDP) in
response to changes in demand growth, fuel availability and price, and
earliest possible commissioning dates of candidate generating plants. Its
latest power development plan takes into account higher than earlier forecast
growth in demand in 1990 and anticipated delays in the comissioning of
lignite-fired plants at Lampang (Mae Moh site) and Saba Yoi (para. 1.6).
Salient features of the latest PDP (presented in Annexes 5,6 and 7) include a
three-year advancement in the commissioning date of the first imported coal
plant, the dropping of a 600 HW oil/gas fired plant and the advancement by one
year of the 600 MW gas-fired combined-cycle development in the south to meet
the demand of the Southern Seaboard. Table 2.2 summarizes the aggregate
capacity additions up to the year 2002. This indicates: (a) a substantial
increase in gas-fired combined-cycle capacity up to 1996 when current gas
reserves would be fully committed (para. 1.5); (b) a large lignite-based
development most of which would be towards the latter part of the century; (c)
a significant advancement in imported coal-fired capacity; (d) a modest
development of peaking hydropower and internal combustion turbine capacity;
(e) a minimal addition of oil/gas-fired capacity; and (f) no fuel oil-fired
capacity.



- 11 -
Tableu2.2:  EGAT's POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FY1990-2002)
(CAPACITY ADDITIONS IN MW)
Type of Facility                FY90-92       FY93-97        FY98-02       Total
Steam Plants
Natural Gas/Oil                   600           600             0        1,200
Lignite                           600           600           3,000      4,200
Coal (imported)                     0         1,400           2,400      3,800
Fuel Oil                            0             0               0          0
Combined Cycle                    1,477         1,555               0      3,032
Combustion Turbine                    0           400             200        600
Hydro                               180         1,116             456      1,852
Total                     2.857         5,671           6.056      14.684
2.7          The shares of various types of fuel in electricity generation are
expected to move as follows (Annex 7): (a) hydropower -- declining from the
current level of 9.6X to 6.2X by 2002; (b) natural gas -- increasing from the
current level of 36.9X to a peak of 40.9X by 1995 and then declining to 25.31
by 2002; (c) uel oil -- remaining at a level of about 30X till 1996 and
thereafter declining to about 201 by 2002; (d) lignite -- increasing from the
current level of 20.71 to 31.51 by 2002; and (e) imported coal -- starting
from 1996 and reaching a level of 16.21 by 2002. The fuel mix could change
significantly towards the latter part of the century if import of piped
natural gas from Myanmar and Malaysia and/or hydropower from Laos and Myanmar
were to materialize (paras. 1.5 and 1.7). These potential developments are
currently not taken into account in EGAT's planning process, but would be in
the future subject to firming up of import opportunities for natural gas and
hydropower.
2.8          EGAT's transmission program is aimed at extending high voltage
230 kV and 115 kV transmission facilities to all provinces of Thailand by the
mid-1990s. The extra high voltage 500 kV tranamission system, which is
superimposed on the 230 kV system, is required for bulk power transmission to
accommodate the large-scale development of lignite-fired power plants at Mae
Moh. EGAT's transmission development plan, shown in Table 2.3, is reasonable.
2.9          Overall, EGAT's PDP is appropriate to the present circumstances.
Project supervision would provide the Bank with an opportunity to review
regular updates of EGAT's PDP to monitor the impact of changes in power demand
and fuel supply scenarios on the composition and magnitude of power
investments. Understanding was reached at negotiations that EGAT will carry



12 -
out an annual review and update cf its 5-year investment program and keep the
Bank informed.
Table 2.3:  EqAT's TRANSMISSION DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FY1990-2002)
FY90-92      FY93-97        FY98-02      Total
Transmission Lines
(in cko)
500 kV                          666          481            760      1,917
230 kV                        1,151        1,935          1,078      4,164
115 kV                          895        1,693            145      2,733
Total                      2L712         4119          1 983      8,814
D. Past Bank Exoerience and Sector Strategy
Experience with Past Loans
2.10         The Bank has made 17 loans to Thailand for power, of which
fourteen have been made to EGAT and its predecessor for financing the
expansion of electricity generation and transmission facilities, and three to
PEA for rural electrification. Of the fourteen loans to EGAT, eleven have
been fully disbursed; the other three are progressing on schedule. All loans
to PEA have been fully disbursed.
2.11         In the last several years, EGAT completed four Bank-financed
projects for power generation: Bang Pakong Thermal (Loan 1690-TH) and Khao
Laem Hydro (Loan 1770-TH) in 1985, Pattani Hydro (Loan 1485-TH) in 1983 and
Power Subsector (Loan 2000-TH) in 1987. The corresponding project completion
reports and project performance audit reports highlight EGAT's financial
recovery following the oil price increases of the 1970s from a -2X rate of
return on revalued assets in FY79 to 10.8X in FY88. These projects were
completed on schedule and within the appraisal cost estimates with two minor
exceptions: the Khao Laem Hydro project was 12 months behind schedule and had
a 4X cost overrun because of unexpected complications in civil works, and the
Power Subsector project, was completed 15 months late and 511 under the
appraisal project cost estimate because inflation assumptions used to project
contingencies were higher than actual increases, and because one component of
the project was canceled. One relevant lesson learnt from previous experience
is that the cost of civil works for large power projects needs to be carefully
established so as to minimize the risk of substantial cost over-runs. For the
Pak Mun Hydropower project the civil works cost has been established based on
actual bids received.
2.12         Bank participation in the power subsector has helped EGAT to
develop into a technically competent and z."ficient power utility. The Bank's
association with PEA is also orientad towards achieving major institutional
improvements. Through its continuing dialogue with the subsector



- 13 -
institutions, the Bank has been instrumental in the implementation of adequate
overall electricity tariff levels, ensuring the sector's financial soundness
and the cost effectiveness of power generation investments. Bank-sponsored
sector work in investment planning and energy pricing also represented
significant contributions towards improving sector coordination. Overall, the
Bank's presence in the power subsector has helped ensure that utilities were
soundly managed and has encouraged other lenders to provide investment
financing for the iubsector on favorable terms.
2.13         In the lignite mining subsector, the Bank has made two loans to
EGAT to finance the development of the Mae Moh mine. The first loan (Loan
1852-TH), which financed expansion of production capacity from 1 million tpa
to 2.8 million tpa, was closed in April 1988 and a PCR has been prepared. The
second loan (Loan 2407-TH), supporting further expansion of production
capacity to 5 million tpa, closed April 30, 1991. Through these two projects
EGAT received substantial technical assistance that has led to improved
capabilities in all aspects of mining operations, including the exploration
for and evaluation of lignite reserves in other parts of the country.
Establishment of a mine accounting system separate from accounts for power
operations and the carrying out of a lignite pricing study have enabled the
monitoring of costs and establishment of an internal lignite pricing formula
based on appropriate economic and financial criteria.
Bank StrateiX in the Sector
2.14         The Bank has a close working relationship with key entities in
the energy sector (particularly in the power subsector) and EGAT and the
government like to continue borrowing from the Bank, though in modest amounts,
to benefit from Bank technical assistance. The Bank has been closely involved
in the financing of EGAT's power generation, transmission and lignite mining
investments in the past. Its ongoing participation assisting in the
formulation of sound investment decisions in a rapidly changing economic
environment is a logical continuation of this involvement. The proposed loan
would continue the time-slice financing approach initiated under the two
previous recent Power System Development projects (Loans 3027-TH and 3138-TH).
Through the proposed loan, the Bank would continue its ongoing work with the
power subsector and expects to provide a continuous review of EGAT's ?DP to
ensure that optimum investment programs are evolvod which can be supported by
various lenders. The Bank's continued involvement would also ensure that,
through adherence with agreed financial covenants, EGAT and the power
subsector are financially able to undertake and operate future system
expansions effectively. The Bank also expects to continue to assist EGAT and
the government in addressing some of the important sectoral issues, including
privatization, strengthening of environmental capabilities and energy
conservation.



- 14 -
III.  THE BORROW
3.1          The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT). EGAT was established in 1968 by a
merger of three generation and transmission authorities. EGAT operates as a
bulk supplier of electricity, relying on MEA and PEA for retail distribution
except for a few large industrial consumers. EGAT is owned wholly by the
Kingdom of Thailand and comes under the direct jurisdiction of the Prime
Minister. It is a well-run organization, capable of managing the substantial
growth in investment and electricity sales expected over the project period.
A. Organization and Management
3.2          EGAT functions as a modern public utility and enjoys a
considerable degree of autonomy in its day-to-day operations. Although
decisions concerning planning, contracting, pricing, and flnancing of
investment are subject to Government's approval, EGAT management provides the
predominant inputs. EGAT's operational and policy decisions are made by a
Board of Directors, which consists of a Chairman and not more than ten other
members, including the General Manager. With the exception of the General
Manager, the Board members, who are appointed by the Council of Ministers, act
in a part-time capacity. Implementation of the Board's decisions is the
responsibility of EGAT's management.
3.3          EGAT's operations are divided into seven divisions, each headed
by a Deputy General Manager: Administration, Accounting and Finance,
Hydropower and Transmission System Development, Thermal Power and Mine
Development, Transmission System Operation, Power Platnt Operation, and
Corporate Management. A separate department for Internal Audit reports
directly to the General Manager (see Chart 1). EGAT's organizational
structure appears to be sound and appropriate to its operational needs. A
review of the cost effectiveness of EGAT's organization and its operations was
included in the Second Power System Development Project (Lroan 3138-TH) and
will be carried out during the 1991-92 period.  Consultants are expected to be
appointed in 1991.
Hydro Power DeveloRment Directorate
3.4          The Hydro Power Development Directorate is responsible for
engineering and construction of new hydropower plants and for general
construction work on those projects. It comprises the following three
departments: (a) the Hydro Engineering Department, which has a staff strength
of about 300 and employs consultants to the extent necessarv to meet its
workload and to avail itself of expertise in specialized areas; (b) the Hydro
Construction Department, with a staff strength of about 590; it lets out work
on contract as required depending on the number of projects simultaneously
under construction; and (c) the Survey and Ecology Department, responsible for
topographic, hydrographic, hydrological, and geological surveys, and
environmental studies; it has a staff of about 700.



- 15 -
Lignite Mine Directorate
3.5          The Lignite Mine Directorate consists of a central office in
Bangkok And field offices in Mae Moh and Krabi. Two departments under the
Lignite Mining Directorate are the Mine Engineering Department (MED) and the
Mine Operation Department (MOD). MED consists of seven divisions and is
responsible for geology, mine planning, technical design and Krabi field
operations. MOD consists of twelve divisions and is responsible for field
operations and mine related activities on site. EGAT operates its mining
activities as separate profit centers with their own accounts and financial
statements. There is a separate Mine Accounting Section within EGAT's
Controller's Department. During negotiations. agreement was reached that EGAT
would continue to operate its mining activities as separate profit centers,
and maintain separate accounts and financial statements for each center.
Transmission System DeveloRment Directorate
3.6          The Transmission System Development Directorate is responsible
for the engineering, construction, and land procurement for EGAT's
Transmission System. It comprises the following two departments: (a) the
Transmission System Engineering Department which has a staff of about 460;
most of the engineering work is done internally, without consultant
assistance; and (b) the Transmission System Construction Department with a
staff of about 550; most of the construction work is contracted out.
Policy and Planning Directorate
3.7          The Policy and Planning Directorate includes the System Planning
Department, which is responsible for the planning of generation and
transmission projects and for economic studies, power system analysis, power
development programming and system planning, and financial forecasting. The
Department is well staffed and makes an extensive use of computer models,
whose scope and quality are among the best in East Asia. It also oversees
EGAT's electronic data processing activities; as such, it plans and installs
equipment, and develops and maintains all user software in relation to
teleprocessing within the corporation. In addition, the Directorate includes
the Department of Economic Policy, which is responsible for billing, tariff
rate schedule setting, and demand management, and the Corporate Planning
Office.
B. Staffing and Training
3.8          EGAT's management and staff are competent and well qualified.  As
of 1989 over half of the staff had received some form of higher education. The
number of university graduates as a percentage of total staff increased
substantially during the 1983 to 1989 period, rising from 12% to 17%. EGAT's
staffing ratio is four employees per MW installed. This ratio would be lower
except that EGAT carries out most of its field investigations, survey and
geological explorations using its own staff and maintains a large construction
force for the construction of access roads, site preparation works and
installation of equipment. EGAT's staff amounted to 31,797 as of September
30, 1989 (Table 3.1), of which about 6,000 are in temporary status. With the



- 16
proposed substantial increase in EGAT's generating capacity over the near-
term, the ratio of staff to installed capacity (Annex 1) will continue to
maintain a decreasing trend over the next several years.
JZktJ_1: 3SW STAPSO ZVOLUTIO
Incoease
19,3-8,
FY63  FY64  FY65  FY66  FY67  FtY6   FY69    2 p.a.
IMlv rsity graduates    3,600  4,366  4,632  4,610  5,210  5,479  5.52  6.6
Diplaima md hbgbeh
professional education  4,011  4,529  4,662  4,796  4,479  4,665  5,043  3.9
01gper vocational education    6,026  6,630  6,753  6,611  6,469  6,455  6,531  1.4
Others                 16,240 16,632 15,754  15,138 14,932 14,756 14,571    (1. 8)
DI                   30 077 32,157 31, 1  3117 3110 31.355 31J2IZ   -2
Source: rT.
3.9          Training falls under the overall responsibility of EGAT's
Administration Department. EGAT has three traini g centers for technical and
managerial training, with the largest center at the Bang Pakong Thermal Power
Complex. This center provides training in the operation and maintenance of
power plants and transmission systems, and is equipped with a replica
simulator of the Bang Pakong steam power plant. EGAT's training program is
comprised of three courses: (a) basic -- for apprentices; (b) upgrading --
for promotion to higher positions; and (c) management --   for senior
officers. Training is imparted both by in-house and external staff through
regular courses and special seminars, and is adequate to EGAT's needs.
3.10         EGAT's Lignite Mining Department also has a training center at
Mae Moh. In-house training is supplemented with training abroad financed
under bilateral grants. Continuing technical assistance has been provided by
the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, which has assisted in previous
lignite exp&nsion projects and offered specialized training to EGAT's mining
staff.
C. ORerational Performance
3.11         EGAT operates its plants and equipment satisfactorily.  EGAT
conducts regular maintenance within stipulated intervals, but while the
standards observed for major maintenance work are satisfactory, further
improvement is expected to be achieved through the introduction of a
computerized maintenance management system (Loan 3027-TH). Likewise, a
critical review of all facets of EGAT's operations is being carried out in the
context of Loan 3138-TH; this should be useful in further improving EGAT's
operational efficiency. Power losses, including both transmission and
generation losses, amount to about 8X of electricity produced, with estimated



- 17
transmission losses being about 4X and auxillary consumption being 4X of
generation. Network losses are relatively high when compared to those
recorded for the more developed power grids of countries such as South Korea
end Japan, but are reasonable in view of EGAT's large transmission system
whiclh in still under evolution.
3.12         EGAT has a good record in project cost control, implementation
and management. It has been borrowing from the Bank since 1957 and is very
I miliar with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Processing of tenderm and
a&Ard of contracts are undertaken equitably and expeditiously.
D.  Financial        e
Accounting
3.13         EGAT's accounting system conforms to modern power utility
practices. The staff is well qualified and competent. Accounting
applications such as general ledgers, payroll, inventory transactions,
accounts payable, and accounts receivable have been fully computerized. EGAT
prepares annual budgets for its capital and operating expenditures.
Periodically, reports are prepared enabling management to compare actual
results against budgeted amoslnts. The budget process has been operating
satisfactorily.
3.14         EGAT's billing and collection system is adequate.  Accounts
receivable decreased from an average of 71 days of sales at the end of FY88 to
57 days at the end of FYS9. This is consistent with a government regulation
requiring all state enterprises to collect receivables within 60 days.
3.15         EGAT has been developing an online Management Information System
since 1984. Currently, over 200 reports dealing with operational and
financial matters, construction, procurement and personnel can be retrieved.
Although the system is not fully integrated -- a step which depends on
software implementation on a recently acquired mainframe computer -- it is
already used by EGAT's top management on a regular basis.
Audit
3.16         EGAT has an Internal Audit Department with a staff of 68
auditors, which reports directly to the General Manager. The Internal Audit
Department reviews the accounts of each operating unit throughout the year a.
they are compiled by the Controller's Department. EGAT's year-end financial
statements are also reviewed, primarily to check for accuracy and compliance
with regulations of the Ministry of Finance. There would now be scope for
EGAT to broaden its internal audit function to deal not only with purely
financial issues but also with operational aspects including internal
procedures and efficiency improvement measures.
3.17         EGAT's external audit is performed by the Office of the Auditor
Gfn'ral, the government organization responsible for auditing all state
en:erprises.  The international accounting firm Coopers and Lybrand has been
rataired as financial consultant to cooperate with the Auditor General and



18 -
issue a separate report on EGAT's annual accounts. To date, reports have been
submitted on time and the performance of the consultant has been satisfactory.
As provided under previous Bank loans, agreement was reached during
negotiations ti3at EGAT would submit to th. Bank audited annual financial
statements for its mining operations and EGAT as a whole, within six months of
the close of each fiscal year.
Insurance
3.18         ECAT relies on self-insurance.  It has established a sinking fund
to which it contributes annually an amount equal to what: it would otherwise
pay as insurars. premiums had it utilized commercial insurance.  Under Loan
2407-TH, FCAT's self-insurance policy and procedures were evaluated by an
independent expert and deemed satisfactory by the Bank. The status of the
sinking zund was reviewed during FY89, when EGAT hired the Royal Insurance to
assess its risk and detsrmine whether the sinking fund was adequate. EGAT
wou.ltd continue to make provisions satisfactory to the Bank to provide
insurance against such risks and in amounts consistent with appropriate
practice.
Tae
3.19         Prior to September 30, 1982, EGAT was exempted by a Cabinet
Resolution from the requirement to remit any of its net income to the
government because power tariff increases had lagged behind the rise in oil
prices. Under a January 1983 Resolution, however, and following successive
tariff adjustments, it was determined that EGAT would remit a portion of its
net income to the government as determined by the Ministry of Finance on a
perioeic basis. EGAT has been remitting taxes each year at a level which rose
from 5X of net income in FY82, to 15X in FY88-90. Remittan_e to the
government is expected to continue at the 15X level, subject to EGAT attaining
a self-financing ratio of at least 25 percent (pare. 5.5).
3.20         Customs duties and business taxes on imported equipment and
materials for EGAT's projects included in the Fourth and Fifth Five-Year
Development Plans (1977-1986) were covered by the government in the form of
equity contributions. However, the government did not agree to EGAT's request
for a similar concession for projects in the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan.
Duties and taxes are therefore now met from EGAT's own resources.



- 19 -
IV. THE BANK LOAN
A. ObJectives of the Bank Loan
4.1          The main objectives of the proposed Bank loan are:
(a)   to assist EGAT in optimizing its investment decisions and
help meet the growth in power demand over the medium term
at least cost; and
(b)   to strengthen the environmental capabilities of the power
and mining sectors.
B.   Utilization of Proceeds of the Bank Loan
4.2          The project comprises two parts:
Part A - which would be carried out by EGAT and financed from the
Bank loan, would comprise subprojects from EGAT's investment plan
for its fiscal years 1991 and 1992. including: (a) the Pak Mun
Hydropower project; (b) second stage of the Mae Moh Mine
expansion for power units number 8 and 9; and (c) installation of
an environmental monitoring network at Mae 'toh; and
Part B - which would be carried out by Goveriment and financed
from bilateral sources and Government bud-.it, would comprise
technical assistance, training and procur:-,iat: of environmental
monitoring equipment for the National Er.vl7vmental Board (NEB),
the Department of Industrial V'orks (DIW), th.: Department of
Mineral Resources (DMR) and the Public Works D)epartment (NWD),
(iaras. 4.10 and 4.30 io 4.32).
4.3          To benefit from the Bank's advice on environ.u,A: and
resettlement, EGAT has identified the three specific compvr: nts mentioned
above in para. 4.2 Part A, towards which it intends to appl-. the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan.  During implementation, EGAT could  Y'ioct to finance
any subproject from its FY91-92 investment program in addition to or instead
of the aforementioned components. Use of the loan proceeds to cover part or
all of the cost of any such subproject would be permissible, provided that it
meets the following criteria:
(a)   has been approved by the government;
(b)   is technically sound and economically justified;
(c)   has its environmental and resettlement aspects covered in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(d)   has procurement arrangements consistent with the Loan
Agreeme;.t.



- 20 -
4.4          At negotiations, agreement was reached with EGAT on the above
eligibility criteria for financing subprojects under the proposed loon and on
obtaining Bank's approval prior to implementation. EGAT would prov -e the
Bank with the necessary justification and background information sufficiently
in advance of implementation to allow expeditious processing of any subproject
not already appraised.
The Pak Mun Hydropower Project
4.5          This project, situated in the northeastern region of Thailand,
will be constructed on the Hun River, about 5.5 km upstream from its
confluence with the Mekong River. The main features of the project are
summarized in Annex 8. It involves construction of a 17 m high, 300 m long
roller-compacted cuncrete dan, creating a reservoir of 225 million cm capacity
and submerging an area of about 60 sq km. The power plant will comprise 4x34
MW bulb-turbine generator units, operating at a low nominal gross head of 11.6
m. A 70 km long, 115 kV double circuit transmission line will connect the
power station to the substation in Ubon Ratchathani province. The project
creates the potential for irrigating about 64,000 acres of land, of which
18,000 acres are proposed to be developed in the first stage. Details of the
irrigation system have yet to be worked out, but the project is justifiable on
the basis of its power benefits. A detailed feasibility study of the project
was completed by consultants in December 1985 and its hydrological and
seismological investigations and analyses have been satisfactorily addressed.
The basic designs have been reviewed by a panel of experts. At negotiations,
agreement was reached with EGAT on appointing a board of three consultants to
review the design and construction of the project and, in addition, to employ
experts in specialized fields such as roller-compacted concrete, bulb-turbines
and fish-ladders, as and when necessary. The project features in the least-
cost development plan of EGAT (Annex 5) and has an equalizing discount rate of
about 16X compared to the next best alternative of realizing peaking power
through combustion turbines (para. 6.3). The environmental impact assessment
(EIA), the environmental impact mitigation plan (EIMP) and the resettlement
plan of the project have been prepared and are acceptable and necessary
agreements have been reached with EGAT on environmental and resettlement
issues (para. 4.29).
International Waterway
4.6          The Pak Mun Hydropower project is located on the Nam Mun river,
which is a tributary of the Mekong river, which is an international waterway.
The downstream riparians of the Pak Mun project are Lao PDR, Cambodia and Viet
Nam. Together with Thailand, these countries are members of the Mekong
Committee, established by them in 1957 as an autonomus inter-governmental
agency to promote, coordinate, supervise and control the planning,
investigation and implementation of water resources development projects in
the lower Mekong basin (including international projects on the Mekong river
as well as national projects on tributaries). Thailand has notified the
Mekong Committee and representatives of Lao PDR, Cambodia and Viet Nam to the
Committee, about details of the Pak Mun project, and the Mekong Committee
consisting of the four riparians, has included the project in its plan since
1970. On the basis of this notification and the actions of the downstream
riparians in the Mekong Committee, the Bank is satisfied that the



- 21 -
international waterways issues involved in the projtzt have been adequately
covered.
Mae Moh Mine Expansion (Stage 2) for Power Units 8 and 9
4.7          This project component supports the second stage of the expansion
of lignite mining capacity at Mae Moh to serve the requirements of power Units
8 and 9 wihich have already been commissioned. This would assure a firm
lignite production of 9.5 million tpy that is necessary to sustain the needs
of 1,425 MW of total power generating capacity expected to operate at a high
annual plant factor of about 85X in the near to medium term. Annex 9
indicates the equipment proposed to be acquired and the related cost estimates
for expansion under the proposed project. The environmental impact of the
associated mining activities is being adequately addressed (paras. 4.17 to
4.25). No resettlement is involved due to this project component.
Environmental Monitoring Network for Mae Moh
4.8          In compliance with agreements under the Second Power System
Development Project (Loan 3138-TH), EGAT has carried out several studies with
consulting assistance (para. 4.16). At negotiations, EGAT agreed to install
on the basis of these studies a real-time air quality monitoring system to
warn power plant operators of current or predicted high ambient levels of S02
during adverse meteorological conditions and signal reduction of power plant
emissions of S02 as required. The monitoring network would collect data
related to NOx and SO2 ambient levels and deposition of acid rain. Annex 10
presents details of the monitoring proposals and a list of monitoring
equipment to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
Demand-Side Management and Electricity Conservation Study
4.9          EGAT, together with MEA and PEA, has started a study with a view
to formulating a master plan for demand-side management to be adopted by the
Thai electric utilities with the dual objective of influencing the nature of
the system's demand and achieving conservation in the use of electricity.
This includes: (a) load management to accomplish peak-clipping, valley filling
or load shifting; (b) indirect actions or control, e.g. electricity
conservation, incentives, and customer installed energy management systems;
(c) direct utility control through utility installed energy management
systems; (d) customer awareness programs; and (e) rate design including time-
of-day pricing. The general terms of reference for this study which were
discussed with the Bank are given in Annex 11. At negotiations, agreement was
reached with EGAT that it would exchange views with the Bank on the report of
the study promptly after its completion.
Strengthening the Environmental Regulatory Agencies for the Power and Mining
Sectors
4.10         This component would be undertaken by the government and would
aim at strengthening the environmental regulatory agencies with specific
reference to the power and mining sectors, involving NEB, DIW, DMR and PWD.
The main items in this component (described in Annex 12 and summarized in
paras. 4.30 to 4.32) are: (a) strengthening of the institutional capabilities



- 22 -
of the agencies through technical assistance that would cover review of: (i)
the organization functions and methods; (ii) the Factory and Minerals acts;
and (iii) standards and designs; (b) technical assistance and training of
staff in: (i) monitoring of emissions; (ii) use of monitoring equipment; (iii)
reviewing of EXAs; and (iv) design and operation of sewage systems; and (d)
strengthening the environmental monitoring operations of the agencies through
establishment of environmental monitoring networks and procurement of
laboratory and allied equipment.
C. ImDlementation
4.11         EGAT will be fully responsible for the implementation of its
overall investment program. Its track record in timely implementation of a
large power system expansion in the last three years has been impressive. The
department of Hydro Power and Transmission Systems Development will have
overall responsibility for implementing the Pak Hun Hydropower project. The
detailed feasibility study for the project and preparation of bid documents
for civil works were carried out by SOGREAH Consulting Engineers of France.
EGAT has engaged the services of the same consultant for the implementation
phase of the project. This is desirable in the interest of maintaining
technical continuity and necessary to meet the tight project schedule. The
hydropower project would be constructed through three major turnkey
contracts -- civil works, electromechanical works and high voltage switching
system. The implementation schedule for Pak Mun is presented in Chart 2. The
Department of Thermal Power and Mine Development would be responsible for
implementing the Mae Moh lignite mine expansion component. The work related
to the extension of lignite conveyors would be contracted on a turnkey basis;
the remainder of the component would be mining equipment which would be
procured by EGAT and used directly for the mining operations. EGAT will
continue to let out overburden removal to private contractors while
undertaking all other mining operations internally. The implementation
schedule for Mae Moh mine expansion is presented in Chart 3. In view of
EGAT's long experience in the construction of hydropower and mining projects,
its well-advanced project preparation work, carefully-developed execution
plans and implementing schedules, no problems are foreseen in the
implementation of the project components.
4.12         The implementation of the component relating to the strengthening
of the environmental regulatory agencies would be coordinated by the NESDB,
with procurement of environmental monitoring equipment being undertakon by the
respective agencies, NEB, DIW and DMR. The Bank would need to monitor this
component closely and coordinate between the government agencies and the
consultants employed for studies, technical assistance, and training.
Monitoring and ReRorting
4.13         Satisfactory procedures for monitorlng the progress of the loan
in terms of physical execution and financial reports have been agreed with
EGAT which will furnish quarterly progress reports. Parts 1 and 3 of the
Project Completion Report (PCR) will be drafted by the Bank not later than six
months after completion of the loan. EGAT will review parts 1 and 3 and
prepare part 2 of the PCR within three months thereafter. NESDB will



- 23 -
consolidate and submit quarterly reports on the progress of the environmental
regulatory agenciso strengthening project.
SuDervision Plan
4.14         Supervision of this project will be undertaken along with the
Bank's ongoing projects with EGAT. The key issues that would be focused upon
are: (a) pcriodic reviews of EGAT's power development plan in keeping with
changes in the economic scenario; (b) monitoring of compliance with financial
covenants to assure the financial health of EGAT while undertaking a large
investment program; (c) close monitoring of the implementation of the
environmental impact mitigation and resettlement plans for the Pak Hun
hydropower project; (d) adequate technical supervision for the Pak Mun dam and
associated civil works; and (e) coordination of the activities of the various
environmental regulatory agencies. The Bank missions would also assist EGAT
and the government in their efforts towards privatization and energy
conservation and provide advice on environmental issues. Supervision of the
project would require expertise in power (including hydro) and mining
engineering, economics, financial analysis, environmental engineering and
resettlement. Three missions annually for a period of four years are foreseen
for adequate supervision of this project. The total estimated staff inputs
are: (a) power engineer, mining engineer, economist and financial analyst --
20 staff-weeks (on the basis of sharing with other EGAT pxujects); (b)
hydropr sr engineer --  12 staff-weeks;  (c) environmental specialist -- 15
staff .eeks; and (d) anthropologist -- 10 staff-weeks.
D.   Enironment
4.15         The government and EGAT are committed to sound environmental
policies and practices and are interested in the Bank's involvement in
strengthening the sector's environmental capabilities. At appraisal, a review
was made of the following environmental aspects:
(a)   progress made by EGAT in the implementation of the
environmental capability strengthening measures and the
environmental studies as agreed under the Bank's Second
Power System Development Project (Loan 3138-TH; January 11,
1990) (para. 4.16);
(b)   the environmental impact assessment of the Mae Moh mine and
power development (Annex 10 and paras. 4.17 to 4.25);
(c)   the ongoing resettlement operation at Mae Moh (paras. 4.26
and 4.27);
(d)   the environmental impact assessment and the environmental
impact mitigation and resettlement plans for the Pak Mun
Hydropower project (paras. 4.28 and 4.29); and
(e)   the environmental regulatory framework and current status
of the environmental quality standards with specific



- 24
reference to the power and mining sectors (paras. 4.30 to
4.32).
Review of ImRlementation under Loan 3138-TH
4.16         EGAT has made substantial progress in response to agreements
reached under Loan 3138-TH and this includes: (a) formalization of its
environmental policies and objectives, clear definition of the authority and
responsibilities of the Ecology and Envirotuental Division, and incorporation
of its environmental policy and practices into its corporate and power
development plans; (b) strengthening of the environmental capabilities of its
staff through on-the-job training with experts in Thailand and overseas; (c)
comissioning of studies to: (i) validate the atmospheric dispersion model for
Mae Moh; (ii) analyze the air and water quality data at Mae Koh; (iii) develop
a methodology for evaluating rain acidity in the Mae Moh region; and (d)
source monitoring of noise and air emissions and monitoring the effects of
atmospheric pollutants on vegetation and measuring electromagnetic field
levels near transmission lines.
Eironmentf  l lmDact Assessment of Mine and Power DeveloDment at Mae Moh
4.17.        As a large mine-mouth power development project, Mae Moh raises
several environmental issues which must be carefully managed. Although, the
Bank has been involved only in the expansion of the mine (the power plants
have been financed by EGAT from other sources, including the ADB), the Bank
has worked closely with EGAT in conducting the environmental assessment of the
entire development and in devising mitigation actions as appropriate. As a
part of the last Bank loan, EGAT commissioned detailed studies of the impact
of both the current (including up to units 10 and 11 scheduled to come into
operation by September 1991) and the future (including units 12 and 13 planned
fcr 1996) development of Mae Moh on air and water quality. The studies
identified the need for certain mitigation actions which EGAT has agreed to
implement. Annex 10 presents the environmental impact assessment; the various
impacts and the mitigation actions proposed are summarized below.
4.18         Dust Levels  With the increase in mining activities associated
with the installation of units 10 and 11, dust levels are predicted to exceed
IBRD guidelines as indicated in Table 1, Annex 10. Substantial reduction in
the dust levels would be achieved as in the past by increasing the watering of
haul roads. At negotiations, agreement was reached with EGAT that it would
formulate and implement an action plan to monitor and reduce dust levels
considering inter AU.. the following measures:
(a)   increased watering of haul roads to improve the efficiency
of reduction in dust emissions; and using water sprays on
other particularly dusty areas;
(b)   improving efficiency of electrostatic precipitators on
units 1 and 2; and
(c)   intensifying monitoring operations, through extending
monitoring stations and increasing monitoring frequency at



- 25 -
critical locations; improving the data base and analysis of
data.
4.19         Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Levels  The emission levels of NO2 from the
power units at Mae Moh are within the IBRD guidelines. The predicted annual
average ambient levels of NO2 with 11 units in operation will be within the
IBRD standard of 100 micro grams per cubic meter (ug/cu m) except on one of
the surrounding mountain tops where the predicted value is 122 ug/cu m.
Thailand has a national environmental standard of 320 ug/cu m for a one-hour
period. This standard would be exceeded by about 70X in the mining area and
about 9X in two of the inhabited areas. However, as the annual average NO2
values at these locations are well within standards, no health-related
problems are envisaged. The Thai NO2 one-hour standard would be greatly
exceeded for short periods on the top of the surrounding mountains. The
mountain tops are, however, mostly bare rock outcrops and the lower reaches do
not contain any vegetation of commercial or ecological value. In addition,
predictions on such terrain are also questionable and could be out by orders
of magnitude. The need for making plant modifications to meet air quality
standards (both for NO2 and SO2) for these locations is yet to be established.
Broader and longer-term implications of NO2 and SO2 emissions would be
addressed by the Acid Rain study (para. 4.21) which EGAT has recently
commissioned.
4.20         Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Levels  The predicted annual average and 24-
hour maximum ambient SO2 levels in the Mae Moh valley with: (a) 9 units; (b)
11 units; and (c) 13 units (with units 12 and 13 provided with wet scrubbers
as agreed by EGAT) are given in Table 3 of Annex 10. All these levels comply
with the IBRD guidelines, except at one location in the mining area where the
24-hour maximum value would exceed the 500 ug/cu m IBRD standard for only one
day in the year (though not the 1,000 ug/cu m IBRD allowance within the plant
fence boundary). The next highest predicted value at this location would,
however, be well within 500 ug/cu m. The model-predicted ambient SO2 levels
on the top of the mountains surrounding the Mae Moh valley are very high. The
justification for reducing ambient SO2 values on the mountain tops below
currently predicted levels and the cost-effectiveness of the corrective
measures need to be carefully established by further studies. For example,
retrofitting units 10 and 11 with dry sorbent injection systems having a 50X
S02 removal efficiency, would have insignificant effect on the mountain-top
SO2 levels. Such retrofitting would therefore be worthwhile only if it were
required to reduce ambient levels within the valley, and this would be an
option available to EGAT. Another option would be feeding of low sulphur
lignite and reducing loading of units 1, 2 and 3 which are the largest
contributors to S02 ambient levels due to low chimney height. In the next
several years, EGAT's key concern would be to control S02 ambient levels in
the Mae Moh valley and the inhabited areas. Achievement of this objective
itself would require certain actions which would have a significant cost.
Currently there is no SO2 emission standard in Thailand. The present value of
SO2 emission from units 1 through 9 is about 960 tonnes per day (TPD), which
will increase to about 1,350 TPD with units 10 and 11 in operation. These
emission levels are large in absolute terms. However, when viewed in the
light of current and incremental ambient SO2 levels within the Mae Moh valley,
these emissions could be within acceptable limits. With wet scrubbers



- 26 -
provided on units 12 and 13, the contribution to S02 emission from these units
would be only about 40 TPD assuming year-round operation of the scrubbers.
4.21         EGAT and the government are concerned about the longer-term
effects of S02 emissions on Mae Moh valley, particularly the contributory
effect it may have in causing acid rain. EGAT has taken a number of steps to
study the issue: (a) it has strengthened its program of real time monitoring
of S02 emissions at various locations; (b) it has commissioned a study of acid
rain in the Mae Moh area; (c) it plans to monitor and analyze the effect of
S02 on the ecology of the mountain area; and (d) it is reviewing the
possibilities of utilizing various clean coal technologies. At negotiations.
agreement was reached with EGAT on the following:
(a)   EGAT would prepare by October 31, 1992 and thereafter
implement an action plan satisfactory to the Bank, to
reduce ambient levels of SO2 concentration in the Mae Moh
valley (general elevation of 320 meters above mean sea
level) below levels set forth in the Bank's Environmental
Guidelines dated July 1984; and
(b)   EGAT would complete ongoing studies on acid rain and plant
ecology on high terrains in Mae Moh and thereafter exchange
views with the Bank regarding the findings of these studies
and take necessary steps agreed with the Bank on the basis
of these studies.
4.22         The results of the above studies will also influence EGAT's and
Government's decisions regarding future expansion plans at Lampang (some 18 km
from Mae Moh where further expansion beyond unit 13 is proposed). EGAT is
currently reviewing development plans for the Mae Moh - Lampang complex. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that prior to finalizing expansion plans,
if any, for the Mae Moh - Lampang complex EGAT would carry out environmental
impact studies, and take into account the results of these studies.
4.23         Water Pollution  Water pollution levels at Mae Moh continue to be
of concern. The predicted water quality in the Mae Moh reservoir (MMR) which
is the ultimate recipient of the mine and power plant effluent is given in
Table 5 of Annex 10. The four major water contaminants are expected to exceed
standards substantially. This problem is engaging EGAT's continuing
attention. EGAT has constituted a Mae Moh Environmental Management
Coordinating Committee (para. 4.25) advised by e foreign expert. Improving
the water quality is among the foremost of this committpe's tasks.   At
negotiations, agreement was reached that EGAT would formulate and execute a
program to improve water quality that would inter Al"  include:
(a)   treatment of effluent by schemes such as recycling,
filtration, sedimentation, aeration, biological treatment,
and pH control as appropriate. EGAT has already carried
out studies to evaluate the effectiveness of artificial
wetlands to treat the various discharges and will be
progressively installing settling basins to control run-
offs from over-burden dumps. Effluent from the settling



- 27 -
basins will be further treated by passing through
artificial wetlands prior to discharge into drains/natural
streams which end up in the MMR. EGAT also plans to
construct an artificial wetland on the upstream end of the
MMR for additional treatment. EGAT will continue its
policy of maximizing the recycling of water. Drains would
be constructed to divert storm water run-offs from the mine
pit to minimize loading of treatment systems. A new
reservoir (Huai Pet) would be constructed between the ash
water lake and the MMR which will act as a secondary water
supply pond and also as a polishing pond for power plant
effluent discharges prior to entering the MMR; end
(b)   inaugurate a monitoring program to measure flow rates and
analyze quality of effluent water, that will form the basis
for engineering a suitable water treatment system.
4.24         Mine Reclamation  As part of the mining study relating to the
ultimate development of the lignite resources of the Mae Moh valley, ECAT has
developed an overall mine reclamation plan. The plan addresses the
rehabilitation of the mined-out pits and overburden dumps. It also includes a
master plan which provides for the ultimate utilization of the rehabilitated
land with the aim of allowing the areas disturbed by mining to be economically
and progressively returned to an environment consistent with or better than
that existing prior to the commencement of mining. EGAT has already commenced
studies of the overburden and interburden materials and conducted experiments
to determine the most suitable plant species for reforestation. Reforestation
would be a continuing process. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
EGAT would continue to implement its action plan for the reclamation of mines
in the Mae Moh valley, satisfactory to the Bank, to enable the progressive
return of reclaimed land to an environmental condition at least consistent
with that existing prior to the commencement of mining.
4.25         As part of the overall environmental management of the existing
and future power development in the Mae Moh valley, EGAT has set up a Mae Moh
Environmental Management Coordinating Committee (MMEMC). The committee
consists of representatives from EGAT, is chaired by the Director, Mine
Operations, and is assisted by a foreign environmental advisor. There are
three sub-committees - Water Quality, Air Quality and Waste Management and
Reclamation - which have responsibilities in the corresponding areas. The
MMEMC meets regularly at Mae Moh to formulate action plans and monitor their
implementation.
Ongoing Resettlement at Mae Moh
4.26         Since 1981 EGAT has carried out three successive involuntary
resettlement operations from the Mae Moh mine and thermal power station
complex areas. These have been reviewed by Bank specialists. The affected
population comes from Mae Moh District, comprised 20 villages classified as
"rural poverty areas' by GOT. About 25 percent of income is derived from
subsistence agriculture (average holding 7 rai, about 1.12 ha), the remainder
being derived from wage labor and forestry products. Villages do not have
electricity and water supplies are from natural streams and wells. In 1981-



28 -
1982, two villages composed of 350 famLlies (2,000 people) were resettled to a
site about 7 kilometers distant. Each family was provided 7 rai of paddy land
and cash compensation for property acquired. Families built their own houses
and the new site was provided with public infrastructure (roads, electricity,
water supply, schools and government offices) by EGAT. The second operation
in 1982-1983 entailed 230 families (1,300 people) resettled 5 km distant in
approximately the same fashion, except 11 rai of land were allotted because
upland soils in the area were poor.  From these two experiences EGAT learned
that the majority of displaced people in this region came to depend upon wage
lahor rather than agriculture, and in most instances the land was left
uncultivated or planted to treecrops. EGAT subsequently modified its approach
to resettlement.
4.27         The third resettlement operation involves about 2,100 families
(13,000 people), including those from the district center named Ban Hoh Luang,
who are presently being resettled to an area designated the Ban Tha Phatun-Na
Khaesm Resettlement Area located approximately 1 km away and near the EGAT
township. Families are being provided their choice among three resettlement
options: (i) allocation of 1.75 rai (0.28 ha) of land for intensive organic
cultivation and livestock rearing (producing vegetables, fruit and dairy
products for the EGAT township); (ii) allocation of a shop-house consisting of
a shop downstairs together with a grant of 46,200 Baht for inventory and
equipment purchase; or (iii) a grant of 120,000 Baht. About 400 families have
chosen option (iii) and moved away from the region, 300 have selected the shop
option, and 1,400 have selected the organic farming option.  Families build
their own houses to their own requirements with compensation money received
for lost structures.  Public infrastructure installed in the new settlement by
EGAT includes electricity, paved roads, piped water supply, schools, post
office, and district government offices. A demonstration organic farm is
operated by agricultural specialists employed by EGAT to assist resettled
families in adopting the organic farming system. In addition to these formal
options, members of many families also work for EGAT, firms supplying services
and goods to EGAT, or offices of district government. The Bank's
environmental division conducted a review of this ongoing operation and
concluded that the resettlement work is well planned, preparation of the new
site is exemplary and provisions for re-establishoent of economic productivity
appear satisfactory but should be reviewed systematically over the course of
the project.
Environmental ImDact Assessment of the Pak Mun Hvdropower Proiect
4.28         The environmental impact assessments (EIAs), the environmental
impact mitigation plan (EIMP) and the resettlement plan for the Pak Mun
project (Reports A.1, A.2, Annex 22) were reviewed during appraisal and
extensive discussions were hold with EGAT, concerned Government agencies
(including the Royal Forest Department, the Forestry Industry Organization,
the Fisheries Department and the Ministry of Public Health), Non Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), local resource management agencies and local
communities. Annex 13 gives a summary of the resettlement, ecological and
health aspects of the review done at appraisal. The ecological aspects
covered fisheries and conservation of the parklands, the two most significant
environmental impacts of this project. Report A.3, Annex 22, received from
EGAT after appraisal, gives a summary of the Resettlement Plan and



- 29 -
Compensation Rates. Followlng appraisal, the Bank mlssion members have had
substantial interaction wlth lnternational and Thai NGOs and have provlded to
them necessary Lnformation on the environmental and resettlement aspects of
the project. EGAT has also done extensive publlcLty on the project and has
provlded lnformation on the project's envlronmental impact and resettlement
plan to the affected persons. At negotiations, an understandLng has also been
reached wlth EGAT that it would make available for inspection at lts offlces
reports on envlronmental lmpact assessment, envlronmental impact mitlgatlon
plans and resettlement plans to the public concerned who may wlsh to see the
documents. Report A.4 in Annex 22 provides details of the interaction of the
Bank mLssion with the NGOs and EGAT's efforts towards publicity. It is
concluded that the entire envLronaental assessment process, the EIAs, the EIMP
and the Resettlement Plans have been satisfactorily carried out.
4.29         The environmental impact, the envlronmental impact mltigation
plans and strengthening measures agreed with EGAT for the Pak Mun project are
summarized below. The Pak Hun project was originally designed for a full
supply level (FSL) at 112 m with the dam located at Kaeng Tana rapids. The
dam height was subsequently lowered and the dam location shlfted to Ban Hua
Heo to achieve an FSL of 108 a, thereby limiting the FSL at or below
historlcal normal flood levels. This resulted in some reductlon in generating
capability, but substantially reduced the project's environmental impact. The
revised dam location would preserve the downstream Kaeng Tana rapids, while
the proposed operatlng regime for the power station would preserve the
upstrebm Kaeng Sa Phue rapids (a tourist attraction) which would have been
otherwise submerged during the dry season.
(a) Preservation of The National Park The Kaeng Tana National
Park covering an area of about 80 sq km lies along the boundary
of the project ard about 1.1 sq km of the park area will be
affected by the construction campsite and headworks. The EIMP
calls for protecting the forest and improving facilities for
visiting tourists. It also provides for elevation of roads
subject to flooding by the project and a more systematic survey
and excavation of possible archaeological sites in the reservoir
and resettlement areas although current surveys indicate that
significant archaeological sites occur above the reservoir level.
At negotiations, agreement has been reached with EGAT on the
following:
(1)   EGAT would implement a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the rehabilitation of the construction site after
completion of the construction of the Pak Mun Hydropower
dam, and develop the dam site as a tourist spot;
(2)   strengthen conservation of the Kaeng Tana National Park for
a period of five years commencing 1991; and
(3)   EGAT would implement a subproject site management plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, that would; (i) minimize run-off
of construction wastes; (ii) stabilize and reclaim spoil
areas in a timely manner; (iii) prevent damage to



- 30 -
archeological sites; and (iv) prevent damage by materials
excavated under the subproject to productive agricultural
land and resettlement areas.
(b)  Fisheries   The EIMP stipulates a fisheries development plan
that calls for: (i) upstream development of fresh water fisheries
to increase the current yield by about 46X; (ii) setting up of a
fisheries conservation unit, undertaking necessary studies and
investigations, promoting fishing activities and monitoring the
program; and (iii) study and construction c' a fish ladder to
facilitate upstream movement of migrator,   sh,  The design of
the fish ladder by ECAT's consultants would provide flexibility
for future modifications to the extent possible. At
negotiations, agreement has been reached that EGAT would
implement a fisheries development plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
which includes: (i) establishment of a fisheries conservation
unit; (ii) carrying out of studies on fish migration; and (iii)
cotistruction and monitoring of a fish ladder to facilitate
upstream movement of migratory fish.
(c)  Health Issues   To safeguard against occurrence of public
health problems due to the project, the EIMP calls for the
development of a strategy to prevent, control and mitigate (and
subsequently to monitor) not only against endemic diseases in the
area but also possible diseases transmitted from other areas
notably Schistosomiasis. The health issues were reviewed in
detail by the Bank and a list of suggested measures are at Annex
13. At negotiations, agreement has been reached that EGAT would
Implement a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the prevention,
control and mitigation (including monitoring) of endemic diseases
in the subproject area as well as diseases transmitted there from
other areas.
(d)  Resettlement   Preliminary surveys indicate that submergence
due to the project would require resettlement of about 248
households (in 11 villages). Detailed planning surveys now under
way indicate that lands of a few hundred additional households
would be affected to varying degrees. The resettlement and
compensation plans would be firmed up based on the results of the
final survey. The Cabinet has appointed two committees -- the
Resettlement Committee and the Compensation Committee -- to
undertake all activities associated with the resettlement process
and has outlined their work programs. The two basic objectives
of the resettlement program are: (i) to provide infrastructure
and economic assistance opportunities to improve standards of
livelihood; and (ii) to provide affected households with a choice
among alternative resettlement arrangements. At negotiations,
agreement has been reached that EGAT would implement a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the resettlement and rehabilitation
of persons involuntarily resettled as a result of the subproject.
This would include, in addition to any compensation paid to such
persons for loss of property, the following:



- 31 -
(1)   one of the following options: (i) the allocation to such
persons, of at least 0.08 hectares of land for home plots
and 1.6 hectares of land for farm plots per fGaily in the
resettlement area and necessary assistance to such persons
for construction of houses out of compensation received by
them for property acquired from them; or (ii)
reconstruction of their existing houses on now backfilled
ground near the original locations of such houses;
(2)   provision of support to low income families for a
transition period until production facilities are
functional; and
(3)   provision in the resettlement area of irrigation for
agricultural land and public infrastructure facilities such
as electricity, paved roads and water supply and necessary
schools and relevant government offices.
(e)  Honitoring and Evaluation  The EIMP calls tfor the
coordinated efforts of EGAT and the NEB for monitoring and
analysis of the physical, ecological and sociological impacts of
the project during construction and subsequent supervision by
EGAT for a period of 5 years. The EIMP also directs the
Environmental Technology Planning Division of NESDE to act as an
evaluation agency for the entire environmental mitigation program
for a period of 5 years. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that EGAT would furnish to the Bank for review and comment
details reherding the monitoring program of environmental aspects
of the subproject pursuant to the Environmental Impact Mitigation
Plan.
The EnvironMental Regulatory Agencies and Envirormental Ouplity Standards
4.30          In connection with its involvement in the Thai power and mining
sectors, the Bank has reviewed the environmental regulatory framework with
particular reference to the functioning of the key environmental regulatory
agencies and the adequacy of the environmental quality standards. The three
environmental regulatory agencies are: (a) the National Environmental Board
(NEB) which is responsible for developing broad environmental policies and
plans, establishing ambient environmental quality standards, and approving all
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs); (b) the Department of Industrial
Works (DIW) responsible for issuing licences, establishing emission standards,
monitoring compliance, and enforcing regulations for the Industrial sector
which includes the Power sector; and (c) the Department of Mineral Resources
(DMR) responsible for similar functions as the DIW but for the Mining sector
which includes EGAT's mining activities. While this structure and the
mandates of the three agencies are appropriate, in practice they have not been
able to discharge their functions adequately because of several weaknesses.
At present NEB's ambient air quality monitoring is limited to the Bangkok
metropolitan area. For effectively fulfilling its role, NEB needs to
establish nationwide monitoring networks. NEB staff also lack expertise in
evaluating thr EIAs of large power development projects. The organizations of
DIW and DMR are not adequately structured to enable these agencies to carry



- 32 -
out their mandates effectively in the environmental field. Further, the
environmental monitoring and enforcemont capabilities of the agencies are
hampered due to lack of training in this field and the paucity of
environmental monitoring equipment and laboratory facilities. There is tnus a
need for a review of critical organization functions and methods, training of
staff, and acquisition of monitoring equipment. In the area of environmental
standards, Thailand has established standards for ambie-.t air and water
quality and for emission of effluents from industries (see Annex 12 paras. 12
to 20). However, there are currently no standards for emission of pollutants
into the atmosphere nor for workplace safety. Emission standards are the most
direct means for enforcing compliance with regulations. While DIW is the
agency responsible for developing emission standards, it has still to make
progress in this field, in part due to resistance from several vested Interest
groups. This issue needs to be tackled with a forceful mandate to the agency
responsible for formulating the standards. DIW has also not fulfilled its
legislated mandate for establishing workplace safety standards. DIW would
need to consult the Department of Public Health (DPH) which currently sets
ambient worker environment standards and the Department of Labour in framing
safety standards for machinery and industrial processes. The Factory Act
which governs the operations of DIW and the Minerals Act which governs the
operations of DMR are outdated and need to be reviewed, with particular
emphasis on strengthening the hands of the regulatory agencies in enforcing
compliance with environmental standards.
4.31         The proposed project component would provide technical assistance
and training for strengthening of NEB, DIW and DMR, including technical
assistance in the preparation of emission standards. Further, at the specific
request of the gov2rnment, the project also provides assistance for
strengthening of the Public Works Department in relation to its activities
coacerning sewage disposal from major cities. The scope of the proposed
project component is outlined below (see Annex 12 for details). At
negotiations, agreement was reached that the government would undertake this
project component. The specific steps and time-frame for the establishment of
appropriate emission standards would be evolved during project implementation;
current expectations are that the emission standards could be established by
1993.
(a)   Technical assistance and training of staff in: (i) review
of EIAs of large ptS.r development projects; (ii) defining
the needs for air quality monitoring; and (iii)
establishing and operating nationwide air quality
monitoring networks; and
(b)   Procurement of ambient quality monitoring equipment and
allied facilities.
DIW and DMR
(a)   Technical assistance and training of staff in monitoring of
air, noise and effluent emissions from factories (including



- 33 -
power plants) and mines, including hands-on operational
training on monitoring equipment;
(b)   Technical assistance in   (i) review of critical
organization functions and methods; (ii) review of the
Factory and the Minerals acts with special emphasis on
environmental and safety related aspects; (iii) review of
and assistance in the preparation of emission cnd effluent
and work-place safety standards; and (iv) training in the
review of EIAs of specific projects; and
(c)   Procurement of air and effluent monitoring equipment and
laboratory facilities.
(a)   Technical assistance and training of staff in design,
operation and maintenance of sewage systems; and
(b)   Technical assistance in: (i) reviewing present organization
structure and recommending strengthening measures to meet
the requirements of implementing a 5-year sewage works
program in major cities; (ii) revicwing standards,
guidelines, design criteria and processes and recommending
systems most appropriate for various sanitary districts;
and (iii) reviewing operational training needs and
institutionalizing training systems for the center and the
districts.
4.32         The estimated cost of this project component is as follows:
Technical         Training           Equipment         Total
Assistance
-------------------------- US$OOOs ---O-O-O-
NEB                   100               200               3,620            3,920
DIW                   310               350                 320              980
DMR                   100               200                 200              500
FWD                   250                S0                   0              300
Total                 1Q               j00               4 140            5 700
E. Cost Estimates
4.33         The total financing required by EGAT for its investment program
in FY91-92 (including capitalized interest during construction) is estimated
at about US$2,933 mi'lion, with a foreign exchange component of US$1,511
illion. The total cost of the components proposed by EGAT to be financed



- 34 -
from the Bank loan is about US$237 million with a foreign exchange component
of about US$128 million (details are at Annexes 8 and 9). The cost of civil
works and plant for Pak Hun Hydropower project are based on actual bid prices.
All costs are based on October 1990 price levels. Physical contingencies
range from 5X to 10X of the base cost depending on the nature of the
subproject. Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of escalation
factors of 5.0X for the local cost components and 3.6X for the foreign cost
components. Price contingencies are not applied to those components of the
program for which definitive prices have already been established. Table 4.1
summarizes the cost estimates of EGAT's FY91-92 program; details are in Annex
14.
Table 41: SUMMARY OF COSTS (EGAT INVESTMENT PROGRAM) /A
EX as X
FY91-92 Program         Baht million /b            USS million        total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   cost
Thermal Plants    11,137  24,473  35,610        445    979    1,424    69
Hydro Plants        1,146   2,176   3,322        46     87       133    65
Transmission        4,189   7,136  11,325       168    285       453    63
Lignite Mining      2,371     775   3,146        95     31       126    25
Miscellaneous       3,130       0   3,130       125       0      125     0
Taxes and Duties   5,617        0   5,617       225      0       225     0
Total Base Cost   27 590  3       4560  62 15C    1104  1,382    2.486    .i
Contingencies
Physical            1,891   2,536   4,427        76    101       177    57
Price                 790     711   1,501        31     28        59    47
Total Cost         07137,807  68 078    1 211  1 511    2,722    56
Interest during    5,275        0   5,275       211      0       211     0
construction
Total Financing   35 546  37Q807  7,3353   1422  1511    2.933    U1
Reguired
JA October 1990 price levels.
k Exchange rate US$1 - B 25.0.
F. Financing Plan
4.34         Table 4.2 below summarizes the expected financing sources for
EGAT's PDP during FY91-92. Financing for the project component to be



- 35 -
undertaken by the government would be obtained from bilateral sources and the
government's own budget.
4.35         Bank financing, including expected disbursements under the
ongoing loans, would account for about 5% of EGAT's overall investment program
during the FY91-92 period. The proposed loan would meet about 2% of the
program cost and about 4% of its foreign component (including interest during
construction). The Bank loan to EGAT would be at the standard variable
interest rate for a 17-year term including a 5-year grace period. EGAT would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rata risks; the loan would be
guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand.
Table 4.,2: FINANCING PLAN (EGAT INVESTMENT PROGRAA)
Foreign     Local     Total       (X)
------- US$ million -------
World Bank
Loans Outstanding  A        60         -         60        2
Proposed Loan               54         -        54         2
Other borrowing             1,397       752      2,149       73
EGAT                            -       670        670       23
Total                       1,511     1.422    .2.931       100
LA Power Transmission Project (Loan 2915-TH), Power System Development
Project (Loan 3027-TH), Second Power System Development Project (Loan
3138-TH)
G.   Procurement
4.36         All contracts for materials or for supply and erection of
equipment financed by the Bank with an estimated cost of US$200,000 equivalent
or more would be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. All civil works
financed by the Bank would be procured through ICB. Contracts for materials
or for supply and erection of equipment expected to cost US$200,000 equivalent
or less and aggregating to not more than US$2 million equivalent, may be
procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank. Local suppliers and contractors are expected to be competitive
for such contracts. Contracts expected to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less
and not exceeding in the aggregate US$2 million equivalent may be awarded
following Local or International Shopping. Specialized mining and
environmental monitoring instruments and control equipment and items of
proprietary nature, not exceeding US$2 million equivalent in the aggregate,
may be procured directly from suppliers. EGAT will furnish in advance lists



- 36 -
of proprietary items to be procured directly for review and approval by the
Bank.
4.37         Procurement following ICB procedures is expected to aggregate to
about 75X of the loan amount. In the evaluation of bids obtained following
ICB procedures, domestic price preference would be applicable for specific
components as approved by the Bank. A margin of preference equal to 15X of
the CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufactures. Prior
Bank review of bid documents and approval of contract awards would be
mandatory for all contracts expected to cost the equivalent of US$2.0 million
or more. This would cover over 70X of total contract value. The same
consultant retained for the preparation of feasibility studies and bid designs
for the Pak Mun Hydropower project will assist EGAT in the implementation of
the project. This is justifiable for reasons given in para. 4.11. The
consulting services for the implementation phase would amount to about US$7
million and cover about 600 staff-months of work. This consultancy service
will not be financed by the Bank. Any other consulting services needed for
the subprojects would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
the use of consultants. Contracts for the specific components identified by
EGAT (para. 4.3) that would be financed out of the Bank loan would be: (a) Pak
Mun Hydro -- one contract for the main civil works; (b) Mae Moh Lignite Mine -
- one major contract for the conveyor and about ten contracts for ancillary
equipment; and (c) Environmental Monitoring Equipment -- about five contracts
for specialized monitoring and laboratory equipment.
4.38         Table 4.3 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the
components expected to be financed out of the proposed Bank loan.
H. Disbursements
4.39         The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 1001 of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and materials; (b) 100l of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured items procured through ICB;
(c) 70% of expenditures for civil works; (d) 501 of local expenditures for
materials and equipment procured locally; and (e) 1001 of total expenditures
for consulting services.
4,40         For all equipment and material contracts, disbursements would be
made against full documentation. As the number of contracts is small and
manageable, Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures would not be followed
nor would a Special Account be opened. However, EGAT will ensure that each
withdrawal application would not be less than US' 0,000 equivalent.
4.41         Retroactive financing would be permitted for EGAT to the extent
of US$6 million equivalent for payments made prior to the date of loan
agreement but after October 18, 1990. This financing would cover payment made
by EGAT for the civil works contract for the Pak Mun Hydropower project, which
has already been awarded.



- 37 -
Table 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS/i
(US$ million)
Project                        Procurement Method               Total
component             ICB     LCB   Others/h       N/A/Q        Cost
Equipment and            129.0    8.0      6.0         37.0          180.0
materials              (27.0)  (2.0)   (4.0)         (0.0)         (33.0)
Civil works               40.0    5.0      0.0          5.0           50.0
(21.0)  (0.0)   (0.0)        (0.0)         (21.0)
Consulting                 0.0    0.0      7.0          0.0            7.0
services
(0.0)  (0.0)   (0.0)        (0.0)          (0.0)
Total                169.0 113.       13.0         A2.           237.0
(48.0)  (2.0)   (4.0)        (0.0)         (54.0)
/A    For projects proposed for Bank financing out of the overall EGAT
investment plan.
/k    Refers to procurement through International and Local Shopping,
direct procurement and procurement of consulting services.
,/c   Refers to duties and taxes, engineering and administrative overheads
and compensation for resettlement.
Note: Figures in parenthesis refer to amounts to be financed from
the Bank loan.
4.42         Annex 15 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan and thb standard profile of disbursements for power projects in Asia.
Based on experience with the last two Bank loans to EGAT (Loans 3027-TH and
3138-TH), both of which adopt the time-slice funding approach, and the
advanced stage of preparation by EGAT for its FY91-92 investments, the
proposed loan is expected to be disbursed faster than indicated by the
standard profile which is applicable to discrete projects.  The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1994 and the closing date for the
loan would be March 31, 1995.



- 38 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past Performance
5.1            EGAT's performance for the period FY84-89 is summarized in Table
5.1. Detailed statements are given in Annex 16. Data cover both EGAT's
lignite mining, and power generation and transmission activities.
Table 5i1: SUSARY OF EGAT'S FINANCIAL OPERATING STATISTICS, FY84-d9
(Baht million)
Fiscal year ending
September 30                1964   1965   1966   1967   1966   1969
Energy sales (GWh)          19,335  21,196  22,553  25,7M  29,494  33,701
Average revenue (8/kWh)      1.37   1.36   1.33   1.30   1.26   1.26
Operating revenues          26,433  28,902  30,120  33,716  37,474  42,649
Operating expensese        21,891  23,316  22,941  24,062  27,770  31,517
Operating income            4,542  5,586  7,179  9,634  9,704  11,134
Met Income                  3,373   1,702  1, 728  4,196  3,892   6,004
Rate base                  56,788  70,178  79,950  86,544  90,082  95,536
Long term debt             39,341  51,052  63,382  63,120  61,903  62,141
Primary Ratios:
Rate of return (%)Lb        8.0    8.0    9.0   11.1   10.8   11.7
Debt service
coverage (times)           2.4    1.8    1.4    1.4    1.5    1.6
Operating ratio (L)La        83      81     76      71     74      74
Current ratio (tiems)       0.9    0.8    0.9    1.0    1.0    1.1
Debt as X of totaL
capitaLization              45      50     53      51     SO      43
Self-financing
ratio (X)
(3-year average)            47      41     33      38     44      33
LA     Including taxes, but excLuding interest charged to operatfons and foreign exchange Losses.
Lk     On average net revalued fixed assets in operation for power.
5.2            During the period FY84-89, EGAT's energy sales increased from
19,335 GWh to 33,701 GWh -- at an average annual growth rate of about 12X.
Energy sales increased an average of 81 p.a. in the FY84 to FY86 period, and
due to the country's overall economic expansion in FY87 through FY89 -- they
increased an average of 141 during the last three years.
5.3            During the past six years, EGAT has been a strong financial
performer. EGAT's self-financing ratio has remained high throughout the FY84-
89 period, averaging 391 and remaining at or above 331. Its rate of return
(ROR) on net revalued assets in operation has remained at or above 81 between
FY84 and FY89, and was 11.71 in FY89.
5.4            In spite of a tariff decrease in mid-1987, strong sales
performance in FY87 and FY88 caused both the self-financing ratio and the rate
of return to rise in those years. They remained at robust levels in FY89.
Although substantial foreign exchange losses (B 1,289 million in FY85 and
B 2,821 million in FY86) reduced net income in both FY85 and FY86 to below
1984 levels, the sizeable sales volume increase of FY87 enabled net income to



- 39 -
surpass lts earller levels. Sales growth of 14X ln FY89, as well as a
reductlon ln both lnterest and forelgn exchange loss expenses, facilltated an
improvement ln net lncome of more than 501 ln FY89.
5 5          EGAT ls required to remit to the Ministry of Finance a portion of
its net lncome, at a level determlned at ycar's end by the MLnistry according
to the needs of the National Treasury. The roelttance level has varied
between 101 and 151 for the last several years (FY84-89) and ls expected to
contlnue at this rate. For any year ln which EGAT's self-flnancing ratio
(SFR) falls below 251, the govornment will, among other measures, reassess
EGAT's financial obligations to the State (para. 3.19).
5.6          EGAT's borrowlngs have been heavy, and the amount of lts debt has
been exp ndad substantially by the appreclatlon of the Japanese yen, German
mark and Swlss franc, the currencles ln whlch a substantlal portlon of EGAT's
debt Ls denomlnated (para. 5.8). Long-term debt ln forelgn curronclis ls
exchanged lnto Baht at the exchange rate effective on September 30 of the year
for whlch the flnancial statements are prepared. At year end FY89, the total
unrealized exchange loss on the revaluation of loans for completed projects
was B 11.7 billion. Debt servLce coverage fell from 2.4 times in FY84 to 1.6
times in FY89. Nevertheless, EGAT's capital structure has remalned
satisfactory. Dobt as a percentage of total capitalizatlon lncreased from 451
in FY84 to 531 in FY86 but fell to 431 in FY89.
B. Present Financial. PosLtion
5.7          LGAT's financial position as of FY90 is healthy, with a self-
financing ratio of 341, an ROR of 121, and a debt service coverage of 1.9
times. Substantial sales increases over the last four years -- including 17X
in FY90 -- contributed to these robust financlal ratlos. Operatlng income
increased by 111 over FY89's level; net income went up by 241.
Foreign Exchange ExDs2Lur
5.8          As of September 30, 1989, EGAT had long-term debt (net of current
maturities) of B 62,141 million, of which over half was denominated ln
Japanese yen, German mark, or Swlss franc. Slnce the Baht has weakened
substantially agairst these currencles, EGAT has lncurred considerable foreign
exchange losses. A 1986 Ministry of Finance dlrectlve requlred all state
enterprises to re-alue forelgn currency loans as of September 30 of each year,
and spread the loss over the remainLng terms of the loans. The policy is
appropriate slnce spreading the foreign exchange losses is a far better
alternative than affectlng the net proflt of one singl- year by the entlre
amount of the loss. The deferred exchange adjustment account enables EGAT to
reflect the loss in a tlimly manner and at the same time smooth out the effect
of the exchange rate swings on the net income of any given year. Even with
the substantial incroase in EGAT's debt caused by the Lnclusion of the forelgn
exchange adjustment component, the debt to equlty ratlo remaLns well wlthin
the 60/40 ratlo previously agreed wlth the Bank (para. 5.12).
C. Financial Outlook
5.9          WGAT's healthy financlal pe'formance is projected to continue for
the next several years. The challenge for EGAT in the near-term will be to
assimLlate and flnance the expected sLzeable expansions in its capital
investment. Its current financial strength should allow it to do this wlthout



- 40 -
excessive dlfflculty. Key indLcators of EGAT's financial performance for the
perlod FY90-97 are presented ln Table 5.2, and detailed projectLons are shown
ln Annex 17.
TABLE S.2: U51 6EO E  'AT'S FINACIAL OPERATING STATISTICS, FY 90-97
(aht Mli on)
Fiscal Year Endrng Septer 30    1990   1991  1992   19    1994   199S   1996   1997
Energy mLa (a)              39,36  46,102  50,620  55,294 60,290  65,283  70,475 75,624
Averae reveu (8lkwh)          1.2S   1.39   1.39   1.41   1.57   1.09    1.69  1.S9
Operating r                 50,380 ",822 71,112  78,725  95,425 123,S36  133,635 143,351
OperatIno expwne            38,063  49,095  54,009 62,737 75,062  95,302  97,418 105.600
Operating Incomel/          12,317  15,727  17,103  15,966  20,344  28,536  36,217 37,551
Net inome                   7,523  9,183  9,807  8,689  11,047  16,062  20,282 19,041
late be                     99,500 111,912 136,594 170,376 207,167 247,670  291,601 334,346
Long-term debt              75,045  95,617 113,563 140,058 168,696  18,690 9,208,486 230,165
Primry ratios:
late of return CX) l        12.4  14.1  12.5   9.4   9.6   11.5   12.4  11.2
Debt servico coverae (timse)  1.9   1.6   1.7   1.6   1.5   1.3    1.4   1.3
Operating ratio(C) /l        76    76    76    SO    79    77          73    74
Current ratio (times)        1.4   1.4   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5    1.5   1.9
Long-term debt as X
of total capital.           U      47    47    49    SO    49         47    46
Self-financin ratio CI)
(3-year averag)             34    25    28    25    25    25         36    28
i   Including taxe, but excluding Interest charge to operations ad foreign exchg losses.
lb  On avere net revalued fixed "ats in operatlon for powr.
5.10           At negotiatLons, agreement was reached that ECAT would set its
tariffs so as to generate funds from internal sources (as defined in Annex 17)
equivalent to not less than 25  of the annual average of lts capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the
prevlous fisca.l year, and the next followlng flscal year. A similar self-
flnancing covenant would apply to the power subsector as a whole (para. 5.19).
Accordlng to current projectLons, EGAT's prlces for electriclty sales to KEA and
PEA would need to be lncreased in FY91 In order to stay above the covenanted 25X
self-financing ratio level. If EGAT is able to lmplement cost reductlon
measures, the need for tariff increases would be reduced or delayed. EGAT
currently is exploring a variety of approaches to keep near-term rate increases
to a iniLum: these include negotiated oil and gas price reductions, equity
participation by the prlvate sector ln EGAT or speclflc EGAT capltal projects,
and lower remittances to the government.
5.11           Due in part to substantial expected growth in industrial demand,
much of which has already been contracted, EGAT's sales growth ln 1991 ls
expected to be 171; it would then lncrease an average of 91 per year through
FY94, and average 8X per year growth between FY95 and FY97. EGAT's net lncome
is projected to Lncrease wlth sales growth through most of the FY91-97 period,
except that lncreased fuel prLces wlll cause some net lncome deterloratlon ln
1993. The operating ratio for power sales will range between 731 and 801 during
the projected period. The ROR is projected to remain above 91 between 1990 and
1997. EGAT's power assets, which are revalued each year according to an index
published by the MLnLstry of Flnance, wlll increase at about 17X p.a. from
B 137,101 milllon ln FY90 to B 420,380 million ln FY97.



- 41 -
5.12           EGAT's debt service coverage ratio will range between 1.3 and 1.9
times throughout the projected period. The capital structure will remain
satisfactory: the debt/total capital ratio is expected to average 50X and remain
at or below 531. EGAT's current debt control test provides for Bank review of
borrowings when the debt-equity ratio exceeds 60/40; agreement was reached at
negotiations to continue this test for the proposed loan. In addition, EGAT has
been required under previous Bank loans not to contract short- and medium-term
debt (debt which matures within five years) in excess of 15X of its total debt
outstanding. EGAT has always complied with this covenant, and at negotiations,
agreement was reached to continue it under the proposed loan.
5.13           EGAT has maintained a current ratio averaging 0.95 over the past
six years. Since EGAT has had easy access to short-term borrowing, its
liquidity position has been satisfactory. Projections show that the current
ratio will not fall below 1.4 during the project period.
D. LignLie Mine Operations
5.14           The operations of EGAT's Lignite Mine Directorate comprise the Mae
Moh and Krabi mines. Each mining operation is treated its a separate accounting
center and overhead costs are allocated proportionately. The transfer price is
based on a methodology agreed with the Bank under previous loans. The transfer
price reflects the long run marginal cost of lignite; it is equal to the sum of
EGAT mining costs and a depletion premium that accounts for the increasing
economic scarcity value of lignite and the associated cost to the economy of the
early use of an exhaustible resource. The depletion premium is derived from the
opportunity cost of lignite (based on imported coal as a substitute), future
mining costs and the magnitude of reserves. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that EGAT would continue to set the transfer price for the lignite
produced and used in its power plants on the basis of economic principles and so
as to ensure the financial viability of its lignite mine operations, in
accordance with the methodology previously agreed with the Bank.
5.15           To ensure that adequate financial discipline continues to govern
mining operations, agreement was reached during negotiations that the Lignite
Mine Department would meet standard debt covenants as agreed under previous
lignite mining operations. The covenants are (a) a debt:equity ratio not
exceeding 60:40; and (b) a debt service coverage of at least 1.3.
E. Subsector Finances
5.16           Consolidated financial projections of the power subsector (EGAT,
PEA and MEA) are presented in Annex 18.
5.17           Tariff increases in the  early 1980s brought the average retail
electricity price in Thailand to a level which was at or above the long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) of supply, and created the base for the financial viability
of the power subsector during the 1980s. Although extensive capital
expenditures in FY84 and FY85 (which increased the rate base in those years by
191 and 241, respectively) reduced the rate of return of the power utilities
between FY83 and FY85, reductions in fuel prices in 1986 and 1987, as well as



- 42 -
substantially increased electricity sales in 1987, helped to keep the self-
financing ratio above 25X for both EGAT and the power subsector as a whole
through the late 1980s period.
5.18           With rate increases beginning in FY91 and averaging 72 per year
through FY97, the subsector would produce the covenanted 25X self-financing
ratio level throughout the projected period, and earn an average rate of return
on revalued net fixed assets of nearly 132. With the estimated tariff
increases, the subsector will remain financially strong through 1997. Energy
sales will increase at about 17X in 1990 and 1991 (with much of the sales
increase already having been contracted), at 10 in 1992 and 1993, and at an
average annual rate of 82 per year thereafter. Revalued net fixed power assets
will grow at about 162 per year throughout the FY90 to FY97 period. The debt
service coverage is projected to be at least 1.4 times. Debt as a percent of
total capital will average 482 during the FY90 to FY97 period and will not rise
above 502.
5.19           Agreement was reached at negotiations that tariffs for the power
subsector would be set so that the subsector would generate funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 252 of the annual average of its capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the
previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year. For this purpose the
government will provide to the Bank consolidated financial statements for the
power subsector within six months after the end of each fiscal year. This
covenant will ensure that the subsector remains financially sound. The covenant
is used to determine the appropriate tariffs which all retail customers--whether
of EGAT, MEA or PEA -- pay according to the same schedule. Once the subsector
self-financing ratio has been ensured, self-financing ratios are set for the
individual utilities. Because PEA, with its extensive rural distribution system
and low density coverage, has costs which exceed those of MEA on a per kWh
basis, subsidies to PEA are built into the rates charged by EGAT to the two
utilities (EGAT's tariff to MEA in 1990 was B 1.48 and to PEA B 1.04, compared
to its average tariff of B 1.26).
F. Tariff Levels and Structure
5.20           Successive power rate increases in the early 1980s were sufficient
to keep EGAT revenues at healthy levels to the present time and even to allow
occasional small rate reductions -- the last time in June 1987 -- as EGAT's
operating costs were reduced due to the oil price decline of the late 1980s.
EGAT's tariff structure is given in Annex 19.
5.21           As agreed under Loan 3027-TH, agreement was reached during
negotiations that EGAT would maintain a fuel cost variation charge clause in its
tariff structure. Although EGAT and the sector have complied substantially with
these covenants, rate adjustments to reflect fuel cost variations have not been
automatic, but subject to government review. Accordingly, in the past, tariff
adjustments have at times been delayed. The government undertakes periodic
reviews of EGAT's bulk supply tariffs to PEA and MEA and of retail tariffs to
consumers to ensure that: (a) they are adequate to meet the financial covenants
for EGAT and for the power subsector; and (b) they accomplish the required



- 43 -
cross-subsidy between MEA and PEA. Government is now considering shifting in
the future toward a tariff policy based on automatic fuel cost adjustment.
5.22          Table 5.3 thows the average rate levels in current prices that
would be necessary to keep a minimum self-financing ratio of 25X for the power
subsector.
a&J.lL_: POWE SUUDZCSQR--PRfCST AVVA  UTEAL TARIFF
level
FY9O   TY91  FY92   FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
FY97
Avera"* tarff (W/)                  1.66  1.77   1.67   2.00   2.21   2.66   2.65
Projected tariff increas (5)        0.2   5.3   5.3   7.1  10.7  20.0        -
5.23          Under Loan 2915-TH, EGAT agreed to undertake a program of
adjustments in the existing tariff structure so that tariffs would (a) reflect
cost differences between the main voltage levels of delivery; (b) reflect cost
differences arising from marked variations in consumers' usage patterns, viz.
load factor, power factor and intensity of peak-time demand; and (c) reduce
subsidies for consumers falling outside low-income groups. In the pursuit of
these objectives, in June 1987, the government eliminated tariff surcharges and
simplified the tariff structure. For industrial and business customers for whom
a two-part tariff is applicable, kW demand charges were increased and kWh
charges were reduced to reflect the relative marginal capacity costs and energy
costs. Taiiff differences between high, medium and low voltage users were
introduced to reflect network costs and energy losses. Time-of-day rates for
large industrial consumers, with rates differing for each of three daily
periods, were introduced from January 1990. EGAT is currently updating its
long-run marginal cost evaluation through a consulting study. Preliminary
indications are that while the current tariff levels substantially reflect the
long-run marginal costs of supply, there are certain structural distortions that
would need to be addressed in future tariff revisions.
G. Financing Pa
5.24          A financing plan for EGAT and the subsector over the project
period (FY91-92) is presented in Table 5.4.
5.25          The proposed project, including interest during construction,
represents 67X of the overall power sector investment program during the FY91-92
period. The proposed Bank loan of US$54 million is expected to meet 21 of
EGAT's total financing requirements for the period. During the FY91-92 period,
EGAT and the power sector expect to meet 21X and 201, respectively, of their
total capital requirements from internally generated funds. These numbers are
lower than 251 (the level required under the self-financing ratio covenant)
because the covenant is based on three-year average investment and investments
for both EGAT and the subsector are substantially lower in 1990 than in 1991-



. 44.@
1993. Both EGAT and the subsector are expected to be in compliance with the SFR
covenant.
Zahia..Lh.L EAT AND lSUC!U VIEADCI D PLAN
Table___A ___NW _AM_             lamMr  lubsIctar
Deht  II$      I               ehbt   NU     S
(HilIL1en)                  (Millions)
BOAT nvestante (Including IDC)   73,324 2.933  1002      73,324  2,933   672
HWA/PtA Investments (Including IOC)  0    0    Ox         36,473  1.459   331
tal Canital Reuirments     7J3 242J3   lOOX            10f 7l7  LIM   iflU
Sources of 1,mds
Internal Cash Generation     47,987 1.919   452           644394  2,576   592
Lese: Debt Service           26.593 1,144   392           39,307  1,572   36S
Working Capital Requirement   3,986  159   52        3,572   143   3S
Net Internal Cash Generation  15,406  414   212           21,515    61   201
Dorrowings                   56,559 2,262   772           64,933  3,397   772
zquity                           0    0    O0              3,398   136   32
Assets Disposal and Other Item (Met) 1,357   54   2X        -49    -2   OS
Iotal Sources of Funds     73324 L Z.911  1             109.797 Z    L3M   flO
5.26          Borrowings from external sources amount to 77X of EGAT's financing
requirements for FY91 and FY92. No difficulties have arisen in the past in
obtaining bilateral financing and suppliers credits. For the past ton years,
EGAT has made increasing use of Euro-dollar and ofher foreign financing sources,
local bond markets, and commercial bank loans; it will continue to use these
sources to cover any financing gap.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analvsin
6.1           EGAT's power development plan, which is supported in part by the
proposed loan, is critical to the continued growth and industrialization of
Thailand. Its timely implementation is essential to meeting the growing demands
of power by industry, commerce and residential consumers. Strengthening of the
environmental regulatory agencies would contribute towards an environmentally
sound development of the power and mining sectors.
6.2           The time-slice forms a part of EGAT's least-cost expansion plan.
To confirm the economic viability of EGAT's power development plan (PDP) the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is calculated on the basis of the incremental cost
and benefit streams associated with the 1990-95 time-slice of EGAT's overall
investment program. This period covers almost all the proposed gas-fired



- 45 -
generating units based on present reserve estimates of domestic natural gas,
about 70X of the lignite-fired capacity based on present estimates of lignite at
Mae Moh, and includes 1,400 KW of capacity bared on imported coal. The ERR on
this expansion program is 161. Incremental fuel costs are based on an economic
price for crude oil of US$20 per barrel in 1991, escalating in real terms At 31
per annum till 2006 and remaining constant thereafter. Estimates of the
economic cost of natural gas are derived from the contract terms for the
purchase of gas from Unocal by PTT, net of royalty payments both on the gas
itself and on recovered condensate. Additional benefits accruing from the
recovery of LPG are ignored. Estimates of the economic price of lignite are
based on the methodology agreed between EGAT and the Bank for the establishment
of the transfer price of lignite within EGAT, net of taxes, duties and royalty
payments. Estimates of the cost of imported coal are based on a price of
US$48.4 per tonne in 1996, escalating in real terms at about 1.8S pa. The
projected levels of EGAT tariffs producing the minimum covenanted 251 self-
financing ratio are used as a proxy for benefits, ignoring possible consumer
surplus. Because financial covenants are agreed to ensure tariff adjustments in
response to changes in EGAT's cost structure, the ERR is relatively insensitive
to changes in EGAT's fuel costs. Even though EGAT's PDP can be adapted
relatively easily to changes in load forecast by modifying the timing of future
units, the ERR was tested with a decline in projected demand. A reduction of 51
in the sales of electricity brings the ERR down to 14.81. The ERR drops to
14.71 for an increase of 101 in capital and operation and maintenance costs.
Details of the calculations are in Annex 20.
6.3            The Pak Mun Hydropower project forms part of EGAT'S least-cost
development plan, essentially serving the peaking needs of the northeast region
of Thailand. In order to demonstrate this more specifically, the 4x34 MW Pak
Hun project was replaced by the next best alternative comprising 3x50 MW
combustion turbines, although this resulted in about 151 higher loss of load
probability. As the reserves of gas are fully committed, the substitution fuel
was assumed to be heavy fuel oil. The cost of environmental and resettlement
measures was considered for Pak Mun but no irrigation benefit was assumed. The
result of the analysis shows that Pak Mun is the least-cost solution for all
discount rates up to 15.71 (the equalizing discount rate) compared to the
opportunity cost of capital of 121 in Thailand. With a reduction of 201 in the
price of fuel oil the equalizing discount rate drops to 13.61, whereas the
equalizing discount rate drops to 13.91 with a 101 increase in the capital cost
of Pak Mun; both the aforementioned equalizing discount rates are higher than
the opportunity cost of capital. Assumptions made in the analysis are given in
Annex 21.
B. Risks
6.4            Although the PDP is ambitious, no major risks are foreseen in its
successful and timely implementation. EGAT has an excellent track record in the
implementation of its power system expansion programs. Further, in view of
EGAT's long experience in the construction of hydropower and mining projects,
its well-advanced project preparation work, and carefully developed execution
plans and implementing schedules, no problems are foreseen in the implementation
of the two specific project components. To reduce the implementation period for
some of the urgently needed generation projects, EGAT will be letting out



- 46 -
single-responsibility contracts. Major transmission line projects vill be
implemented on turnkey basis. In view of the antlcipated heavy work load on its
engineering and design staff, EGAT will be making much greater than normal use
of consultancy assistance for project design and construction supervision. No
major risk in foreseen in the implementation of the government's project
component for strengthening the environmental regulatory agencies, except delays
which may occur in arriving at a consensus on the environmental standards.
VII.  AREE4ENTS REACHED AND RECOKtMEATION
A. Agrants
7.1            During negotiations, agreement was reached with V.GAT that it
would:
(a)   continue to operate its llgnite mining activities as
separate profit centers and to maintain separate accounts
and financial statements for such centers (para. 3.5);
(b)   submit to the Bank audited annual financial statements for
the mining operations end EGAT as a whole, within six months
of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.17);
(c)   submit to the Bank for its review and approval an evaluation
of any sub-project to be financed under the loan,
establishing that the sub-project has been approved by the
government, is technically sound and economically justified,
and meets environmental standards and provides for
resettlement plans satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.4);
(d)   eppoint a board of three consultants to review the design
and construction of the Pak Hun raoject, and in addition,
employ experts in specialized  ' .d  (para. 4.5);
(e)   exchange views with the Bank on the report of the demand-
side management study promptly after its completion (para.
4.9);
(f)   take action to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts of
the staged expansions at Mae Moh with regard to: (i) dust
levels (para. 4.18); water pollution (para. 4.23); and (iii)
mine reclamation (para. 4.24);
(g)   prepare by October 31, 1992 a plan of action to reduce
ambient SOZ levels in the Mae Moh valley, complete acid rain
and plant ecology studies and take further steps as agreed
with the Bank (para. 4.21);
(h)   carry out environmental impact studies prior to finalizing
expansion plans, if any, for the Mae Moh - Lampang complex
(para. 4.22);



- 47 -
(i) take necessary measures to strengthen the environmental
impact mitigation and resettlement plans for Pak Hun (para.
4.29);
(j)   maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 60:40 and short-
and medium-term debt at no more than 15X of all debt (para.
5.12);
(k)   continue to met the trans' r price for the lignite produced
and used in its power plant. on the basis of economic
principles end so as to ensure the financial viability of
its lignite mine operations, in accordance with the
methodology previously agroed with the Zank (para. 5.14);
(1)   limit borrowing related to lignite mining activities such
that the Lignite Mine Department's debt/equity ratio is no
greater than 60:40 and its debt service coverage ratio is at
least 1.3 (para. 5.15); and
(n)   maintain a fuel cost adjustment clause in its tariff
schedule (para. 5.21).
7.2           Durin& negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that it
would:
(a)   undertake the necessary studies and carry out a training
program for strengthening the environmental regulatory
ageicies and in particular the specific steps and the time-
frame for the introduction of appropriate emission
standards; (para. 4.31);
(b)   undertake a periodic review of power rates to ensure that
tariffs are adequate for both EGAT and the power subsector
to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 25X of the annual average capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be incurred, by them for that
fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next
following fiscal ycar (paras. 5.5, 5.10 and 5.19); and
(c)   provlde the Bank consolidated financial statements for the
power subsector within six months after the end of each
fiscal year (para. 5.19).
B. Recommendation
7.3           The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$54 million
equlvalent to EGAT with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for a 17-year term including a 5-year grace
period.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electricity Generatina Authority of Thaltand
Hiahlgahts of EGAT. MEA and PEA Operations
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
EGAT
Peak generation (MW)                      2,838   3,204   3,547   3,878   4,181    4,734    5,444   6,233
Arnual load factor MX)                     67.9    67.9    67.6    63.7    67.7    68.0    67.1    66.1
Net energy generation (GWh)              16,882   19,066  21,066  23,357  24,780   28,193  31,997  36,457
Energy aold (GYh)                        15,388  17,544  19,338  21,208  22,529  25,756  29,494   33,611
Network losses (Gwh)                      1,496    1,522   1,728   2,149   2,251    2,437   2,503    2,846
Network losses (as X of
generation)                               8.86    7.98    8.20    9.20    9.06    8.64        7.82     7.81
N!uber of employees                      26,769  30,077  32,157  31,801   31,157  31,110  31,355   31,797
Eaployee per W installed                      7       6        6        5        5       5        5        4
Peak damand (MW)                          1,499   1,631    1,776   1,823    1,983   2,178   2,432   2,715
Energy purchased (GWh)                    8,719   9,666  10,498  10,910  11,391   12,930  14,564   16,144
Energy sold (GWh)                         8,438   9,166   9,917   10,330   10,672   12,104   13,679   15,247
Losses (GWh)                                281     500      581      580      719     826      885      897
Losses (as X of purhcasas)                  3.2      5.2     5.5      5.3      6.3     6.4      6.1      5.6
Number of Consuners (000)                  838      876     914      962   1,001    1,052    1,116    1,190
Sales/conssuner (kWh)                    10,069  10,463  10,850  10,738  10,661   11,506   12,257  12,817
Annual load factor (X)                     66.4    67.7    67.3    68.3    65.6    67.8    68.4    67.9
Number of enployees                         110  10,264   10,301   10,422   10,640   10,865   11,014   11,764
Number of consuners/enployee                 82      85       89       92       94      97      101      101
PEA
Peak demand (MW)                          1,335    1,356    1,722   1,955   2,082    2,376    2,745    3,266
Energy purchases (GWh)                    6,428   7,385   8,222   9,424   10,213   11,808  13,760  16,161
Energy generated (GWh)                       35       27      21       19       25      25       21       17
Energy avaiLable (GWh)                    8,453   7,412   8,243   9,443   10,238   11,833   13,781   16,178
Energy sold (GWh)                         5,840   6,680   7,433   9,557   9,305   10,944   12,694   14,930
Losses (GWh)                                613     732      810      886      933     889    1,087    1,248
Losses (as X of avaIlable)                  9.5     9.9      9.3      9.4      9.1      7.5     7.9      7.7
Corsumers ('000)                          2,723   3,186   3,620   4,054   4,542    5,069    5,551    6,069
Average energy sales/
consumer (kWh)                          2,145   2,097   2,053   2,110   2,049    2,159    2,287    2,460
Annual load factcr (%)                     55.2    54.1    54.5    55.1    56.1    56.9    56.8    56.6
Number of enployees                      18,188  19,605  21,382   22,584  23,502   24,397  25,017  26,116
Wumber of consumers/employee                150      ,62     169      179      193     208      222      232



- 49 -
AMKE 2
THIRD POWR 3TEH DEWLOPUMT PROJECT
Electricity Ommaratir. Authoritv of ThaiIun
Fxitli  Gmn ratirn C acIftv
(CA of  pt bes 1990)
Average urmg
Coos1asionine        No. of         C c citv tmNw        cap bilIty
Plant type                               dtte(m) units      Installed Ulttimto       (CGh/yr)
Hydroelectric Plant
Bhumibol                                 1964-2             7           535.0       710.0       1,200.0
Sirikit                                     1974            3           37S.0       500.0        1,000.0
Ubotratnr                                1964-68            3            25.2         25.2         56.0
Sirindhorn                               1971-84            3            36.0        36.0          86.0
ChulWbhorn                                  197n            2            40.0        40.0          93.0
Ka3"  Krachan                               1974            1            17.5        17.5          78.0
Mm Pung                                     1965            2             6.0         6.0          15.0
Srinogarind                              1980-85            4           540.0       720.0        1,140.0
Bang Long                                   1961            3            72.0        72.0         200.0
The Thun9g M                             1981-82            2            38.0        38.0         165.0
Khoo Lo o                                1964-85            3           300.0       300.0         760.0
Huui Kuu                                    1962            1            1.06         1.06          2.0
Ban Yang                                    1974            3            0.13        0.13           03
Ban Santi                                   1962            1            1.27         1.27          6.0
Ban Chong Kltu                              1964            1            0.02        0.02           0.1
Ban Khun Klang                              1963            2            0.18        0.18           0.4
M"e most                                    1985            2             9.0         9.0          29.0
Kiridharn                                   1966            2            12.7         12.7         27.0
RJ japr bha                              1966-87            3           240.0       240.0         550.0
Huaf Kul Nang                               1967            1             0.1         0.1           0.2
TOTAL                                                          2249.16    1. 29.16        5.408.0
Thorml Power Ptant
mIb  Moh (lignite)                       1978-90            9         1,425.0                   9,360.0
Krobi (lignite)                          1964-68            2            34.0                     180.0
North Bngkok (oil)                       1961-6U            3           237.5                   1,250.0
Surat Thani (oll)                           1973            1            30.0                     170.0
Khnm PP  Col)                            1961-89            2           150.0                   1,050.0
South Bangkok (ofl/gs)                   1970-77            5         1,330.0                   9,320.0
Ban  Pokong (oil/pas)                    1983-84            2         1,100.0                   7,710.0
lIAL                                                 A          4.3L6.5                  29.040.
Combined Cycle Power Plant
Ban  Pokong (gas)                        1960-90            3           963.6                   6,031.0
C90 Turbinw
alkhon Ratchasim                            1968            1            14.0                      31.0
Udon Thani                                  1969            1            14.0                      31.0
Not YVf                                  1969-71            3            42.0                      92.0
Surat Thani                              1969-70            3            42.0                      92.0
Lan Krabu                                1969-81            7           126.0                    M.09
IMAL                                                 15           238                      1.019.
IAIO TAL                                                   21        Z.762.26                  41.49L.0



- 50 -
AIEX 3
TMaILA-D
THIRD POaER ISYTEN DEVELOPMNMT PROJECT
ELectric1tv Cneratirn Authoritv of ThaIlot
Ex_stirn TracIsalan *nd Sub t9at1n Fw1ities
(As of   ptemr 1990)
Trmnemsshon tines
Reglon and           .             Satatlan                         (Circult-ki l1 ters
$yst" voltage                Number      Tren formeLa   DoiMe-                Single         Totol
Roalrn I
500 kV                         0               a             26                 132               158
230 kV                        19           6,860         2,976                   Is            2,99*
115 kv                        42           2.480           n3                1,480             2,217
69 kV                         1              31             0                   99               99
Subtott                    g              U           LfL                 12                54
Ros10n 2
230 kV                         1             600           569                    0              519
115 kV                        29           1,126         1,712               1,590             3,302
69 kV                         4              47              0                 327              327
Shtotat                    3            1.7           ._Zi                                  LIMi
230 kV                         6            1,000         1,274                   0             1,274
115 kV                        19           1,009         1,173                1,137            2,310
llutotaL                  AU           L20              .UZ               L  1 
00 kV                          2           1,800              0                 375              375
230 kV                         6             850         2,040                  218            2,258
115 kV                        20             945           640                1,123            1,763
69 kV                         5              114             0                 174               174
Subtotal                                               L                   tm               i.
ALl Roa10n
500 kV                         2           1,800             26                 507              533
200 kV                        32           9,310         6,809                  236            7,045
115 kV                       110           5,560         4,262               5,330             9,592
69 kV                        10              192             0                 600              600
TOTAL                     154          16862         11.097               t.7              177
LA   Statfon servico end generator unit transformers are excluded.



- 51 -
THAILAD
THIRD POIER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELectricity Generatina Authority of Thailand
Dam" Forecast
FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94       FY95        FY96       FY97
ErarM( Sales (G1
Resfdentiat                    3,221       3,582      3,935      4,326       4,774      5,297       5,884      6,490
airnss                         5,509       6,183      6,723      7,296       7,919      8,605       9,330     10,014
Industrial                     6,908       7,955      8,759      9,631      10,533     11,506      12,522     13,561
Speil rates                      650         657        649        642         642        642         642        642
owverraent, hoepitals
nd  ducation                 1,089       1,185      1,262      1,338       1,413      1,491        1,54      1,628
Street lighting                   90          98        105         112        121        130         141        155
Network  osses                  1,155      1,299      1,4'7       1,539      1,679      1,829       1,969      2,147
Received from EGAT            18-622    L2029l 22 850           24,U4       27 081     29 502      3207Z    34Z63
Residential                    4,594       5,434      5,899      6,291       6,875      7,521       8,208      8,894
Business                       2,892       3,376      3,688      3,912       4,287      4,697       5,138      5,593
Industrial                     8,689      10,874     12,447     14,014      15,679     16,829     17,959      19,048
Special rates                    110         115        112         107        107        107         107        107
Goverruent, hospitals
and  dUcation                1,489       1,747      1,887      1,989       2,157      2,332      2,503       2,665
Street lighting
Locos-gwneration,
froe  of charge              1,544       1,855      2,051      2,218       2,446      2,631      2,818       3,002
Received from EGAT            i9.318      23 401     26084      Z8 531      31551      34117    36M 7330
EGAT's direct customers            1,428      1,742      1,686       1,650      1,657      1,664       1,671      1,678
GRAND TOIL                  393         46tQ02     5Q9,A      55 065      60m289     65.2L       70T476     75,624
EGAT network losses (GWh)         3,820       3,918      4,050       4,405      4,824      5,222       5,637      6,050
As X of net generations             8.84       7.83       7.41        7.41       7.41       7.41        7.41       7.41
EGAT net generation CGWh)        43,189      50,020     54,670      59,470     65,113     70,505      76,113     81,674
EGAT load factor (M)              69.50       69.13      69.12      69.26       69.54      70.00       70.44      70.69
EGAT peak demand (CW)              7,094      8,260      9,029       9,802     10,689     11,498      12,335     13,190
hEA pek dema_d (W)                 3,124      3,500      3,779       4,083      4,438      4,806       5,200      5,625
NEA load factor (2)                68.06      68.35      69.02       69.57      69.66      70.07       70.41      70.29
PEA peak doand (NW)               3,785       4,542      5,057       5,560      6,096      6,540       6,966      7,419
PEA lood factor (t)               58.45       58.97      59.02       58.65      59.21      59.67       60.13      60.59



ANNEX S
- 52  THAILAND
- 52- -.1
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Power Develooment Plan
Location                                           Unit No.            Typ.           Capacity (MW)      Scheduled date
Under Construction
Srinagarind                                           5            Hydro                     180        Apr 1991
Bank Pakong                                           3            Comb-CycLe               307         May 1991
Bank Pakong                                           4            Comb-Cycle               307          Jul 1991
Rayong                                                1            Comb-Cycle               308         Aug 1991
Rayorg                                                2            Comb-Cycle               306         Sep 1991
Mm. Phong                                             1            Comb-Cycle               355         Mov 1991
Mae Moh                                              10            Lignite                  300         Nov 1991
Rayong                                                3            Comb-CycLe               308         Dec 1991
Bang Pakong                                           3            Gas/Oil                  600         Mar 1 M
Mae Moh                                              11            Lignite                  300         May 1992
Bang Pakong                                           4            Gas/Oil                  600         May 1993
SubtotaL                                                                               38
New Prolects
Bhumibol renovation                                 1-2            Hydro                       -        Jan 1993
Nam Phong                                             2            Comb-Cycle               355         Jan 1994
Sirikit                                               4            Hydro                     125        Feb 1994
Rayon                                                 4            Comb-Cycle               300         Mar 1994
South Bangkok                                         1            Comb-Cycle               300         Apr 1994
Pak Mun                                             1-4            Hydro                     136        Nov 1994
Kharxx                                                1            Comb-Cycle               300         Dec 1994
Kaeng Krung                                         1-2            Hydro                     s0         Dec 1994
Bhumibol                                              a            Hydro                     175        Jan 1995
Wang Noi                                            1-4            IC-Turbine               400         Apr 1995
Khanom                                                2            Comb-Cycle               300         Apr 1995
Mae Moh                                              12            Lignite                  300         Apr 1996
Subtotal                                                                               2.771
Future Projects
Ao Phai                                               1            CoaL                      700        Aug 1196
Mae Moh                                              13            Lignite                   300        Oct 1996
Ao Phai                                               2            Coal                      700        Apr 1997
Lam Takong                                          1-4            Hdro                     600         Jun 1997
Ao Phai                                               3            Coal                      700        Apr 1998
Mae Taeng                                           1-2            Hydro                      26         Jun 1998
Mam Khek                                              1            Hydro                     50         Dec 1998
Larpang                                               1            Lignite                  300         Jan 1999
Mae Lama Luang                                      1-3            Hydro                     240         Jan 1999
Lampang                                               2            Lignite                  300         Jul 1999
Laipang                                               3            Lignite                  300         Jan 2000
Ham Hgao                                            1-2            Hydro                     140        Jan 2000
Saba Yoi                                              I            Lignite                  300         Apr 2000
Lampang                                               4            Lignite                  300         Jul 2000
Saba Yol                                              2            Lignite                  300         Oct 2000
Lampang                                               5            Lignite                  450         Jan 2001
Unknown                                             1-2            IC Turbine                200        Apr 2001
Lampang                                               6            Lignite                  450         JuL 2001
Ao Phal                                               4            Coal                     700         Oct 2001
Saba Yol                                              3            Lignite                  300         Apr 2002
Unknown                                               1            Therm_l                 1,000        Oct 2002
Sin Pun                                               1            Lignite                   75         Apr 2003
Unknown                                               2            Thermal                 1,000        Apr 2003
Unknown                                             3-4            IC-turbfne                200        may 2003
Unknown                                               3            ThermaL                 1,000         Jan 2002
Sin Pun                                               2            Lignite                   75         Apr 2004
Unknown                                               4            Thermal                 1,000         Jan 2005
Unknown                                               5            ThermaL                 1,000        Oct 2005
Unknown                                               6            Thermal                 1,000        Apr 2006
Subtotal                                                                              13 
12AL                                                                                  20 350



- 53 -
jMEX6
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEN DVVELOMENT PROJECT
Electricity Goneratins Authority of Thailnd
SaLance of System Load Realirements wnd capabtities
Reii rement                      Caa city                                    Eneray
Fiscal     Peak       Ernrgy                                Roserv Cac etv                       Reserve
Year    generation   generation  Instatled   Dependable   Gross LA    Not           Firm        from firm
(NU)        (Gih)      -.----   (NW- )O------     --.-.. --------        (Gh)            (M)
1980    2,417.4       14,753.7      3,239.4    3,084.2     27.58       12.36       16,673.1       13.01
1981    2,588.7       15,960.0      3,739.4    3,555.0     37.33       23.11       18,576.5       16.39
1982    2,838.0       16,882.0      4,097.7    3,910.2     37.78       24.81       21,195.8       25.55
1983    3,204.3       19,066.3      4,992.0    4,801.9     49.86       24.64       22,813.7       19.65
1984    3,547.3       21,066.4      5,859.2    5,668.3     59.79       37.01       28,622.0       35.87
1985    3,878.4       23,356.7      6,457.7    6,163.7     58.92       38.09       33,155.9       41.95
1986    4,18o.9       24,779.5      6,639.3    6,356.5     52.04       32.11       34,397.7       38.82
1987    4,733.9       28,194.3      6,879.3    6,554.5     38.4        20.86       32,765.9       16.21
1988    5,444.0       31,997.0      6,879.3    6,554.5     20.40        5.10       33,065.4        3.34
1989    6,232.7       36,584.0      7,254.0    8,118.7      18.86       5.50       33,411.1       -8.67
1990    7,093.7       43,189.0      7,998.9    9,356.1      14.50       2.70       38,515.8       -8.74
1991    8,260.0       50,020.0      9,440.9   10,430.5      13.27       3.19       46,053.0       -7.93
1992    9,029.0       54,670.0     10,827.3   11,649.5      15.52       5.75       55,506.5        1.53
1993    9,825.0       59,717.0     12,069.3   12,511.2      18.57       9.59       63,114.2        5.69
1994    10,689.0      65,113.0     12,947.3   13,310.1      17.05       8.80       70,243.0        7.88
1995    11,498.0      70,505.0     13,870.3   14,257.1      15.76       8.09       73,658.1        4.47
1996    12,335.0      76,113.0     14,836.3   15,837.1      15.58       5.25       75,984.6       -0.17
1997    13,190.0      81,674.0     17,436.3   16,520.6      29.07      10.41       85,044.7        4.13
1998    14,093.0      87,931.0     17,132.3   17,344.0      17.23       8.19       88,016.7        0.10
1999    15,009.0      94,167.0     17,938.3   18,258.9      15.56       7.07       90,685.9       -3.70
2000    15,946.0     100,951.0     18,852.3   18,258.9      14.50       6.52       94,798.5       -6.09
2OOl    16,916.0     108,041.0    20,252.3   19,630.9       16.05       8.52      102,866.8       -4.79
2002    17,842.0     114,096.0     21,252.3   20,610.9      15.52       8.38      111,628.9       -2.16
lS   Dependable capacity minus peak demand.
L     Firm capacity minus peak generation.



TIID PR SST11  DEWLOMlET P
ElectricitY Cratiml  athoritv of Thi  d
ProieCted EY   eli
Type of                                                                    Fisctl Vow
p_u  plnt          1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996       1997      199       19"9      2o00       2001      202
eBh             4.147.0     3.665      5.410     5.410     5,515      5,sos     5.90      5.so      5.942     6.60       7.016     7.097     7,097
2                   9.6       7.3       9.9        9.1       8.5       6.4        7.6       7.2       6.6       7.0        7.0       6.6       6.2
lettwet GMe
sAb              16.7W8    18.846    21.747    22,083    24,890    28,830    30,a54    30.314    31.574    30,314    29.266    26.709    2.181
*                  36.9      37.7      39.6       37.o      36.2      40.9       40.S      37.1      35.9      32.2       29.0      26.6      25.3
GsA              12.415    14.4S1    14,403    18.019    20,533    21.s9       23.613    20.420    20.90    25.550      26.012    25.725     3.066
X                  26.7      26.9      26.5       30.2      31.5      30.6       31.o      25.2      23.6      25.0       25.6      23.a      20.2
BAh               175.0       368         -          -         -         -          -         -
X                   0.4       0.7                    -         - -                  -         -                              -         -
ob              3,914.0    11.950    12.320    13.470    13.470    13.470    14.20    17230    17.250    n19.1          24.120    32.005    35.947
X                  20.7      23.9      22.S       22.6      20.7      19.1      1.        21.2      19.A      20.4       23.6      29.s      31.5
lsmrted CAMl
GA                    -         -         -          -         -         -         6      6.900    11.5O     13,300    13.60    13.600   1U.400
X                     -         -         -          -                   -        1.0       8.4      u.1        14.7      13.7      12.6      16.2
BA                r50.0     740.0       740       T05        To       7To         7O5       705       705        05        705       706       705
X                   1.7       1.S        1.S       1.2       1.1       1.0        0.9       0.9       0.6       0.7        0.7       0.7       o.6
Tot l (Cu)        43.W   M   U tJ9   54,670    59.717    j.1U3    70.511  71113 U -674    W51                  4L1S 100-ff1  JOB.01   114,0



- 55-
AEX 8
Pag 1 of 2
THIN PA SYSTOE DELOPVIIT PROJECT
Eletrieity Gnersti   Authority of Thaeftn
Pak llun Hvdromwr Prolect: Techn1ac l eature.
Location                                                  am mm river, 5.5 Is upstram of           river
Purporo                                                   Powr, Irrigation, fishry
Nydrotogy
Draiona  area                                           117,000 sq km
Average ftow                                            760 cimc
Design flood
10-year                                               5,400 cusacs
lOO-year                                              11,900 cumcs
1,000-year                                            18,500 cuwmco
Reservoir
Norma hidh water t et (MMWL)                             106 U MUL
Minim  operatlon levl                                     105.5 m *SL
Active Storag                                             115 million cm
Surface are  at NWHWL                                     60 sq km
DM
Type                                                    1o.ltr-copectsd
Maxim  height                                           17 U
Crest leoth                                             300 -
Ffit votue                                              104,000 co
Upstrom  nd dowmatrom slopes                            1:1.75
Spil t y
Type                                                    Overflow-gatad
M:  er of gates                                         a
Size of gates                                           14.75 * x 22.5 * (hxw)
Capity                                                  18,500 cumcs
Maxim flood lel  (uItro_)                              11.OS5 a NSL
Maxil flood leveL (dontrem)                             106.50 * NM.
Crest *Ievotion                                         94 * NSL
Chnrne
Excavation voluw                                        1.0 million co
Powerhouse
Type of turbfne                                         Bulb
Nieabr of units                                         4
Unit capcty                                             34MN
No minl gross head                                      11.6 .
Minm  generating heed                                   4.3 a
Maxim  gros head                                        15 m
minatl unit discharge                                   330 cuics
Arimel net nrgy                                         280 G0h
irrigation area
Potential cao_n  area                                   260 sq km
Pilot schem  are                                        73 sq km



- 56 -
Page 2 of 2
Pink Unw Nwdraamaer ProIqcts Co t Ectlo to
(US miltion)
Itim                                                               Local           Foreign        Total
Proliminary works                                                    6.13             0              6.13
Coopwnstfon, rosttlntnt od
wwi ron  ntol                                                     22.41             0             22.41
Civil torks                                                         2SSS             17U            43.73
Hydroulic *qulp.4mt                                                  1.28             6.15           7.43
Electro-oachanical equlpo nt                                         5.02            41.10          46 12
Nlih voltag  system                                                  0.41             3.U            4.26
Tronomiclon system                                                   3.69             5.35           9.04
Engin"ering d *d Iniftrative ovrheds                                 4.64             0              4.64
Conrulting srvfice                                                   2.53             3.43           S96
Dutles nW taxes                                                      9.92             0              9.92
Bgg cost                                                         n1 S                7          152.44
Physical continonces                                                 4.09             3.88           7.97
Price contingoncies                                                  5.15             4.90          10.06
TotAL Cost                                                                                     _177



- 57 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mae Moh Mlne ElDan lon
Technical AsDects and Cost Estimate
Mae Koh Lignite Mines Prograa to Year 2023
1.    The Mae Moh project is being planned on the basis of a full-life
operational plan, recently up-dated in July 1990 by EGAT and its long-term
consultants, Coleman and Partners, of Sydney, Australia. To date, EGAT has
constructed, and has in operation, nine generating units in the Mae Moh
valley, the first three of 75MW capacity, the next four of 150MW capacity and
the remaining two of 300MW capacity. The program involves the construction of
ten further units, i.e. 300MW units 10 through 17, and 450MW units 18 and 19.
Units 10 through 13 will be in the Mae Moh valley and 14 through 19 in the
Lampang valley, about 16 km to the north-west.
2.    Only two-thirds of the economically available lignite in the Mae Moh
basin has been scheduled for mining for units 1 through 19 over their useful
life, i.e. to the year 2023. This is regarded as an adequate safety margin in
case of unforeseen difficulties which might be encountered in the later,
deeper stages of mine exploitation. Very recent technical studies have,
however, indicated the need for careful investigation of the subsurface water
level before a final decision is taken on the ultimate development of the Mae
Moh - Lampang complex to its planned capacity.
3.    According to the July 1990 plan, maximum usage of lignite is programmed
to peak at about 31 million tonnes per year in 1998 and gradually decline to
zero at the end of 2023. The 1998 peak is four times the level of the 1990
production and is illustrated graphically in Figure 1. This figure shows the
planned annual power generation ard the incidence of commissioning and
retiring of the generating units.
4.    In order to keep ahead of lignite production, overburden removal must be
increased more than fourfold from its existing level by 1998. The great
majority of the necessary overburden removal is to be accomplished by seven
contracts to be let to the Thai private sector. A pilot contract, commenced
in 1983, was completed in 1990 and the first of the seven regular contracts
has already been awarded and is to comence early in 1991. Figure 2 shows the
approximate timing and volume of these contracts and shows the minor, though
important, role which EGAT's own equipment fleet will play in the future.



- 58 -
Annex 9
Pape 2 Of 4
Fig. 1 Mae Moh: Planned generating capability and lignite production
Planned generating capability (MW)                                       Planned lignite production (Mtpyl
5000
450                                                300
|   l |  ,+~~~~capability (MW) |:i  
400D
25:
3004                           _                     |   _      h        \                        . :20
25W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
: 2000    __a    _    .    \    :.   C;   :.:::  ....1
500  A -Pla n c~~~ned   ligite production (Mtpy)                                      :,:    ...:
:S : 0 0                                                                 ------ -,                         .::::.,
1990        1995         2000         2005         2010         2C15         2020         2025
Operating life of planned generating sets
____M__sets 75MWsets
-EEl                                           10 -z300MWb               :: ii :i3  s  .
HEEl    12,
mElK"N         :  :m!
.*I ~        ~ i n                                         15t 6      . 
1990        1995         2000          2005        2010         2015          2020        2025            x
SeouM; ECAT and Bankestimate



- 59 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
Fig. 2  Mae Moh overburden removal program  and contracts
kllion ban), cubic neters (Mbcnm) per vear
'160' .':9
COZL# Mbcm
1     245
8.  .                |                        .  -   -       :                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: : . >..
2     325
3     9mO
4      14
5     S32
~~~~~~~~~..                          ~  .~.. 111EA :||111 .   .
80.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
: 1.lit          1995            2000           2005           2010           201S           2020             .
Sounra:MaeMoh Unit 1.19 MUining 5i'2dy, luly 1990                                                                  i" 



- 60 -
Page 4 of 4
Mae Moh Mine Exoanhion for Units 8 and 9! Cost EstLmate
(US$ million)
Iteom                                     Local        Foreign       Total
Civll work.                                 1.20          0            1.20
Dana and diversions                         0.88          0            0.88
Mining equipment
Lignite conveyors                         8.00        12.00         20.00
Power supply modification.                0.67         1.03          1.70
Motor graders                             0             1.26         1.26
Crawler tractor                           0            0.87          0.87
Wheeled dozers and loaders                0             1.29         1.29
Drills                                    0             3.14         3.14
Trailers, trucks and other
vehicles                               0            2.56          2.56
Mobile cranes                             0             2.20         2.20
Electric pumps                            0            1.46          1.46
Laboratory equipment                      0            0.69          0.69
Engineering and administrative
overheads                               0.25         0.50          0.75
Duties and taxes                          8.00         0             8.00
Base Cost                          19 00         2Z.00         46 00
Physical contingencies                    1.90         2.50          4.40
Price contingencies                       2.90         4.70          7.60
Total Cost                         23.80         34.20         58 00



- 61 -                      ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 10
THIRD POE  SYSTEM DEVEILPMENT PROJECT
Mae Moh Mine and Power Development
A. Environmental Impact Assessment - Summary
B. Environmental Monitoring Network
A. Environmental IM2act Assessment - Summary
Background
1.        The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) has been
developing the lignite resources in the Mae Moh valley for power
generation since the 1970's. Tho steam power generators at Mae Moh
currently comprise eleven units of which nine units with a total capacity
of 1,425 MW are in operation and two units of 300 MW each (Units 10 and
11) are in an advanced stage of construction and expected to be
operational by April 1991 and September 1991, r3spectively. EGAT plans to
install two additional generators (Units 12 and 13) of 300 MW each at the
present site by 1996, bringing the total capacity to 2,625 MW. Future
generating capacity additions are planned at Laupang (18 km away from the
present site) where six units having a total capacity of 2,100 MW are
planned to be installed by 2003. Lignite, mined by trucks and shovels and
crushed by semi-mobile crushing stations, would be conveyed by in-pit
conveyors to the present power station site and by two overland conveyors
to Lampang. Overburden and interburden would be conveyed by dump trucks
to waste crushers prior to disposal at surface dumps. Crushed waste would
be delivered by conveyors to two dumping areas, with some 30X of the waste
replaced in the mining pit.
Potential Significant Environmental Impacts
2.        Potential significant environmental impacts of the Mae Moh mine
and power development would be caused by:
(a) atmospheric emissions of dust, sulphur dioxide (SO2) and
nicrogen oxides (NOx) from the mine and the power plant;
(b)  offluent water discharges from the mine and the power
plant; and
(c) loss of vegetative cover over the mined-out area and the
overburden dumps.
3.        Noise emissions from the power plant and mining operations are
not expected to have significont impv'    s nearby villages have been/are
being/will be resettled to reasonably c    nt locations.  The impact on
flora and fauna in the development area would also not be significant as



- 62 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 10
the area designated for mining and power generation in the Mae Moh valley
has been repeatedly exploited for its timber resources since 1924.
Imnact from Atmospheric Emissions
Air Ouality Monitoring
4.        EGAT has in operation an air quality monitoring network at 20
locations to measure ambient levels. These comprise:
(a) one station monitoring respirable dust levels within the
mining area; eleven statiotns with high volume air monitors
monitoring 24-hour-average total suspended particles (TSP); and
twelve stations with dust monitoring gauges monitoring dust
fallout rates over a 30-day period; and
(b) three stations with continous S02 and N02 monitors; eight
stations with bubblers monitoring 24-hour S02 and N02 values;
and four stations with sulfation candles monitoring ambient S02
levels over a 30-day period.
5.        KBN Engineering and Applied Sciences (USA) was engaged by EGAT
to analyze air quality monitoring data up to 1988, and to assess the
impacts on ambient air quality with planned expansion of power generating
capacity to Unit 11. Assessments based on KBN's report are summarized
below.
Dust Levels
6.        Dust levels with current operations are generally within
acceptable limits. Annual average dust fall rates outside the mining area
are below 10 grams per square meter per month (g/sq m/month) and show no
correlation to the increase in mining activities over thj years,
indicating that non-mining sites are not being significantly affected by
mining activities. Annual average dust fall rates within the mining area
have decreased from about 70 g/sq n/month in 1986 to about 40 g/sq
m/month, iadicating that control measures introduced by EGAT since 1986,
including watering of overburden truck haulage roads and use of conveyors
rather than trucks to deliver crushed overburden to disposal areas, have
been effective. There are currently no IBRD guidelines for dust fall
levels; however, dust fall levels in non-mining areas at Mae Moh are well
below some US and Canadian standards which range from 14 to 20 g/sq
m/month. Annual average total suspended particle (TSP) levels outside the
mining areas have remained substantially constant at about 100 micro grams
per cubic meter (ug/cu m), whereas annual average TSP levels in the mining
area have declined slightly from about 300 ug/cu m in 1986 to about 270
ug/cu m. The IBRD TSP standard of 100 ug/cu m annual average has been
exceeded at several monitoring stations, whereas the IBRD 24-hour standard
of 500 ug/cu m has been exceeded only at one station.
7.        Increase in the mining activity with additional units 10 and 11
coming into operation would require certain mitigation measures which EGAT
plans to undertake. These would include:



- 63 -                        ANNEX 1Q
Page 3 of 10
(a) Increased watering of haul roads to improve the efficiency
of reduction in dust emissions; and using water sprays on other
particularly dusty areas;
(b) Improving efficiency of electrostatic precipitators on
units 1 and 2;
(c) Intensifying monitoring operations, through extending
monitoring stations and increasing monitoring frequency at
critical locations; improving the data base and analysis of
data.
8.        TSP levels predicted by KBN consultants with and without
mitigation measures within and outside the mining area are sumuarized in
Table 1 below. With mitigation measures adopted, all areas outside the
mine would comply with the IBRD 24-hour maximum guideline. However, two
of these areas would not comply with the IBRD annual average guideline;
this is believed to be due to the vicinity of public roads. Within the
mining area, high dust levels cannot be avoided and have to be accepted.
The annual average dust level near the teak plantation is considered to be
acceptable.
Table L: PREDICTED TSP LEVELS (ug/cu m) WITH 11 UNITS
Location                Without Mitigation        With Mitization
Annual Av.   24-Hour   Annual Av.   24-Hour
Areas within and in the vicinity of the mine
West of pit              585          1,341       451           1,010
Gor Or                   218            609       173             458
Wieng Sawan              240            649       189             480
Moh Luang                490          1,200       390             940
Hua Thung                380            878       294             640
Hua Fai                  295            810       223             596
Hang Hung                173            538       139             395
Talat                    104            310        90             232
Areas outside the mine
Ban Dong                 173            538       139             395
Mae Koh Forest Off.      122            325       101             244
Ban Thai Si              119            362        99             271
EGAT Housing             214            631       171             476
Ban Huai King             84            281        74             212
Tha Patun                 48            116        46              88
Na Khaem                  48            126        46              94
Mae Chang Teak           151            372       122             274
PlantLton



- 64 -                       ANNE  10
Page 4 of 10
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Levels
9.        The boilers of the power plants at Mae Moh are designed to
minimise NOx emissions and emissions of NO2 are well within IBRD
guidelines. The average of the annual average ambient air NO2 levels
measured at various stations has been about 10 ug/cu m, about one tenth of
the IBRD guideline of 100 ug/cu a. NO2 levels predicted by KBN when 11
units are in operation are tabulated in Table 2 for representative areas
within the Mae Moh valley and for areas on the top of the surrounding
mountains. Except for one mountain top location, the values are within
the IBRD standard of 100 ug/cu a. The National Environmental Board of
Thailand (NEB) has a one-hour NO2 standard of 320 ug/cu a. The one-hour
standard would be greatly exceeded on the mountain tops for short periods.
Model predictions on hilly terrain are uncertain and need to be verified
by measurement which is extremely difficult. The mountain tops
surrounding the Mae Moh valley are, however, mostly bare rock outcrops and
the lower reaches do not contain vegetation of significant commercial or
ecological value. It is neither cost-effective nor neressary to make
plant modifications to meet air quality standards (both for NO2 and SO2)
at these locations.
Table 2: PREDICTED NO2 LEVELS (ug/cu m) WITH 11 UNITS
Location                           Annual Average
Mae Moh Valley
Areas within and in the vicinity of the mine
West of pit                               4.0
Ban Gor Or                                1.6
Moh Luang                                 7.5
Hang Hung                                 1.0
AreAs outside the Mine:
Ban Dong                                  7.0
Mae Moh Forest Off.                       4.9
"GAT Housing                              1.3
Mae Chang Teak Plantation                 2.3
Surrounding Mountain Tops
Doi Mae Ngua                             11.0
Doi Mae Man                              15.0
Doi Pha Khong                            24.0
Doi Pha Chang                            30.0
Doi Mok                                 45.0
Doi Pha Chi                              54.0
Doi Pha Tup                             122.0



- 65 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 10
In addition, the one-hour NEB standard would be exceeded in the mining
area by about 70X and in two of the uninhabited areas by about 91.
However, as the annual average values at all locations are well within
standards there would be no health-related problems. Based on predicted
compliance of N02 levels with IBRD standards, there is no need for any
mitigation measures.
Sulfur Dioxide (SO,) Levels
10.       The annual average values of S02 ambient levels measured by EGAT
have been within the IBRD standard of 100 ug/cu m. The maximum 24-hourly
levels measured by ECAT have also been within the IBRD standard of 500
ug/cu m, except on one occassion in 1986, when this value at one station
within the mining area was 688 ug/cu m (in subsequent years ths values at
this station have been well within standards). KBN has done extensive
modelling studies of S02 ambient levels. The predicted ambient SO2 levels
when: (a) 9 units are in operation; (b) 11 units are in operation; and (c)
13 units are in operation with units 12 and 13 employing wet scrubbers
having 90X S02 removal efficiency (a decision taken by EGAT), are given in
Table 3. These predictions are based on the worst case scenario of: (a)
all units operating at any given time (normally at least one unit would be
out for maintenance); and (b) wet scrubbers on units 12 and 13 operated
for only 4 winter months in the year (EGAT proposes to operate the
scrubbers throughout the year). It is seen from Table 3 that the ambient
S02 levels at all locations in the Mae Moh valley will be well within the
IBRD annual average and 24-hour maximum standards, except at one location
within the mine area, where it will exceed the 24-hour standard by about
171 for only one day in the year (the next highest predicted value being
well within standards). Except for this location, the ambient S02 levels
would also comply with the NEB national standard of 100 ug/cu a annual
average and 300 ug/cu m maximum 24-hour.
Ambient SO, Levels on the Mountain TODS
11.       The model-predicted concentrations of S02 on the mountain tops
are very high. Model predictions on hilly terrain are uncertain and need
to be verified by measurement which is extremely difficult. The mountain
tops surrounding the Mae Moh valley are, however, mostly bare rock
outcrops and the lower reaches do not contain vegetation of significant
comercial value. It would be totally impracticable and unjustifiable in
view of the exhorbitant cost involved to attempt to reduce ambient S02
values on the mountain tops to comply with standards. Model predictions
of ambient levels both in the valley and on mountain tops with Units 10
and 11 retrofitted with dry sorbent injection systems (that would reduce
S02 emissions from these units by about 501) indicate only marginal
reductions in ambient S02 levels on the mountain tops. In the next
several years, EGAT's key concern would be to control SO2 ambient levels
in the Mae Moh valley and the inhabited areas. Achievement of this
objective itsLlf would require certain actions which would have a
significant cost (see para. 13 below).



- 66 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 10
S02 Emission Standards
12.       Currently there is no SO2 emission standard in Thailand.  The
present value of S02 emission from units 1 through 9 is about 960 tonnes
per day (TPD), which will increase to about 1,350 TPD with unit 11 in
operation. These emission levels are large in absolute terms. However,
when viewed in the light of current and incremental ambient SO2 levels
within the Mae Moh valley, these emissions are considered to be
acceptable. With wet scrubbers provided on units 12 and 13, the
contribution to SO2 emission from these units would be only about 40 TPD
assuming year-round operation of the scrubbers.
Table 3: PREDICTED SO2 LEVELS (ug/cu m) WITH (a) 9 units;
(b) 11 units; and (c) 13 UNITS (WITH WET SCRUBBERS ON
UNITS 12 AND 13)
Location              9 Units             11 Units          13 Units
Ann.Av. 24-Hour   Ann.Av.  24-Hour  Ann. Av. 24-Hour
Areas within and_J_U__the vicinity of the mine
West of pit          22    451*        26       552*      28       588*
Cor Or               10    163         12       233       12       251
Wieng Sawan           8    137         12       210       12       256
Moh Luang            44    170         52       230       52       254
Hua Thung            41    142         50       187       51       208
Hua Fai              37    136        46        167       46       188
Hang Hung             6    103          7       110        7       114
Talat                 5    146          6       175        6       176
Areas outsidethebjmine
Ban Dong             40    133        48        161       49       166
Mae Moh Forest Off. 28    149          34       172       34       175
Ban Thai Si          38    140        47        162       47       162
EGAT Housing          7    138          8       214        9       249
Ban Huai King         4    108          5       170        6       200
Tha Patun             4      90         5       132        5       146
Na Khaem              2      84         2        94        3        94
Mae Chang Teak       12    238         16       352       16       352
Plantaticn
AveXage               19    158        24       208       24       224
* For only one day in the year.  Next highest values at these
locations are 262, 318 and 355 ug/cm., respectively.



- 67 -
Page 7 of 10
13.       EGAT would take actions necessary to limit ambient S02 levels
within the Mae Moh valley to comply with the IBRD guidelines. These would
comprise the following:
(a) Installation of wet scrubbers having 90X S02 removal
efficiency on the future units 12 and 13 and operating them
throughout the year as far as practicable;
(b) Retrofit units 10 and 11 with sorbent injection sytems at a
later date, should this become necessary to control ambient S02
levels in the Mae Moh valley;
(c) Instal a real-time air quality monitoring system to warn
the power plant operators of current or predicted high ambient
levels, so that power plant emissions could be reduced under
adverse meteorological conditions; and
(d) Take such other actions as feeding low sulfur lignite and
reducing loading of units 1,2 and 3 which are the largest
contributors to S02 ambient levels due to low chimney height.
14.       EGAT is in addition concerned with the long-term effects of the
502 emissions on the atmospheric conditions. It proposes to conduct a
number of studies in this regard to better understand the impacts which
should be an important input to EGAT's longer-term development strategy at
Mae Moh. These studies are listed in Para. 19 below.
Water Pollution
15.       Fresh water requirements of MAE Moh mine/power station complex
are supplied from two upstream reservoirs, the Huai Lang and the Mae
Chang, and all discharges from the complex find their way to the Mae Moh
reservoir (MMR) downstream. Fresh water is supplied to the forced-draft
cooling towers of the power plants, and the blow-down therefrom is used
for transporting furnace and fly ash and waste materials from the lignite
crushers to a settling pond, whose overflows find their way to the MMR.
Effluent water from the power plants is passed through oil/water
separators and treated by aeration before being discharged into the MMR.
There are two main sources of contaminated water from the mine: (a) direct
rainfall on the mining area; and (b) run-off from the overburden dumps.
Rain water collected in the mine sumps is used for dust control; but
during heavy rains excess water is pumped out of the mine sumps and finds
its way to the MMR. Run-offs from the overburden dumps are collected by
perimeter drains and led to a settling basin, overflows from which enter
the mine sumps.
16.       EGAT has been monitoring the quality of ambient water, mine
sumps, power plant drains, and ash disposal areas since 1979. In 1989,
EGAT engaged the services of KBN to analyze water quality data up to 1988
and to predict the likely impacts of the Mae Moh development up to unit
11.  KBN concluded that water from the MHR exceeded standards for
conductivity, total dissolved solids, alkalinity, hardness, calcium,



- 68 -                       ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 10
magnesium, sulphate, iron, lead, cadmium and chromium. The past and
predicted values of four of the more important parameters are tabulated in
Table 4 below
Actions ProRosed by EGAT
17.       In view of the KBN findings, EGAT is formulating a comprehensive
program to improve water quality that would inter alia include
(a) treatment of effluent by schemes such as recycling,
filtration, sedimentation, aeration, biological treatment, and
ph control as appropriate. EGAT has already carried out studies
to evaluate the effectiveness of artificial wetlands to treat
the various discharges and will be *rogressively installing
settling basins to control run-offL from over-burden dumps.
Effluents from the settling basins will be further treated by
passing through artificial wetlands prior to discharge into
drains/natural streams which end up in the MMR. EGAT also plAns
to construct an artificial wetland on the upstrem end of the MHP.
for additional treatment. EGAT will continue its policy of
maximizing the recycling of water. Drains would be constructed
to divert storm water run-offs from the mine pit to minimize
treatment loading. A new reservoir (Huai Pet) would be
constructed between the ash water lake and the MMR which will
act as a secondary water supply pond and also as a polishing
pond for power plant effluent discharges prior to entering the
MMR; and
(b) inaugurate a monitoring program to measure flow rates and
analyze quality of effluent water, that will form the basis for
engineering a suitable water treatment system.
Table 4: PAST AND PREDICTED WATER QUALITY
Parameter            1988 Mean      Predicted       Standard
Units 1-11
Conductivity umho/cu m      873             1364           300
Total dissolved solids      743              891           500
mg/l
Sulfate        mg/l         385              433           250
Hardness       mg/l         347              377            300
uoho/cu m - micro-mhos per cubic meter; mg/l - milligrams per liter



- 69 -
ANNEX 10
Page 9 of 10
Loss of Vegetative Cover- Mine Reclaimation Plan
18.       As part of the mining study relating to the ultimate development
of the lignite resources of the Mae Koh valley, EGAT has developed an
overall mine reclamation plan. The plan addresses the rehabilitation of
the mined-out pits and overburden dumps. It also includes a master plan
which provides for the ultimate utilization of the rehbilitated land with
the aim of allowing the areas disturbed by mining to be economically and
progressively returned to an environment consistent with and better than
that existing prior to the comencement of mining. EGAT has already
co mmenced studies of the overburden and interburden materials and
conducted experiments to determine the most suitable plant species for
reaforestation. Reaforestation would be a continuing process.
Further Studies
19.       As part of its environmental responsibilities associated with
the development of the Mae Moh mine and power plant complex, EGAT is
currently undertaking with consultant's assistance the following studies:
(a) Environmental and Social Impact Assessment of the Ultimate Power
Development at Mae Moh (including Lampang); (b) effects of high S02 levels
on the mountain tops on the mountain ecology; and (c) Acid Rain Study to
predict the longer-term effects of S02 and NOx emissions from Mae Moh.
The results of these studies will form the basis for EGAT's future plans
for the development of Mae Moh and in formulating actions to ameliorate
the adverse environmental impacts.
Mae Moh Environmental Manazement Coordinating Committee (MMEMCC)
20.       As part of the overall environmental management of the existing
and future power development in the Mae Moh valley, EGAT has set up an
MHEMC. The committee consists of representatives from EGAT, is chaired by
the Director, Mine Operations, and is assisted by a foreign environmental
advisor. There are three sub-committees - Water Quality, Air Quality and
Waste Management/Reclaimation which have responsibilities in the
corresponding areas. The MMEMC meets periodically at Mae Moh to formulate
action plans and monitor their implementation.
B. Environmental Monitoring Network
21.        In preparation for its ultimate expansion program at Mae Moh,
EGAT has undertaken a thorough review of its air quality monitoring
system. KBN have been commissioned to do detail design of a comprehensive
and a real-time air quality monitoring system (warning system)
incorporating a telemetry system, whose purpose would be to alert the
power plant operators of current or predicted high ambient levels, so that
plant omissions could be reduced by reducing the loading of generators
during adverse meteriological conditions. The basic plan would call for
increasing the number of monitoring stations from 20 to 24 and providing
additional monitoring equipment at some of the existing stations. The
additional equipment, which will cover SO0, NOx and dust monitoring, that
would be acquired to meet the requirements of the proposed network is
given below:



- 70 -                       AMM B 10
Page 10 of 10
A. Stack Monitoring
Mobile Extractive Stack Monitoring System comprizing:          1 set
SO2 Analyzer
NO-NO2-NOx Analyzer
Chart Recorder
Ozone Scrubber
Remote Display Panel
Stack Gas Conditioning Module
Transmissometer
Mobile Shelter with Air Conditioner
B. Data Acauisition System for Existing Stack Monitor          1 set
C. Ambient Air Ouslity Monitoring Systems                      9 sets
SO2 Analyzer
NO-NO2-NOx Analyzer
Data Acquisition System
Chart Recorder
S02dNO Blend Gas Cylinder
High Volume Sampler
Shelter with Air Conditioner
C. Meteriological Monitoring System                            1 set
(a) Meteriological Station including
Wind Recorder/10 m tower
Meteorograph
Raingauge
(b) Accessories for Mobile Doppler Sodar (Remote sensing of
temperature)
D. Data Handling and Analysis System                           1 set
E. Maintenance EauiRment                                       1 set



- 71 -                       ANNEX ll
Page 1 of 3
THIRD POWER SYSTE  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Demand Side Management and Electricity Conservation
Consulting Study -- Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), wholly
owned by the government, is charged with the responsibility of generating
and transmitting electricity throughout the kingdom of Thailand. EGAT
sells power in bulk to two government-owned distribution authorities, the
Metropolitan Electricity Authority MEA (demand 3,100 MW, energy 19,600 GWh
p.a.) and the Provincial Electricity Authority PEA (demand 3,700 MW,
energy 19,300 GWh p.a.). It also sells electricity directly to about 9
large high tension industrial consumers aggregating to a demand of about
210 MW and a consumption of about 1,300 GWh p.a.. Faced with a rapid
increase in demand, EGAT has a large power development program, which over
the next 10 years envisages a growth in sales from the current level of
about 7,000 MW, 39,000 GWh, to about 16,000 MW, 93,000 GWh. Side by side
with increasing supply, EGAT would like to explore possibilities for
demand-side planning and management through load management and allied
activities with the dual objective of influencing the utility's load and
fostering electricity conservation.
2.        Energy conservation is being given serious attention in Thailand
and concerted efforts are underway to promote energy conservation in all
sectors of the economy. The government has proposals to: (a) provide low
interest funds for industrial electricity saving; (b) increase the budget
for creating public awareness and strengthening public relations efforts;
and (c) provide incentives for the development of energy-efficient
appliances. The National Energy Administration (NEA), a government owned
organization, has formulated a detailed plan for the saving of
electricity, envisaging a reduction of about 160 MW and 900 GWh over the
next three years.   NEA's report titled "Electricity Savings Plan for the
Industrial, Commercial and Residential Sectors" is attached as it serves
to indicate the amount of work already done on load analysis. EGAT has
also made a start towards load management by introducing time-of-day
tariffs in January 1990 for large industries. The Ministry of Interior
has recent .y completed a two-weeks "Training-for Trainees" program and
technical workshop to build the technical and administrative capabilities
in Demand-Side Management and Energy Conservation. An abstract of load
research work done prior to this is attached for information. A recent
consulting study on the long-run marginal cost of electrcity is also
available. Daily/annual load curves of EGAT, MEA and PEA are attached.
Objectives and Sco2e of the Studv
3.        The primary objective of the consulting study is to develop a
master plan that should be adopted for demand side management by the Thai



- 72 -
ANNEX  
Page 2 of 3
electricity industry with the dual objective of influencing the nature of
the system's demand and achieving conservation in the use of electricity.
The master plan would determine not only what plan of actions EGAT should
adopt, but should also take into consideration the involvement in this
process of the major distribution utilities, MEA and PEA, which directly
serve a much larger number of consumers and a much larger quantum -f load
than EGAT. It should also consider the involvement of government a6ua.cies
concerning tax incentives.    The master plan would evolve the basic
approach to demand side management and indicate the actions that should be
jointly and severally undertaken by the three utilities.
4.        The consultant'r scope of work would inter alia require
consideration of the state-of-the-art techniques in load management such
as peak clipping, valley filling, load shifting, strategic load growth,
strategic conservation, flexible load shaping etc. and consider some of
the following means of achieving the desired goals:
(a) indirect actions or control e.g. conservation, end-use
efficiency improvement, incentives, and customer installed
energy management systems;
(b) direct utility control of customers e.g. demand limiters
and utility installed energy management systems;
(c) customer awareness;
(d) rate design including time-of-day pricing, peak rates and
interruptible rates;
(e) installation of energy storage;
(f) performance indices to monitor the result of each action
plan.
5.        The consultant would need to review all available studies,
assess if any further studies need to be carried out and develop a scope
and time frame for such studies. The consultant should take into account
the electricity conservation measures proposad to be implemented by other
agencies notably the NEA, assess the practicability of achieving the
targets set, recomend improvements if any and then propose a plan of
action to be pursued by EGAT, MEA and PEA, that would complement (but not
duplicate) the work proposed to be done by NEA and the Ministry of
Interior. In designing the plan, the consultant would need to take
intoaccount the likely response of consumers to the proposed mechanisms
for load control. It would also be necessary to take into consideration
the institutional capabilities of the utilities while formulating the
demand side management plan.
6.        The overall master plan would be broken down into a series of
action plans for each of which a cost-benefit analysis should be performed
in economic terms for the country's benefit as well as in financial terms
for the utilities' operations.  It is expected that the demand ide
management activity would be pursued on a continuing basis and the



- t3 -                          ANNEX2 ^1
Page 3 of 3
consultant would be required to assess the institutional and budjetary
resources for pursuing this activity. The consultant would have to
recommend state-of-the-art technologies for hardware, communication links
and software for accomplishing load management. Finally, the consultant
would be expected to recommend measures for integrating demand-side
management planning with supply-side least-cost-planning for generation
expansion, and institutionalizing this activity so that the benefits and
costs of demand side planning are directly reflected in the utility's
planning process.
Conduct of the Study
7.        The study will be conducted in two phase.. as below:
(a)  Phase 1  To be completed within two to three months.  This
phase would comprise discussions with EGAT, KEA, PEA and
other government agencies, and review of existing studies
to be followed by an interim report that would present: (a)
a clear definition of objectives; (b) a broad assessment of
the technical and economic feasibility and scope for demand
side management; (c) the most appropriate (cost-effective)
methods of achieving the objectives; (e) a good idea of
which utility should be doing what; and (d) a broad
esti2mate of the costs and benefits. The report should also
indicate if any furtner studies need to be done. The
report would be discussed with EGAT and the Bank before
embarking on the second phase of the work.
(b) Phase 2 To be completed within two to three months. This
phase would comprise further work necessary to formulate
the detailed master plan for demand side management
covering the scope of work outlined in paras. 3-6 above and
presentation of a draft final report. The report would be
discussed with EGAT and the Bank prior to finalization.
8.        Further assistance may be sought from the consulting firm in the
implementation of the recomendations but that would be covered by
separate terms of reference.
Consultant's Oualifications and Inputs
9.        The consultant for this study is expected to be a utility or a
combination of a utility and a consulting firm, that has had extensive
experience in formulating demand side management programs and actually
implementing such planning and management schemes in a large electric
utility. A total of about 30 manmonths of consulting work is foreseen for
this study. EGAT would provide a high level of counterpart asmsistance
during the course of this study. The consultant is encouraged to visit
Thailand to assess the scope of work prior to making a proposal.



- 74 -                       ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 7
ILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Environmental RegulatorX Agencies and Environmental Standards
for the Power and Mining Sectors
Background
1.        In Thailand, three agencies are involved in the environmental
regulatory aspects of the Power and Mining sectors. These are: (a) the
National Environmental Board (NEB) which ip responsible for developing
broad environmental policies and plans, establishing ambient environmental
quality standards, educating the public in environmental matters and
approving all Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs); (b) the Department
of Industrial Works (DIW) responsible for issuing licences, establishing
emission standards, monitoring compliance, responding to complaints and
enforcing regulations for the Industrial sector which includes the Power
sector; and (c) the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) responsible for
similar functions as the DIW but for the Mining sector which includes
EGAT's mining activities. As desired by the government, the present
project would address issues concerning the strengthening of NEB, DIV and
DMR as well as the Public Works Department (PWD).
Acts and Standards
2.         Thailand has established ambient air and water quality
standards and standards for effluent discharges from industries, but there
are currently no standards for emission of pollutants into the atmosphere
(see para. 12 onwards) nor for workplace safety. Emission standards are
the most direct means for enforcing environmental compliance. While DIW
is the agency responsible for developing emission standards, it has still
to make progress in this field, in part due to resistance from several
vested interest groups. This issue needs to be tackled with a forceful
mandate to the agency responsible for formulating the standards. DIW has
also not fulfilled its legislated mandate for establishing workplace
safety standards. DIW would need to consult the Departmernt of Public
Health (DPH) which currently sets ambient worker environment standards and
the Departoant of Labour in framing safety standards for machinery and
industrial processes. The Factory Act which governs the operations of DIW
and the Minerals Act which governs the operations of DMR are outdated and
need to be reviewed, with particular emphasis on strengthening the hands
of the regulatory agencies in enforcing compliance with environmental
standards.
Environmental Monitoring and Enforcement
3.        The organizations of DIW and DMR are not adequately structured
to enable the agencies to carry out their mandates effectively in the
environmental field. There is thus a need for a review of critical
organization functions and methods. Tho environmental monitoring and
enforcement capabilities of the agencies are hampered due to lack of
training in this field and the paucity of environmentel monitoring
equipment and laboratory facilities. At present ambient air quality



- 75 -
Page 2 of 7
monitoring in limited to the Bangkok metropolitan area and its imediate
vicinity. The extent of ambient water quality monitoring or ambient noise
monitoring is not clear. For effectively fulfilling its role in this
regard, the NEB needs to set up comprehensive, nationwide environmental
quality monitoring network(s) and to ensure cost effectiveness in the
collection of environmental data close cooperation between NEB, EGAT, DIW
and DMR is necessary, which does not exist today.
Proposed Project's ScoDe
4.        The proposed project would cover the following:
(a) Technical assistance and training of staff in: (i) review
of EIAs of large power development prcjects; (ii) defining
the needs for air quality monitoring; and (iii)
establishing end operating nationwide air quality
monitoring networks; and
(b) Procurement of ambient quality monitoring equipment and
allied facilities.
DIU and DiR
(a) Technical assistance and training of staff in monitoring of
air, noise and effluent emissions from factories (including
power plants) and mines, including hands-on operational
training on monitoring equipment;
(b' Technical assistance in : (i) review of critical
organization functions and methods; (ii) review of the
Factory and the Minerals acts with special emphasis on
environmental and safety related aspects; (iii) review of
and assistaice in the preparation of emis3ion and effluent
and work-place safety standards; and (iv) training in the
review of EIAs of specific projects; and
(c) Procurement of air and effluent monitoring equipment and
laboratory facilities.
rim
(a) Technical assistanie and training of staff in design,
operation and maintenance of sewage systems;
(b) Technical assistance in: (i) reviewing present organization
structure and recommending strengthening neanures tc meet
the requirements of implementing a 5-year sewage works
program in major cities; (ii) reviewing standards,
guidelines, design criteria and processes and recommending
systems most appropri_:e for various sanitary districts;
and (tli) reviewing operational training needIs and



- 76 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 7
institutionalizing training systems for the center and the
districts.
Technical Assistance
5.        Technical assistance in the review of the organization functions
and methods, defining the needs for air quality monitoring, review of and
assistance in the preparation of effluent and safety standards and review
of Factory and Minerals acts, would be covered by about 50 man-months of
consultancy assistance.
Training
6.        Personnel training and development would cover the following
areas:
(a) review and evaluation of EIA's particularly for large power
stations and mine developments;
(b) identification of appropriate impact prediction techniques
and development of skills in the application of those
techniques;
(c) environmental data collection, analysis and interpretation;
(d) formulation of environmental control strategy; and
(e) defining environmental monitoring needs and formulating
appropriate monitoring strategy.
7.        The training would be imparted through: (a) engaging experts to
work with appropriate staff on specific projects; (b) seminars conducted
by experts with emphasis on practical applications; and (c) attachment
training by having persorLs attached to experienced sister organizations.
8.        The following training courses are envisaged to be conducted in
Thailand
(a)  Air pollution monitoring - source and ambient (three week
course);
(b) Water pollution monitoring - source and ambient (two week
course);
(c) Noise pollution monitoring - source and ambient (one week
course);
(d) Environmental impact assessment methodology for power
sector with case studies (three week course);
(e) Environmental impact assessment methodology for mining
sector with case studies (two week course);



-77 -                          ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 7
9.        Together with haads-on training in the use of environrental
monitoring equipment, the total consultancy effort for training is
envisaged at about 65 man-months.
Procurement of Eguinment
10.       The following is a list of equipment proposed to be procured to
assist DIW and DMR in their source monitoring functions:
For NEB
Four Stationary ambient air quality      US$1,200,000
monitoring stations
Four mobile ambient air quality          US$  600,000
monitoring units
Four rain acidity monitors               US$  320,000
Eight atmospheric emission source
monitoring stations                       US$  560,000
Eight mobile laboratories for water
sampling and treatment                   US$  240,000
Eight four-wheel drive vehicles          US$  300,000
Eight data processing facilities         US$  120,000
Four regional laboratories               US$  280,000
TotalA                                    USS3 620 000
For DIW
Two Mobile atmospheric emission
source monitoring stations               US$140,000
Two Mobile laboratories
for sampling of effluents                US$ 70,000
Two Four-wheel drive vehicles             US$ 80,000
Two Data Processing units                 US$ 30,000
Total                                     USS320 000



- 78 -
- 78 -               ~~~~ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 7
Two Mobile laboratories for
sampling of affluents                    US$ 70,000
Two Four-wheel drive vehicles             US$ 80,000
Two Data Processing units                 US$ 30,000
Eight Dust Monitors                      US$ 20,000
XToa1                                     USS20000Q0
SumAry of Proieet Cost:
11.       The estimated cost of the project for strengthening DIV and DMR
is as follows:
Technical      Training        Equipment       Total
Assistance
. -                  US$ OOOs ---------------------
NEB             100            200           3,620           3,920
DIW             310            350             320             980
DMR             100            200             200             500
FWD            250              50               0             300
Total           760            800           4 140           5 700
Status of Environmental Standards
12.       With respect to the power sector (in fact, for all industries),
the only emission standard for atmospheric discharges is on intensity of
smoke emissions measured in terms of the Ringlemann scale. There are no
noise emission standards other than in relation to occupational exposure.
There are emission standards for industrial effluents set down by DIW
which may be regarded as applicable to power station discharges. These
standards set discharge limits for: BOD, Suspended solids, Dissolved
solids, pH, Permanganate, Sulfide, Cyanide, Tar, Oil and grease,
Formaldehyde, Phenol and cresols, Free chlorine, Insecticides,
Radioactivity, Zinc, Chromium, Arsenic, Copper, Mercury, Cadmium, Barium,
Selenium, Lead, Nickel, Manganese, and Silver.



- 79 -               ~~~ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 7
13.       There are no ambient noise standards.  But there are ambient air
quality standards. There are two types of water quality standards. One
is applicable to specified coastal waters, such as the Coastal Water
Quality Standards for Karon Bay, Phuket. The other is the surface water
quality standards which vary according to the classification of the water
bodies. The parameters specified are: Temperature, pH, Dissolved oxygen,
BOD, total Coliform, Faecal Coliform, Nitrate nitrogen, Amonia,Nitrogen,
Phenols, Copper, Nickel, Manganese, Zinc, Cadmium, Chromium (hexavalent),
Lead, Mercury, Arsenic, Cyanide, Radioactivity - Gross alpha, Gross beta,
Pesticides (standards for both total and specified substances).
14.       For the purposes of the water quality standards, waters are
classified into five classes dependent on the existing conditions and
uses. The standards were set down by the Ministry of Science, Technology
and Energy.
15.       The existing ambient air quality standards of relevance to the
power sector set limits on the levels of: Carbon monoxide, Nitrogen
dioxide, Sulfur dioxide, and Suspended particulate matter.
Assessment
16.       Emission standards are preferred from a regulatory point of
view. Such standards lend themselves readily to enforcement by the
regulatory authority. Enforcement of the environmental quality standards
may not be as simple. It is not an easy matter to identify the source
which is causing a violation of a given environmental quality standards.
But from the point of view of environmental protection, the most direct
measures of the health of the environment are of course the various
envirormental parameters. It is advisable to have both the emission and
environmental quality standards. But only emission standards are
worthwhile to be included in legislations. The desirable levels for the
various environmental quality parameters should be promulgated as goals to
be achieved.
17.       As discussed earlier, there are only limited environmental
emission standards of relevance to the power sector at th4.s stage except
for the water discharges and water quality standards. The standards on
water discharges and water quality are considered to be most
comprehensive.
18.       It is not considered necessary to have noise emission standards
at this stage. However, ambient noise standards will be appropriate. A
realistic approach is to set the allowable increase over the natural
background levels. The magnitude of this increase will vary dependent on
the characteristics of the noise source (e.g. steady noise, impulse noise
or tonal noise).
19.       It is considered that work should begin on evaluating the
appropriate emission standards for atmospheric discharges. With respect
to the power sector, the parameters should include: Particulates, Sulfur
Dioxide, Nitrogen Dioxide, Oxides of Nitrogen, Fluorides, Trace elements
(such as mercury, arsenic, cadmium, and lead). Investigations should also
be comenced to study and define ambient air quality goals for fluorides.



- 80 -                         ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 7
The standards and goals should be arrived at by specialist committees
which should have experts on the assessment of environsental impacts of
pollutants, experts on control technologies, and experts on public health.
Industries should also be represented on these committees. This is to
ensure that all views are con idered and balanced recommendations are
arrived at.
20.       The setting of environsental standards be it eoLssion or
environmental quality standards, is an exercise in compromise. The final
outcome reflect the balance of what is acceptable to protect public
health, what is desirable for the environment, what is achievable
technically and what is affordable financially. The decision is
influenced by environmental considerations, the social and economic
objectives of a government and the prevaillng political realities.



- 81 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 10
THAND
THIRD POWFR SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAK HUN HYDROPOWER PROJECT RESETTLEMENT. ECOLOGY AND HEALTH ASPECTS
Backeround
1.             The Pak Mun hydropower project, situated in the northeastern
region of Thailand, will be constructed on the Hun River, about 5.5 km upstream
from its confluence with the Mekong River. It involves construction of a 17 a
high, 300 m long roller-compacted concrete dam, creating a reservoir of 225
million cm capacity and submerging an area of about 60 sq km. The power plant
will comprise 4x34 MW bulb turbine generator units, operating at a low nominal
gross head of 11.5 a. The project creates the potential for irrigating about
64,0'0 acres of land, of which 18,000 acres are proposed to be developed in the
first stage. A detailed feasibility study of the project was completed by
consultants in December 1985 and it was concluded that the project does not face
any seismological risks. The original design for Pak Mun which was based on
maximising the project's power benefits called for a Full Supply Level (FSL) of
112 m with the dam located at Kaeng Tana rapids. An EIA was carried out for the
project in 1982 based on these parameters. In order to reduce the project's
adverse environmental impacts (i.e. submergence of rapids which are tourist
attractiona and displacement of a large number of persons), the project
parameters were substantially revised, at the expense of the project's power
benefits. The dam was relocated to Ban Hua Heo thereby preserving the
downstream Kaeng Tana rapids and the operating regime of the power station was
so planned as to preserve the upstream Kaen Saphu rapids. The FSL was lowered
from 112 m to 108 m with a dam height of 17 m thereby reducing the number of
people to be resettled from over 20,000 to about 1,500 people (248 families).
I. Resettlement .nd Rehabilitation
Affected Pogulation
2.             The affected population lives in riverine villages of Ubon
Ratchathani Province between the Pac Mun damsite and the Kaeng Saphu Rapids at
elevations that will be flooded by creation of the reservoir. In the past,
houseplots with homes elevated on posts, and farmlands at or below EL 108 m were
seasonally flooded for several weeks each year, but for much of the year the
areas to be affected remained above water. With completion of the Pak Mun Dam
the areas below EL 108 m will be flooded for most of the year. Therefore,
families whose houseplots and farmlands are expected to be affected are to be
resettled on land at higher elevations. The affected population includes
households below EL 108 m, households between EL 108 and 108.5 m whose lands or
housplots would be affected by wave action for part of the year, and the
households of the village Ban Hua Heo located at the damsite itself.
Preliminary surveys indicate that submergence due to the project would require
resettlement of about 248 households (in 11 villages). Detailed planning
surveys now under way indicate that lands of a few hundred additional households



- 82-                        ANNUEX 13
Page 2 of 10
would be affected to varying degrees.  Table 1 displays the total number of
households to be resettled ln these three areas.
Table1: HOUSEHOLDS TO BE RESETTLED
Location                                   Nos.
Households below 108 a                     142
Households at 108 - 108.5 a                 95
Ban Hua Heo Village (dausite)               11
Toal Xl
Resettlement Objectives and Planning
-i            EGAT has established the followLng tesettlement objectives:  (a)
provide infrastructure and economic assistance opportunities for affected
households to improve their standard of livelihood; and (b) provide affected
households with a choice among alternative resettlement arrangements.
4.            To minimize the economic and social disruption caused by
involuntary resettlement, EGAT has designed a two-part strategy which will offer
a choice to all affected families. Those households between EL 107 and 108.5 m
whose farmlands remain cultivable and have only to move their houses to a higher
elevation will be provided the option of backfilling to raise the houseplot to
EL 108.5 m and moving or reconstructing their houses on the new backfilled plot.
Approximately 100 households below EL 108 and the 95 households at El 108-108.5
m are expected to select this option.
5.            The 11 households living on tne left bank% dsamite, the
construction area, will be relocated to the area allocated along the left bank
access road just 1.5 km from their original place. Each family would be
provided 0.32 ha of land and a new house. Another 42 households are expected to
elect resettlement to 288 ha of land located at the base of the existing
Sirindhorn Dam, located approximately 10 km from the Pak Hun dasaite, and near
the EGAT township serving both Pak Hun Dam and Sirindliorn Dam. Each household
will be provided an 800 m2 houseplot and 1. 6 ha of farmland which will be
irrigated from the existlng Sirindhorn reservoir. Construction of the
irrigation system is expected to take only one season, so that resettled
families may receive the benefits almost immediately. The land being made
available is EGAT property (the site of the construction colony for Sirindhorn
Dam built in the 1960s), is relatively level, near water supply sources and is
located conveniently to a highway. The land will be cleared of seccndary growth
and scrub, leveled and terraced and the main irrigation delivery channels
installed. In additioni to irrigated agricultural land, affected people will
also have continuing access to the river and the expanding fishing opportunities
of the Pak Hun and Sirindhorn reservoirs. While none are full-time fisherfolk



- 83 -                       ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 10
today, almost all do some fishing for subsistence purposes. Affected families
at any elevation mAy elect to move to this resettlement area; they need not
accept a backfilled plot in their existing village if they do not wish to do so.
6.             In addition to the irrigation delivery system, public
infrastructure to be constructed at the resettlement site includes a tubed
drinking water delivery system from the Sirindhorn reservoir, an electricity
supply system including public lighting of streets, a paved access road
connecting the new village to Highway 217 and the EGAT township, paved internal
service roads in the new village, school buildings to provide primary and
secondary education and a public health center. Affected families moving to the
new settlement area will have the choice of building their own house or being
provided a core house of two rooms to which they may add any additions they
wish, with materials meeting their own requirements, utilizing cash compensation
money paid for acquisition of existing land and structures.
7.             The costs of backfilling, agricultural land, irrigation delivery
system, infrastructure and so forth will be paid by EGAT and not by the affected
population. It is expected that cash compensation paid for acquisition of land,
houses and trees will be reinvented by the affected people in replacement
housing and economic production system improvements.
ParticiRation of the Affected PoRulation
8.             Affected households moving to the resettlement area will be
organized inta an Agricultural Cooperative.   EGAT will provide a building to
house the cooperative functions and a 5 million Baht Revolving Loan Fund to
enable the cooperative to provide credit to its members to support improvement
of their farming systems, input financing, market access and equipment purchase.
EGAT will also provide a budget for extension services over the initial years,
to be provided by the provincial Agricultural Extension Department already
active in the area, to assist affected households in learning to manage
irrigation agriculture. While capital costs of the irrigation system will be
paid by EGAT, the Agricultural Cooperative will be responsible for operation and
maintenance of the system, collection of water users fees to cover expenses and
so forth.
Institutional Arrangeet
9.             The government has established: (a) a Committee on Resettlement;
and (b) a Committee for Compensation of Land Rights and Properties. These two
comittees, each chaired by the Governor of the province, are responsible for
establishing policies for the resettlement and cash compensation for property
acquisition respectively. They are composed of a cross-section of cfficials in
executive branch departments of the government as well as the elected
representatives of the district governments pertaining to the affected areas.
EGAT serves in an ex-officio capacity on both committees. The EGAT resettlement
proposal including the policy provisions regarding cash compensation rates and
the replacement houseplots, farmlands and infrastructure outlined above have
been submitted for review and approval to the two committees.
10.           Once the Resettlement Plan is approved and published a public
information campaign will be carried out by EGAT with the objectives of (a)



- 84 -                       ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 10
informing affected people and (b) ascertaining the preferences of affected
people among the resettlement options provided under the plan. The campaign
results will be utilized to modify the plan as appropriate to accomodate the
preferences of affected families.
11.           EGAT will be responsible for execution of the resettlement plan,
including installation of all infrastructure in the new site, mobilization and
movement of the population and their belongings, maintenance of the population
during transition (particularly poorer households), and provision of economic
development assistance until such time as economic and social systems are re-
established at the new site. For this purpose EGAT is establishing a
Resettlement Office for Pak Hun headed by an experienced engineer who directed
the resettlement planning work.
12.           The Coinittee on Resettlement will monitor and supervise the Pak
Hun resettlement operation to be carried out by EGAT. The Comittee for
Compensation of Land Rights and Properties will oversee the payment of cash
compensation money to the affected households. Affected households will have
the right of appeal of grievances to these provincial government comittees
through their elected village headman (Puyiban).
13.           EGAT and Ubon Ratchathani Province will contract an independent
social science research institution to conduct annual evaluation studies of the
outcome of the resettlement operation. The annual reports will be reviewed and
discussed with the Bank, and any necessary modification of the resettlement
operation will be agreed with the Bank.
Cost Estimate
14.           The overall cost estimate is displayed in Table 2.



- 85 -                       ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 10
Iabl 2: RESETTLEMENT COST ESTIMAIE
Item                                       Million
Baht
1.    New Settlement
Survey and Planning                           2.4
Roads, Water Supply                           17.0
Public Buildings, Schools                     6.5
Housing                                      13.5
Irrigation                                   12. 
2.    Protection in Original Place
Road, Bridge Improvement                      19.0
Public Buildings                             11.0
Backfill, Retention Walls                    20.0
House Move, Improvement                      12.0
3.    Other
Transport, Hauling                            4.3
Agric. Coop. Building                         0.5
Revolving Loan Fund                            5.0
Extension Work                                 5.2
Evaluation Contract
Equipment                                     2.0
Maintenance                                  16.0
4.    Contingency                                   14.6
5.    Total                                        1590
II. Ecoloical AsDects
1.            For the Pak Mun project, which is a run-of-river project with FSL
at or lower than historic normal flood levels, there are two categories of
significant ecological impacts which need to be focussed on. These relate to a)
the preservation of the Kaeng Tana National Park; and b) a fisheries
development plan which increases the current fisheries yield, sets up a
fisheries conservation unit, and constructs a fish ladder to facilitate upstream
movement of migratory fish. These topics are discussed below.
Kaena Tana National Park
15.           The proposed dam site lies within the boundaries of the Kaeng Tana
National Park, about 1.5 km upstream from the Kaeng Tana Rapids. The site was
selected in order to preserve the Rapids, which currently are the most visited
tourist attraction within the National Park. The National Park Division of the



- 86 -                       Page 6 of 10
Royal Forestry Department assumed control of Kaeng Tan  Na.lonal Park in 1980.
The present park ls 80 km2 in extent and lLes on the southern bank of the Hun
River, extending westwards to the Mekong River. An area of some 25-30 km along
the northern side of the river (adjacent to Kaeng Tan Island) has been
identified for future park expansion but is presently occupied by *pproximately
300 families. A second area of about 20 km2 in extent lies who'1N Within the
Park's boundaries, and was apparently excluded from the Park be.c u"  of its use
by approximately 200 families. Two villages -- Ban Woen Buk and BIA Nakhan
r.ng, each with about 50 families -- are situated within the park on the south
bank of the Mun Rlver. There is a strong milltary presence ln the park and
surrounding areas because of the proximity of the Laotian border at the Mekong
River.
16.           The Park contains mainly dry Dlpt.rocarpus and mixed deciduous
forest. Patchy areas of fairly limited extent have been cultivated from time to
time, and illegal timber harvesting is reported to take place, but in general
the park's vegetative cover is in good condition and scenically very attractive.
Apart from the Tana and Kan Hue rapids in the Hun River, the Lam Dom Noi River
has a scenic waterfall and the border overlooking the Mekong River contains
spectacular cliff areas with old Buddha images of heritage value. Large
ungulates, including deer, and large predators, including tigers, were reported
to be present as recently as a decade ago, but have disappeared due to military
activities and poaching by local villagers. Small mammals, birds and
herpetofauna are reported to be abundant.
17.           The long-term management objective of the Park is development for
conservation and tourism, and it is already heavily used by tourists (105,000
people visited the Kaeng Tana Rapids in 1987). Park development and management
strategy provides for relocation of the people within the Park boundaries and
upgrading of the villages along the river.
18.           The construction planning for the proposed Project calls for the
development of a construction camp near Sirindhorn Dam (peak labour force
numbering about 600) and daily commuting of the construction force through the
Park to the dam site. Two large construction areas, totalling 140 ha in extent,
would be required adjacent to the dam site and would be in use during the 4-year
construction period. Locating the construction areas and the main construction
access route within the boundaries of a National Park would have some negative
impacts. It is expected that during the construction period, traffic noise and
blasting would affect tourist use of the park and its most scenic attractions.
While the Park would be disrupted during the construction period, long-term
effects would be mitigated through EGAT's plan to rehabilitate tha construction
site and access road after completion of the dam. The objectives of site
management and recl-mation would be to:
(a) maximize the containment of run-off and the products of
construction, particularly sediments and contaminants such
as oil, chemicals and construction wastes;
(b) reclaim all excavated and cleared areas, and stabilize and
reclaim all spoil areas as soon as possible to establish a
vegetative cover and minimize erosion; and



- 87 -                       ANNE  I13
Page 7 of 10
(c)   ainimize impacts to the site and the surruunding areas
vithin the National park by careful planning and site
control. Spoil sites which minimize impacts to
agriculturally productive land and existing settlements
would be selected.
19.            The Pak Nun Project, as presently designed, would be
environmentally acceptable when the proposed mitigation measures are fully
implemented. The decision to constrain the reservoir operating levels to within
historic flooding levels, reduces a large number of potential impacts to
negligible or manageable levels. The Kanagement Plan would address the concerns
for potential conflicts within the Kaeng Tana National Park, and specifically
would:
(a)   outline a series of steps to conserve the area, develop the
full tourist potential through provision of roads, guard
camps, tourist facilities and other infrastructure, provide
a visitor centre at the Pak Mun dam, and reduce impacts on
the Park from settlers within the Park as well as from
nearby villages;
(b)   provide a time-bound schedule for implementation of the
above steps; and
(c)   estimate the costs of Management Plan implementation.
Fisheries
20.            The Hun River is a large tributary of the Mekong River and
supports an abundant and diverse fishery. Some 150 species of fish occur in the
system, and the 1982 EIA reports more than 70 species collected during two brief
sampling periods in 1981. A large proportion of the species are known to occur
both above and below the Kaeng Tana rapids, the implication being that migration
between the Mun end the Mekong takes place. Fish are often observed moving tp
through the rapids, and spawning by some species in newly flooded riparian
grasslands is known to occur, but there appear to be no data on the extent of
such movements.   A worst case scenario would be one in which the Mun River
fishery is essentially dependent on seasonal migrations of fish from the Mekong
and/or where fish populations in the Mekong depend on spawning habitats above
the Mun River rapids. In this case, the dam would, at least initially, cause
major impacts to fish populations in both river systems. A minimal impact
scenario would be a case in vhich movements up and down through the rapids are
related to random feeding and are not strongly related to breeding cycles or to
annual flow patterns (for example, annual flooding). in this case, the
disruptive effect of the dam on populations would be much less. There may be
some intermediate level impacts where particular species are heavily affected
while others are not.
21.            There will be some impact to fish in the reservoir and in the
downstream reaches regardless of their migratory patterns. LArge numbers of
fish are likely to be flushed through the dam. If large fish are drawn into the
power intakes and are moved through the turbines, mortality rates are likely to
be high. Smaller fish may survive transit through the turbines or the mortality
rates may be low enough to be compensated by differential reproductive rates.



- 88 -                       A=  1l3
Page 8 of 10
The spillway is expected to be in operation for four months of the year (August
through October) and may discharge large numbers of fish to the downstream
reaches with negligible negative effects. To minimize damage done to the fish
population, EGAT plans to implement a fisheries development plan that calls for
(i) upstream development of fresh water fisheries to increase the current yield
by about 46X; (ii) setting up of a fisheries conservation unit, undertaking
necessary studies and investigations, promoting fishing activities and
monitoring the program; and (iii) study and construction of a fish ladder to
facilitate upstream movemen; of migratory fish. In addition, based on the
recommendations made by specialists from the World Bank during project review,
EGAT plans to: (i) conduct studies to establish a biological data-base on fish
migrations; (ii) evaluate alternatives to a fish ladder for fish population
maintenance; and (iii) review the final fich ladder design and monitor the fish
ladder's p3rformance.
III. Health Issue
22.           To safeguard against occurrence of public health problems due to
the project, the mitigation plan calls for the development of a strategy to
prevent, control and mitigate (and subsequently to monitor) not only endemic
diseases in the area but also possible diseases -- notably Schistosomiasis --
transmitted from other areas. The health issues have been reviewed in detail by
specialists from the World Bank and a list of agreed measures are outlined
below.
Measures to grevent the spreading of local endemic diseases
23.           Water-borne Darasite diseases.  Liver fluke infection
(Opisthorchiasis viverrini) is the highest prevalent: parasitic disease in the
northeast of Thailand; the last survey, made in 1981, revealed the prevalence
rate as high as 501. A control program using annual treatment of egg positive
cases was implemented recently in Ubol Ratchathani and other provinces in
northeast Thailand and may reduce the population. Although it is unlikely that
the Pak Hun Project would increase the prevalence of liver fluke infection, it
has been agreed that the preimpoundment prevalence rate will be verified so that
it can be used as evidence against possible complaints of the impact of the
project on the health status of the peorle. As a goodwill measure for the
project, the population to be resettled because of flooding will be examined and
treated free of charge. (At present, under thn self-reliance policy of the
liver fluke control project, people have to pav for stool examination and
treatment at a very nominal charge). Health education aimed at changing food
and defecation habits would also be given regularly. To avoid interfering with
the government's self-reliance policy in control of liver fluke infection in the
region, the health status survey would be done by using statistical sample
design techniques in the population of the 13 flood affected villages. The
stool survey would use a sensitive technique (such as formalin-ether
concentration technique or merthiolate iodine concentrAtion technique) that
could also detect cases of schistosomiasis.



- 89 -                       ANNEX2 13
Page 9 of 10
24.           MAlaria and oth    osguito-borne diseases.  The Pak Mun project
should not nave a direct impact on malaria or other mosquito-borne diseases. At
present, because of the active control program of the Ministry of Public Health,
these diseases are not a health problem in the population of Pak Murn project
area. However, imported cases may be found from time to time, coming
particularly from Laos. Should that be tha case, measures for early detection -
- such as blood examination and treatmont of feverish laborers -- would be
planned and implemented, especially during the construction phase. In addition,
warnings regarding malaria probleos and protective measures would be given to
the labor force. For information on other mosquito-borne diseases, data from
the report of the Epidemiology Division of the Ministry of Public Health would
be consulted. Should there be an outbreak, Ministry of Public Health measures
recommended to reduce the transmission -- such as control of mosquito population
of larvicide by insecticide -- would be used. Data on mosquito fauna and biting
habits is readily available from the Malaria Division of the DepaLtuent of
Communicable Diseases Control. Since there will be a land development program
to resettle the flood affected people, only a reconnaissance survey on mosquito
vectors in the proposed resettlement area would be made prior to the habitation
of the people.
25.           Other garasitic diseases.  The other parasitic infections that may
be found in the project area are not major public health problems. Intestinal
fluke infections such as Echinostomiasis are not uncommon but treatment would be
given at least among the flood affected population.
Prevention of new diseases from coming into the area
26.           Schistosomiasis.  Because the habitat of Tricula &xerta, snail
intermediate host of Schistosooa mekongi, is in the Mun River and the endemic
area is in southern Laos, the Mun river can be considered as an area vulnerable
for transmission of Schistosomiasig mekong. The measures that would be taken
regarding schistosomasis are:
(a)   A schistosomiasis survey would be included in the health
status survey and would be conducted prior to the dam
construction. Specific and sensitive techniques such as
circun oval precipitin test and rectal biopsy would be
employed to verify the active cases.
(b)   Investigation of schistosomiasis in domestic animals and
wild rodents would be conducted in the flooded and resettle-
ment areas.
(c)   If the labour force comes from Laos, they and their families
would have stool examinations for schistosomiasis before
recruitment.
(d)   The status of schistosomiasis would be regularly monitored.
The monitoring system would include case and snail surveys
every 3-5 years. In the meantime, the health personnel in
the project area would be made aware of the schistosomiasis
problem so that they could report any occurrence of the
disease.



_ 90 _                       ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 10
27.            Since the hforuation on  LZau.ar  pras=  is well established, it
is not necessary to do a new survey except in the streams of the proposed
resettlement area. If Tricula snails are found in these streams, an
investigation on the capability of Tricular snails to use a reservoir
onvironment as their habitat would be carried out as early as possible,
potentially in the Sirindhorn Dam reservoir. A schistosomiasis and snail survey
would be made among the population and the area in the vicinity of this man-made
lake. If a Tricular population does not exist in the area, the study on the
survivability of the implanted Tricular snail in a small and exclusive portion
of the reservoir would be made. This information is important not only for the
Pak Mun project but also for other water resources development projects in the
aortheast of Thailand as well as in the riparian countrins of the Mekong river.
28.            Other communicable diseases.  Measures to prevent and cortrol
other nonparasitic conmunicable diseases such as diarrhoea, dysentery, typhoid,
and diptheria would be strengthened, particularly among the flood affected
population. These measures include vaccination, improvement of personal hygiene,
environmental sanitation and health education and would be implemented
continuously.
29.            Sexually-transmitted diseases (STD) are not uncommon and the
chance of their becoming a health problem is possible, especially among the
laborers who come to construct the dam. During this phase, the population of
laborers could be as high as 3,000 people. Measures for diagnosis and treatment
of STD would be established. Health education on EID, especially on the
prevention of AIDS, would also be provided for this community.
30.           Waste water from the city of Ubol and Pibulmangsaharn District.
Since the city of Ubol and Pibulmangsaharn District are highly populated and the
waste water, at present, is drained into the Nun river and the reservoir,
measures to cope with this problem would be established. The situatioi would be
carefully planned with the awareness of the rapid increase of population after
the impoundment. A monitoring system for waste water from the city of Ubol and
Pibulmangsaharn District would also be established and incorporated with the
plan of waste treatment.
31.           Health education.  A health education program would be designed
and emphasized to correct the specific risk behaviors -- such as eating and
defecation habits of the population -- that relate to water-borne parasitic
diseases.



- 91  -                                        AEMMM14
Pap 1 of 2
T AILAND
!"THI    OER YSTEN DEELOPMET PkOWECT
Electricity Banarad1no Author1tv of Tho110nd
ynetmnt Proarm. FY91-92
(in *ill0in bdht)
FY91                                     FY92
Local        Fore gn       Total         Local         FOr*ign       Total
ThrmtN_   PL nts
S. Pokong CC U3                                290          466           754             0             0             0
. Pokong CC 09                                 307          627           934             0             0             0
G. Pokong Th. 93                               7C3        1,595         2,296         1,086           326         1,412
G. Pokong Th. 04                               745        1,561         2,306           911         1,687         2,598
Khno  CC 01                                      4           37            41             9           282           291
Khono  CC 92                                     9            0             9            21           354           375
Laq2eng Th 91                                   0             0             0           159            64           223
mm moh  9                                       59          519           578             0             0             0
M"a  "oh 910                                   339          978         1,317             1           260           261
"ae  oh Ol11                                   320        1,430         1,750           167           479           666
M"  och 912                                    177            24          201           667           806         1,253
NM  Mh 913                                       0            19           19            94             6           100
mm Phong CC 91                                 556        1,486         2,042           318           174           492
NM  Phong CC 92                                 23          214           237           401         2,030         2,431
Royong CC 91                                   342          802         1,144             0             0             0
Imyong CC 02                                   577          610         1,187             0             0             0
Rayong CC n3                                   S0           967         1,567             0           103           103
Royao  CC 04                                    35          222           257           217          1405         1,622
South Bnakok CC #I                              25          226           251           190         1,368         1,558
Wng Maio GT 01-4                                 0            0             0            16             0            16
Ao Phoi 91                                     599            10          609           467         1,236         1,703
Ao Phbaf2                                        0            0             0           475             9           484
SUbtot2L                               IAN9         11.811        17.S01         LAU4         12.662       lB.109
Hydra PLents
IhuIibol a3                                     68            14           62           106            63           169
1hu lbol Rnov.                                  30          312           342             0           173           173
KIon KruM H1-2                                 206           55           263           273           462           735
L_ Takhong 0-4                                  0             0             0            73            26            99
Pak Mmi 01-4                                   199          160           359            68           636           702
sTrikit 94                                     49             6            55             2           129           131
6rinharind #5                                   90          142           232             0             0             0
sttotal                                  jZi           6J             1X2                       .U             0
Irin-160n
Accel. Tron_m. Project                         370        1,699         2,269           466           283           747
Khonk    3-PolEt                                S8           66           124             0             0             0
Eli  for H*  Mll  H10                         S          1,142         1,708           384           903         1,287
ENV or MIbMh H1                                 20           196          216            12            40            52
PSI                                            139          255           394           624         1,196         1,820
Trns. Expn. 7 Part A                           45           186           231             0             0             0
Tran. Expn. 7 Port 8                            17           1n           189            26            N             84
Tha Tako-Khonkson 3                            141          151           292            65             0            65
Tran. Expn. 8                                 391             0           391           799           587         1,386
Tran. Expn. 9                                    0            0             0            68             0            68
Subtotal                                1Jm          L4W            Li            LA6 LU        35



- 92 -
ANEX 1
Pag 2 of 2
FY91                                  FY92
Local       Forelign     Total        Locat        Foreign      Total
Linito N1ning
a" Ibh Exp.-9 (stag  1)                    496          290          766            0            0            0
Na  Exolp.U-9 (stage2)                      162          27          1699                      430          525
Noh Exp.10-11                               63            0           63        1,555            0        1.555
"ttat                                 213T1                                   N           U            ]
Tr_mmaaion                                 632            0          632          501            0          5so
Powr Plant                                1,217           0        1,217          757            0          757
Sitotat                              1&2              2        1            Lai              2        1.261
Dutles  d Taxes                          3.199            0        3,199        2,418            0        2 416
Total go" Coat                          13830        168          30716        IL3 .4   17L65            311405
Physicat                                   763        1,006        1,771        1128         1,528        2,656
Price                                       172          77          249          618          634        1,252
Totat Project Cost                       14.765      L7.97`1       2.          15L.U6       19.827       35L313



- 93 -
ANNEX 15
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD               Estimated disbursement           Dibursement Profile
Fiscal Year          Annual         Cumulative   Project        Country standard
-----(US$ million)-----   ------------(Z)--------------
1992                    8.0            8.0           15                  1
1993                   24.0           32.0           60                  6
1994                   17.0           49.0           92                 22
1995                    5.0           54.0          100                 52
1996                    _              _              _                 74
1997                    -              -                                90
1998                    _              _              _                .00



- 94 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
THAILANO
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGAT'S Post Finauicifl Performance
Finaneal Staiments 1984-89, Income Statement
(Baht mfl1con)
1984     198s     1986     1987     1988      1989
Energy Sales (CMM)                       19,333   21,196   22,553   25,773   29,494   33,701
Inrerase CX)                               10.1      9.6      6.4     14.3      14.4     14.3
Average price C8/kWh)                      1.37     1.36     1.33      1.30     1.26     1.26
Operatfng Revenue
Sales of electricity                   26,379   28,803   30,064   33,S46   37.124   42,114
Other revenu                               54       99       56       170      350      535
Total                                26,433   28,902   30,120   33,716   37,474   42,649
, ........ ......... .........   ...... ..........   ...... ..........   ......
Operating Expenses
Fuel/bulk power                        15,265   15,887   14,463   14,302   17,510   19,S4
Operatfons                              3,411    3,697    4,004    4,724    4,738    5,545
Depreciation /a                         2,683    3,262    3,874    4,096    4,461    4,862
Remittance to Government                  532      470      600       960    1,061    1,564
Total Operat1ng Expenses             21,891   23,316   22,941   24,082   27,770   31,515
......   ...... .. ......  ...... . .. ......  ------........... ... ...... .
Operating Income                      4,542    5,586    7,179    9,634    9,704   11,134
.  ............ ........  ...... .........   ...... .........   ......
Nonoperating Expenses
Interest charged to operations          2,017    3,203    3,828    4,205    4,621    4,321
Foreign exchange loss          *          102    1,289    2,821    1,786    1,942    1,677
Previous years' adjustments              -774
ining incom  (-)                         -176     .608     -548       553     -751     -928
Total Monoperating Expenses (Net)    1,169    3,884    6,101    5,438    5,812    5,070
...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
Net Income                            3,373    1,702    1,078    4,196    3,892    6,064
Susan=   uuauun  SUuuuu   Suan&U  maEmma    asumeU
Rate base                                56,788   70,178   79,950   86,S44   90,082   95,536
Rate of return CX)                          S.0      8.0      9.0      11.1     10.8      11.7
Operating Ratio  X)                          83       81        76       71       74        74
/a On revalued assets.



- 95 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECAT'S PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
FinanciaL Statements 1984-89, Sources and Applicatfon of Funds
(BaNt millfon)
1984     1985     1986      1987     1988     1989
SOURCES OF FUNDS
InternaL Cash Genoration
Operatfng income                  4,542    5,586    7,179    9,634    9.704   11,134
Other incom                         u4       -681   -2,273   -1m233       751      749
Depreciation                      2,683    3,262    3,874    4,096    4,461    4,862
Other it.ms not invoLtving cash     657       737    3,428    1,307      -.81      826
TotaL                           8,730    6,905   12,208   13,804   14,435   17,571
......   ...... .. ......  ...... .... ......  ............................... ...
Loss increaso/add decrease In
working capital                       422       503   -1,951   -1,716       573   -2,350
Net Internal Cash Generation      9,152    9,408   10,257   12,088   15,010   15,221
, ........ ..... ............   ...... .........   ...... .........   ......
Borrowing                              8,002   10,034    6,29      2,322    5,321    8,024
Less:  Reffnancing                 -3,822   -5,712      -859         -   -1,554   -1,543
Net Borrowing                     4,180    4,322    5,433    2,322    3,767    6,481
......   ...... .. ......   ...... ... ......  .................. ......... ...
Government equity                        992      335      440       161      114       195
Proceeds of disposaL of assets            52      226      304       947      224      675
Unpaid bonuses and government
remittances                           340      -191      287      443        35
Repayment of bank overdraft                                   -            -
Increase (-)/decrease in deferred
interest                               19       257      95        92        89        -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS           14,735   14,357   16,816   16,053   19,239   22,572
......   ...... .. ......   ...... ... ...-. ... .... ...... ..........e...
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CapitaL expenditure-power           8,823    6,831    7,222    5,261    7,201   11,094
Interest during construction        1,472       665      676      702       487      711
TotaL Capital Expendlture-Power 10,295    7,696    7,898    5,963    7,688   11,805
......   ...... .. ......  ...... ... ......  ............. ..... ......... . .. 
Irrigatlon, mine and devotopment
capitaL expenditure                 689    1,285    1,525    1,446    1,236    1,032
Dcbt Sorvice
PrincipaL                         5,556    7,885    4,424    4,439    7,248    6,957
Loss: Refinancing                -3,822   -5,712      -859         -   -1,554   -1,543
Interest charged to operations   2,017    3,203    3,828    4,205    4,621    4,321
TotaL Debt Service                3,751    5,376    7,393    8,644   10,315    9,73I5
......   ...... .. ......   ...... ... ......  ............. ..... ............
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS        14,735   14,357   16,816   16,053   19,239   22,572
......   ...... .. ......   ...... ... ......  ........ .................. ...
Debt service coverage - times            2.4      1.8       1.4      1.4       1.5      1.6
Self-financing ratio /a (X)               47       41       33        38        44      33
/a  Internal cash gneration Less debt servieo exprssed as a percentage of three years,
average capftaL expwnditure on power, irrigation, minI and developm nt.



- 96 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
TNAILANO
TNIRO POWER SYSTEM OEVELOPHENT PROJECT
EGAT'S PAST FINANCIAL PERFORNKMNCR
FinanciL Statements 1984-89, Balanc  Sheet
(Uaht miLtLon)
......................................................
1984    1985    1986    1987    1MS;S    1989
ASSETS
Ffixd Assets Power
Plant in servico (revatued)      89,121   107,378  118,248  131,268  136,S70  150,410
Less: Oepreciatfon               25,848   30,295   35,431   40,996  46,679   54,313
Not                              63,273    77,W03  82,817  90,272  89,891   96,097
Work In progress                 17,181    11,269   12,033   6,79   11,882   20,412
Totat fixed Assets   Power     80,434    8,352   94,850   97,051  101,M   116,509
Irrigation, mine & devtop -nt
assets                          9,324    10,352   11,108   11,464   11,872   11 S33
Total fliad Assets             89,778    98,704  1,06  8  108,515  113,64S  128,042
Insurance fund & mine reclamation  1,398    1,837   2,057   3,883    5,402    6,717
Current Assets
Cash                              809       974      485    2,020    2,389    5,436
InventorieS                     2, OM     1,734   2,051    2,308    2,356    2,657
Receivabtes                     4,999    5,375   6,297   6,988   7,346    7,467
Totat                           7,852     8,083    8,833   11,316   12,091   15,580
Deferred foreign e*xchan
adjustment                     *1,364    6,524   14,573   14,964  14,077   11,715
TOTAL ASSETS                   97,664   115,148  131,421  138,678  145,215  162,054
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Paid-In capital                 7,420    7,501    7,848    7,980   8,061    8,536
Government contrlbutfon for
dams                          4,774     4,965    4,985    4,945    4,905    4,552
Retained earnings               12,514    13,830   15,187  19,293   23,185   30,400
Revaluation reserve            22,873    25,158   27,S64   29,301   31,578   34,516
Totat Equity                   47,581    51,454  55,584  61,519  67,729   83,004
Insurance reserve & mine recla-
mation                           1,398    1,837   2,057   2,383    2,666    2,937
Long-term debt-net               39,341    51,052  63,382   63,120   61,903   62,141
Sank overdraft
Current Liabilities
Payebles                        4,717    5,314   4,325    5,023   5,874   6,911
Current maturitfes              2,622    3,606   4,495    5,078   5,531    5,656
Accrued interest                 1,142    1,279    1,067    1,136    1,182    1,159
Total                           8,481    10,199   9,887   11,237   12,587   13,726
Oeferred intfrest 4  thier Liabil-
itWes                             863       606      511      419     330      247
TOTAL EQUITY ANO LIABILtItES   97,664   115,148  131,421  138,678  145,215  162,054
Oebt as X of debt and  quity         45        S0       53       51       S0      43
Current ratio                       0.9       0.8      0.9      1.0      1.0    1.1



97 -
ANNEX 17
Page I of 6
TMt I LAND
TH1IR0 POi  SYSYTE  CVFUVlPtT PlO)JtCT
t ATe PFinancial projectieos
Ine1     statem.t
(hhkt millien)
Forost
.________*...............................______.............. _._....... _________________________._._._ ___ ...
Years Ending Septer*e  Jo                                       1391 192                  1O 1993       It4          1925         it"          1597
Energy 51aes (Wh)                                 3936         44102        SO520        SS2W4        60290         SS8         70475        75e24
Sales Inc"ase (%)                                   16. 1        17.1%       9g.8         95.2S.         9.0          3.3%          0S.         7.3%
Average Ener3y Price (S/kWI)                        1.25        1. "         1.3         1.41          1.57         1.39         1369         1.95
Price Increase (S)                                  0.0%        11.2%         0.0%          1.4S        11.3%       20.1%          0.0%        0. 0%
Operati"n Revenue
Energy Revenue                                  49192        54W          7036         77945        54455       123050       132845       142551
Other Operating Revenue                           11S          744         750          O50           770          780          790         800
.___..._ _____. .____.___._ ___.________. _..........  -- ----    ------    ------    ------_.---- -----
Total Operating Revenue                      50380        082:2        /1112        76721        95425       1238        133435       143351
Operat g Expensee
Fuel and Purchased Power                        24473        33820        35001        42471        51Sl1        37154        64727        66834
Operation & Maintenance                          614S         7324         6794          UU          105"         12167        13839        16285
Depreciation                                     5572         S442         7243         3749        10360        12233        14217        16178
Remittance  to Government                       170          1950         2171         20a          2610         3707         4636         4503
..- -- -  ______--______-______   ..........  ---------_  ----------    .............. ---------- .......--__---_-__--___ 
Total Operating Expeses                      38003        490905        4009        62737        75082        95302        97418       10#100
Operating Income                             12317        11727        17103        155"         20344        28534        36217        37551
Non-Operating Expenaes
Interest Charged to Operationa (Net)             4541         5076  Sff4                73#9         940         12915        16447        20113
Lose en Exchange                                 17"          2455         2313         125s         1147          U54          674          264
Mining Income                                    -1533        -59U         .945        -1339         -145U       -1404         -1206        -1867
____ ..............  ................ ........... ......................  _ ............ ............ ........... _.___.......... ___      
Total Non-Operating Expensee                       47U          6543         726          72n          9297         12475        15935        18510
Mat Income                                    7523         3103        9507                      11047        11062        202U2        19041
_ . _ ..... _ ........ .. ......... ........ . ........ ._......       ......
Average Rate Base -  ew"r                         ns500        111912      138504       170375       207157       247370       291601        334345
Rate of Return (%)                                  12.4%       14.1%        12.5%         9.4%         9.3%         11.5S        12.4%        11.2%
Operating Ratio (S)                                   73%          76%          76% S0%                   75%          77%          73%          74%



- 98
TMItLA04D                                                     A164X 17
T14iD OpSE  SYSY04D OVILOPHMT PSJEcT                                         Page 2 of S
64?.' Finanelal ProJ.oto.eo
P,,ido Flow Itatomet
(kilt milion..)
Peroeatt
Vears EMng m   Septaver 30                           139      10 1n             150           It".        1it4           1i06         it"           1997
Sew,... ........
Internal Sources
Operating Income                               12317        15170         17103        IBM6          M144         3063          36217        37551
Add:
Oepre.atien                                   0472         604          1341          6748         1036         law          14*17         16171
mining Incomne                                1531                        MIS         1330          1460         1404          1204         1247
Total Internal Sources                       13412        113          3133          31016        31163         42174        61640         5859
"encash Itemm-Nininge                            .1460          1130          364          -341          .11         -303          -Si.          474
Assots Disopsal
Gov't. Contri-bution -Power
Gov't. Contribution . Irrigation
Incroaes  In, Long-Tore Debt                   26.          2046?        27068         3630         44416         36627        44080         44965
Further Borrowing                                  0            0             0            0             0            0             0            0
Total Borrowings                                 2066         29457         1706         36103         44410        33627         44050        48965
Otlor Items (Not)                                    0             0            0             0            0             0            0             0
Total Souroes of Funds                       365102       83263        5*117         64803        1686          60763         35174       105035
Application Of P.ends
capitol inveetmont
Capital Exipondituros-Power                    28665        34472        30444.        31481        355           35046        35932         37155
Interest During Construction                   1i50          213          3100          3986          4615         5216          4137         4201
Total Capitol Invootuent-Powor              27115         36436        31640         41013        44731         40268        40065         41356
Capital Exponditurosa-Mining                    1619         1328          1500         1444          1600         2072           256         3177
Total Capital Invatinont                    26754         37064        35358         48463        46440         42336        40327         44533
Debt Service
Intereot                                        4541         5076        1g66           7360         0660         12065        16447         20113
Principal                                       5720         32624        6025          9114         11614        17639         igsi.        24473
Total Debt Service                           10261        13700        14603         16465        81482         30684        35063         44584
Decrease In Daeerd Liebilities                          90           61           10             0             a            0             0            a
In4oraso In  eNO-cask Working Capital            151          42?         -348          .641          .144          643           363         5917
Inoreaae In Cash                                .480         1103         3706          1001         10690         6331         15495        16833
Increase In Total Working Capital                 -123         1630         2632          5345         10512        '601l         15643        15916
Total Applicetion of Funds                   361102       53261        58711         64813        7456          60763        95174        105035
Debt Service Coverage                                  1.5          1.6          1.1           1.6           1.5          1.3           1.4          1.3
3 Years Average Inwestment                          26175         340it6       3650         41484         43610        43032         4239w        43131
goIf-Financing Ratio (3 Yre. Ave.)()                    340.         251          34%           351          35?           250.         360.          2



-   99   -                                                 =61-1 I1
T56t60 Poi0 51S1OO 06WVI.0PAT P40.1gC?
6841's PleeSeitIl P,OoOetlccs
Peiagecito
Yea,. IrAiog Sooto.br 30                             10610         1901         it"1         1003          19114        100"          It"          lot?
Assets
..PlacEd A140e46.ft60r
plant lot lOgviC.                             16ow"        lo0m        133361        huN?          333626       3103312       461464       610031
LaOW  40oMMI&tod 0--w.,ieit,c                 6367          11113        01147        63674      .107376        163401        543016       164041
Nost o.....ti g  Plahs                      .3303        Isom2        :683?        166444        team6        3430          313718       354463
Work IN PI"eg6%c                                 34106        68007         6648         4144         60346         61106        64310         65301
.T.te piled Assets Pomp.                   13,101        1,31117      afll?        349633         min0        3364g4        377041       48 340)
PlatE Aosets-l"tW sooie                           4836         6713         4704         6446          as4"          4466         436           4304
4,,., 411.. Assets                              611          60M          7614          VW6         1610          14371        III?7         16333
Leasso A.e.lted Deporeailtieo                   3446         6736         6664          3687         404          46            63713        6166
16et Mii., Assets4                            2046         366          461          6366         OM            0723         11744        13144
Work in Peg....                                   1630         3313         S40           2630         3766          3161         1605          3332
Total Pliced ASS6etc.uilvv                   4304         6606         7416         am           10617        18034         13244        16475
0ov.l.orn.i  ElPeOEit4l                           4154         3684         3140         3s3n          3360          4317         44643         4.106
Total Piled Assets .  .ici./4.s                  136093       53000        16310         66046        16764        21720         22476        21551
Sinking P..d                                      3263         3700         416           4061         6773          "as6          7113         6053
Ccligsl Aset.t
Cash.                                          13674        14671        17776        33766         3444         41403         5660         76131
6.a.ivabl.s                                     SW6         10664        11606         18041        5666         10361         3167         23565
Inv.entories                                   241s          4516         363           4445         on00         4463          6417         6827
Total Carraoel Asset*                       $6676         20751        33366        41160         6686         66424         602el       101M
OaePs.9.  Lose on gxehasga                       10634         6170         666           4361         3460          25s"         162           1416
total Assets                               10064         220468       246716       351166        376487       433630       406264        503227
equity OAn L.Ialilitic.
Pcid.in Capital                                 6034         6436         663          6834          6ai4         6436          6536         6536
1rrvlgtlcc Coslrilt.tie.                        4636         4773         4704         44            44           446"          4306         4308
t.laIuicE (cra"sg                              34773        46666        66763        64646         7646         6164"        111642       1308803
mo.etcatiee surplus                            43764        0106        67444        67041         76276        01660        107221       124514
Total Iqoity                               63087        509004       126447       144443        16484"       196644       2310"3        264266
WWI-.TOM Debt
Lo.g-Teo. Dbt                                 63646        104641       5979 11016  1573          146663?      20446         232066       267461
Lacsi Cu.ront Sbtvritl.c                        4684         668          051          11614        11630        19614         24473        27266
LengTerm Dea  (Net)                        76066        06411        513663       14006        16666         56406        204,64        230165
Fannier serreal"Ve                                   a            0             0            0             0            a             0            0
SinkiNg Pt46I                                     32843        3700         466           4061         6773          6415         1113          4003
Warrefd Liclilitioo                                Is?            70            0            a             0            a             0a
Cc.ve.t Liabilities
Asaoovats P.Yabl*                               1046        10301         15149        166106       5668          16640        16641        21260o
Cc..,st Matciitioo                              6634         66is         0il116    114             17630         15410        64413         V7264
AssPeved lnteot onlc  6ong Tartp Dlobt          566          1766         124n           017         3731          4164         6646          7515
.....         ....         ....          ....    ..... ..... ..... .....
T`041 ClAffoo  Liabilities                 51414         0502         21303        27601         366          441SO        60103         65441
.....         ....         ....          ....         ....          ....         ....          ....
Total 6qsIlti and Li.Silltl..             590064,1      Mas46        644110       317166        376427       436636        404264       563221
Do"t as a %.o  Total Capital                            47%          40%          462           61%          635.          an0          6.            46%
Long.?... 0eb4 464 a     of Total C.pitial             44%           46%          41%           46%         601           462           41%          46%
Cn've"t Bali.                                          545%         5486         1462          16%          560m         1ots          5,4%         166%



- 100 -
Page 4 of 6
THAIIAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DFVELOrMENT PROJECT
EGAT's Financial Projections
Revenues
1.        The average price of electricity is about B 1.25 per kWh cold in
1990. A price increase of about 11 will be necessary in 1991 to maintain
EGAT's 25X self-financing ratio in that year. Price increases averaging about
51 per year between FY92 and FY97 will be required in order to keep the self-
financing ratio at 251. EGAT's average electricity price annual increases,
and self-financing ratios for FY90 through FY97 are shnwn below:
FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Average energy
price (B/kWh)      1.25   1.39   1.39   1.41   1.57   1.89   1.89   1.89
Price increase          -  11.21       -   1.41  11.3%  20.11         -      -
Self-financing
rctio               34X    251    281    25X    25X    25%    361    281
2.        Energy sales will grow at 171 per year through 1991,    per year
between 1992 and 1994, and 81 thereafter, based on projections made by the
Load Forecasting Working Group. These projections are bssically
extrapolations of recent trends checked against econometric models involving
assumptions on the growth of the gross domestic product.
Fuel Costs
3.        The fuel mix is based on EGAT's least cost generation plan.  Finan-
cial prices for these fuels are inclusive of taxes and royalties which amount
to 251 for fuel oil, B 15/ton for lignite, and 10.3X for natural gas. The
resulting price profiles are as follows:
(a)  Fuel oil and diesel prices escalate from 1990 prices of B 2.89 and B
5.97 per liter, respectively, to B 3.55 per liter and B 8.13 per
liter in 1991, and to B 5.24 per liter and B 12.01 per liter in
1997.
(b)  Lignite prices are based on the current ,AT transfer price of
B 462/ton and are assumed to escalate at approximately 4% per year
over the study period.



- 101 -                 AEY, 17
Page 5 of 6
(c) Natuiral gas prices escalate rrom the current B 7O/MMKtu average
price at approximately 6X per year.
0perating Costs
4.        Generation expenses are based on current EGAT experience, with
projections for future plants based on historical costs for similar plants and
escalated with inflation rates of 41 per annum.
5.        Power purchased from Laos is prices at B 0.7930/kWh and from
Malaysia at 1.20 kWh throughout the projection period.
6.        Transmission expenses are projected on the basis of unit costs and
additions In line length and transformer capacity in EGAT's expansion program.
Other operation and maintenance expensb3, including General and Administrative
expenses, are based on current levels, inflated at 41 per annum.
7.        Depreciation is based on the straight-line method on revalued fixed
assets. The average rate of depreciation is 1.331 for hydropower plants, 41
for other generating facilities, 2.51 for transmission lines and 41 fcr
substations.
8.        The rate of remittance to the Governmert of Thailand is assumed to
be 151, which was agreed between EGAT and the Government for the Sixth Five-
Year Development Plan period, thr'ugh 1990 and is expected to continue through
out the projection period. This Ls to date the highest S.ax rate levied by the
Ministry of Finance on EGAT's not income (based ot, unrevalued depreciation).
Capital Investment
9.        Construction costs are those estimated to provide the additional
plant and equipment required to meet the demand forecast, escalated in
accordance with the latest projection of inflation rates. The expenditure
schedule is included in the project file.
10.       Equity contributions represent the Government of Thailand's
reimbursement for import duties on construction equipment and partial payment
with respect to the irrigation portion of multipurpose dams.
Foreign _xchange Iosses
11.       Deferred foreign exchange losses represent the profits and losses
from exchange rate variations on long-term debt. The projected figures are
the amount on EGAT's accounts at the end of FY89 less the incremental amounts
which are scheduled to be written off over the remaining ?eriod of EGAT's
existing loans. The amounts shown in the income statement and balance sheet
refl -ct currency movements against the Baht through December 31, 1989.



- 102 -                      ANNEXL 17
Page 6 of 6
orrowiinu
12.       Future foreign loans have been assumed at annual interest rates
varying from 3 to 9X and for terms of up to 20 years incluc ng from 3 to 5
years of grace. Local borrowings have been assumed at the annual interest
rate of 11, and for tt.ms of up to 13 years, including 3 years of grace.
13.       Acconts receivable are projected to be approximately 2 months of
revenues in accordance with a government regulation affecting State
Enterprises.



- 103 -
ANCX 1
Page 1 of 3
THAILAN
TINW  POW11 SYSTi O6VELOUEN? PRYJCCT
Power subseeter Fi mnania aftPrjetiome
Incoea Stolemot
(4ht m illion)
YVers E"ding  Sept_er 30                           1910         1991        13           1993         194         lo"          16           1997
Energy Sales (h)                                  36U8        4230         47147        51811      el4 ow11o                  64012        70620
Sales Increase (i)                                 17.3%       is. 3        10.0%         9.9%         9.0%        *.3%         7. 9         7.3%
Average Tariff (I/wh)                              1."          1.77        1.67         2.00         2.21        2.66         2.65         2.65
Propesed Tariff Increase CIL)                       0.2%        5.3%         5.3%         7.1%        10.7%       30.0%         0.0%         0.0%
Operating Revenue
energy, Revenue                                694          75684        27914       103W4       125016       12377        175213       14716
Other Operoting Revonue                          229          1916        lo"          134          II          11o4         1919         1971
Total Operating Revenue                     64266        77300        693        105410       123647       164241       177132       199139
Operating Expenscs
Fuel and Purchased Power                       24517        33670        3454         4258        S17t        67256        64795        08907
Operation & Maintenance                         12110        14541       16976        lo4         20904        23670        26644        30512
Oeprciation                                      e54s        3374        11370        13771        16359       1204         22154        21063
lomittance to Goverr_ent                        243          2430         3660         5540        6401        1198S        14061        14223
Total Operating Expenses                    47725        60215        67850       00496        37231       131090       127674       138705
Operati"g Income                            16544        17S65        21993       24914        29630        4214.3       494SU        51234
Non-Operating Cxpeasos
Interest Charged to Operations                  6109         7324         6710        10442       13413        17309        21191        25953
Other No"-Operat1ng expenase  (Net)               264         1515        12            148         -142        -3U4         -405        -1492
Total Mon-Operating Expenses                 6393         Ue9         1029         10610       13271        16953        20786        24441
Net Income                                   01ISI       8527        I11O0         14304       16359       23110         21472        26773
Average Rate 54s0                                134223      149799       176771       211418      24U40         32"9        333202       375949
Rato of Return (%)                                 12.3%        11.7%       12.4%        11.%        11.5%       14.6%        14.5%        13.5%
Operating Ratio                                      74%          77%         73%          73%          77%         74%          72%          73%



- 104 -
ANNX 15
THVAILAND                                                     Pag* 2 of 3
Th165D 11 ISYSTCE 0CVELO964T POjECT
Per Suteboctor fineangil PJreetiens
Funds Flow Statnmt
r"^6 Mllion)t_
Feregcast
.. ..... ....... ..... ..... ........................ ................................................ .. ..  ......  
Years  Endlng Sept_ er 30                           1990        1911         192          1913         1o"4         1991         19"          1997
Sources of Funds
Internal Sources
Operating Zcome                              144          176          21l"2        24914        2"30         41143        4941         11234
Add:
Oeprecstion                                 640          9374        11370        13776        11319        19204        22154        21043
Mining Ineme and M-.o. leveaves             1974         1413         1143         1451        1i6           1542         1355         1467
Noencash ItamaNining                       -1406         1130          3S4          -92          -S7         -936         -S16          474
e_. ..._ .__. ........._ ......... ............   ...........   -----    I...... ._. ___...... _ ._.....   .__..... __... _______
Total Internal Sources                     2S650        In502        3492         4002         47517        119S1        72451        75e36
Equity Contributions                             62n         1292          300          300          300            0            0            0
Borrowings                                     23502        43090        41643        51374        58136        49776        52430        67574
Grants and Custoer Contributions                ISS1          9S3          6U3          854          a"4          6"4            5          6S
Aasets Oisposal/Unpaid Sonuses,Rhmitta          1455         -445          753          254         -245          731          -4            92
Other Ites (Not)                                                 0            0           0            0            0            0            0
._.._____.   --------     .. .. ..    .. . . .     .. .. ..     .. .. ..      ---------__ __  _   _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _  .........
Total Sources of Fwnds                     53000        74192        76641        9202        106542       113313       126547       147159
Application of Funds
Capital Investmnt
Capital Expenditures                         36603        5779         11743        57241        51U7         52697        50639        58719
Interest Ouring Construction                  15e0         2118         3109         3598         4675         5216         4137         4201
._______.____________________ __._._._._.    ........    .... .....   ------    ----- .....   -----_----
Total Capital Investment                   40153        54S45        546U 6e9                 6254          57915        54775        62920
Oebt Service
Interest                                      610S         7324         6710        104S1        13413        17309        21191        25953
Principal                                     73"         10326        12397        13S24        16302        24116        2465e        30550
Total Debt Service                         13506        17710        21597       2406         29715         41427        45856        56503
Oscreese in Daferred Liabilities                  90           67           70            0            0            0            0            0
Increase in Nn-cash Working Capital           -424         -473        -1060          542         244          6053         1594        -1250
lncrase in Cash                                113         2322         3202         7069        10639         7916        23441        26945
Increase(Oecrease) In Working Capital           -671         1449         2123         7911        13305        13971        21035        27736
.__........... ---------  ............. .........  ---------.... .........   ............ .... ..... __...... ..._  ... .. ...  . ....
Tetal Application of Funds                 13060        74192        76441        924         106162       113313       125U67       147159
Debt Service Coverage                                1.0          1.7          1.6          1.7         1.6           1.1          1.1         1.4
3 Years Average Investment                        37712        496          54479        19744        60765         41744       51822        60205
Self.pianering Ratie (3 Yre. Ave.)  )                 34%         235           25%         265          25%           25%          43%         60%



- 105 -
6614.06 sh"t ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 66.6I
(6466 Miliis".)
Forecast
vs.'s Isdil4  Ssetamsr 10                            1it0           1991          1902         1953          1664          1901        1Is"           1007
Plant In ServcIe                              244340        204303        344442       436411        404642       SW"00 I       470337        716941
Leoss  Aeedimewted 0e*reeleties                08609s       101033        124741       143447        348439       131128        220796        256446
Not Operating plant                         149855        178330        U91160       27330        339104        is""6         440431        804470
Work In Pegr.s.                                   69337         76726        86213         91321        07260         Om$2          6004         92454
?etsl Dixed Assets Pee.                     1003021       202048       304600        204800       426404        40260         137484        549630
DI.ed Ass.ts    rlei5ilsiIee                      12003        13009         18370         36040        186,4         21720         22476        11112
sinking Fund                                       3303          3700         4*9           4017         8773          66US          ??13         6953
Other Assets                                       1210          18s"          1100          sit         1104           22            414           530
Cerrest Assets
Cash.                                           23033        25356         28886        38627         46466        14304         77625        106610
ft90elnshi.s                                    10728        13200         16*4.3       37664         23671        26120         30402         32631
Inreeterl es                                     7612         022           0727        10664         111461       1*661         12534         12239
Total C.rrest Assets                         41411         47777         138*0        64211        79208         06371        120761        I15660
Deferred Loss 0. LEehasge                         I5302         12314         6027          0024         68641         8308          4441          3909
Tt.1s AsSaet                                2701901       331720        2060439      680460       637001        612001        693303        717152
C4altY s.d LlIG04lItie.
Eqs Ity
Peid-in Capitai                                 11410        12902         13*02         13802        13802         13602         13602        13302
Irrigetlec Con.tributlio                         4636         4773          4704          "to6         484          44            4388          4306
metelsed srslegs                               82451        61177         72076        67133        103862       126733        157404        184177
fts6.stist.s Surplus                            17405        44266         77400        61148        10621        127626         80271        174123
Grants snd Customer Countributions              12748        13896         14881         35405        14359         17113         17946        18622
Totai Eqisty                               135047        1566"         1622         213283       144370        39194         343637        3962333
Long.T.rw D.6t
Loof.1.rm Debt                                11004         134'64        1586720      194472       236306        263964        200720        318713
Ltess  Correct iistsrtleA                       10306        12687         13624         16302        24119        16461         30150         33671
Laeg.Ttrim Debt (Net)                       966474       121677        149000       366170       214346        23751J        260179        298242
Further sorresslsno                                   a          goo         13000        13300         13000         13000         14000        33000
lInklig Fund                                       1203          2700         4*9           4917         5773          6"28          7713         8953
Deferred Liabililties                               i87            70                   0                   0             0             0             0
Other Llshlillties                                   74            7o            03           87           03            96           1oo           105
Current Lishililties
Adeesens Psyssibe                               10282        131006        16140         17360        17007         16714         18103        18661
Cwrreet istsrfltes                              10366        1266          13424         14302        34118         36441         30550        33471
Aserved Interest on Leos  Tom. Det               3868          1760         A128         6737          3731          4794          89609         7275
Other C.srret Liehilisles                        1434        10403         13637         12614        13367         14886         386434        16933
Totai Current Lislliltl4s                   31714         30173         43830        6403          64053        82628         07478         73866
Totai lisity aend LislilftIes              273001        331720        38830        459460       637v09        612003        483303        7971162
DeBt St s 7. of ?*we  capital                            441          471           487           401          901           60            471          447.
Long-Teom 0*66 of a It of Tetel Capitai                  421          657           447.          401                        4.67.          4           447.
Cse..t Ratio                                            130%          1221         1221,         1311         131%          1817.         1797         2047.



- 106 -
ANX 19
THAILAND
THI  ~EP  "SYTEI DEVELOPIUNT PMOJECT
Electricity o         tinh  uthoritv of Thaitand
TarfffStructutt
(As of Sptur 1990)
Tye                                                     D d Charge                                          g.qy   COsi
(ldi/month)                                            (8/kUh)
lIritrfal
Lare                                                           170                                             1.22
Medla                                                          174                                             1.23
Smll                                                           177                                             1.23
Tim  of day for large inrntries
(effective Jan. 1, 1990)
P"k                                                         lao                                             1.22
Partiat Peak                                                90                                              1.22
0ff-Peek                                                     0                                              1.22
Bius I an"
Large
BeLow 11 kW                                                239                                              1.28
11 kV or ov                                                229                                              1.23
SmaLL                                                            0
First 40 kWh
(Minima I U.12)
Kaxt 260 kWh                      1.77
Next 200 kwh                      1.16
NS 500 kWh                        2.11
Next 2,000 kWh                    2.43
Ovar 3,000 kWh                    2.50
Goveriwnt Inetitutiong                                             0           First 10 kWh
(including water works balou 30 kW)                                            (minim   * 18.2
Over  10 kWh)                     1.82
Aarfcultural Pumir.                                                0           First 100 kWh
(mini.  I 117)
Over 100 kwh                      1.17
Ridentiit                                                          0           First 5 kWh
(minia  3 5)
Next  10 kWh                      0. 70
Next  10 kWh                      0.90
Next  10 kWh                      1.17
Next 65 kWh                       1.S6
Next 50 kWh                       1.68
Next 150 kWh                      1.76
Next 100 kWh                      2.02
Next 400 kWh                      211
Next 400 kWh                      2.11
Over S0 kWH                       2.43
Noteat     1.   Minmim demwnd charge for fndustrL mid tLorge bminea  consumrs--30 pere nt of the previ0us 12 montho
din.W charge.
2.   4 percent biLLing deousnt appticabte to Industria0l crmers.
3.   Spwcia  rates pply for  0c1iffe Industries Like electroLysls.



- 107 -
ANNZEX 20
TMILAME
TRIRD POia* UStTEM DEVELPe"NtF" PROJECT
Electricity Generati.u Authoritv of ThailmW
Note of Return an ECAT'. PcP. t(9I 90.9
Inere-
_intol
Energy     nerwy    Tarfff    1/kUt
Fiseal    Capital    OmN        Fuel       Total      san        sa"eoo    current   constant       sales        Net
yeer      costs      costs      costs      costs      C6h)       (gjh)      price     price        roeveue     benefit
19           137                     -        137                               -                 -          -     137
1986         m7                               m                                                          -        -m
1967         747                              747                                                                 -747
1968       3,791                     *      3,791         -          -          -          *                    -3,791
1969      11.208          *                11,208    33,611                     -                              -11.201
1990      23,032        176      4,052     27,259    39,369      5,758      1.259      1.210         6,966     *20,291
1991      19,185        599      8,575     28,360    46,102    12,490       1.352      1.250        15,608     *12,752
1992      22,707      1,386      9,502     33,596    50,620     17,009      1.347      1.198        20,367     -13,229
993       24,921      1,635     14,585     41,140    55,294     21,682      1.386      1.184        25,680     -15,460
i994      32,260      2,043     19,819     54,122    60,290     26,678      1.509      1.240        33,090     -21,032
995       23,272      2,539     20,201     46,012    65,283     31,671      1.646      1.301        41,191      -4,821
1996      17,918      3,353     21,319     42,590    70,475     36,864      1.762      1.339        49,358       6,768
i997      14,334      4,040     24,852     43,225    75,624    42,013       1.887      1.379        57,918      14,693
1998       5,176      4,435     27,075     36,686    81,418    47,806       2.002      1.406        67,234      30,548
1999       1,816      4,933     28,896     35,6U     87,192     53,581      2.063      1.394        74,670      39,026
2000-
2013           0      4,933     29,550     34,482    $7,192     53,581      2.063      1.394        74,670      40,188
2014     -46,505      4,933     29,550    -12,023    87,192     53,581      2.063      1.394        74,670      86,693
All figures in the toble are in million Baht except as noted
ERR * 16 percent
ERR a 14.6 percent with copital and O1 costs nicreaod by 10 percent.
ERR * 14.7 percent with enrgy sales reduced by 5 percent.



- 108 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2
THILAN
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Pak Hun Hydropower Project: Economic Analysis
1.             The purpose of the study is to demonstrate that the Pak Hun
hydropower project which is selected by the Westinghouse Interactive Generation
Planning Program (WIGPLAN) as part of EGAT's Power Development Plan (PDP) is the
least-cost solution. Without the Pak Hun project the next best alternative
comprises 3 x 50 MW internal combustion turbines, although this combination
results in about 15X higher loss of load probability, as indicated by WIGPLAN.
The replacement fuel is assumed to be heavy fuel oil as nat-ral gas is fully
committed. For the Pak Mun project the cost of environmental and resettlement
measures has been considered but the irrigation benefit is not evaluated.
2.             The investment costs of all projects are in constant 1991 prices.
Taxes, import duties, interest during construction (IDC) and escalation are
excluded from the costs. The costs of Pak Mun and the replacement internal
combustion turbines are summarized below:
Pak Mun Hydroelectric Project (4x34 MW)
(B million)
Power Station            -                  3,100
Resettlement and         -                    600
Environment
Transmission system      -                    240
Total        -                   3,940
Internal Combustion Peaking Turbines (3x50 MW)
Power Station            -                  1,800
Transmission system      -                    240
Total        -                   2115
3.             The O&K cost of the power plants and associated transmission
system are assumed to be a fixed percentage of capital costs as follows:
X of CaRital Cost
Internal combustion turbine plant             3.0
Hydro plant                                   1.0
Transmission system                           1.5



- 109 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 2
4.            The price of heavy fuel oil used in the calculation is based on a
crude oil price of US$20 per barrel in 1991, escalated in real terms by 3X per
annum till 2006 and remaining constant thereafter.
5.            Economic lives of various components are:
Internal combustion turbine plant            20
Hydro civil works                            50
Hydro plant                                   30
Transmission system                          33
6.            The result of the analysis shows that Pak Mun is the least cost
solution for all discount rates upto 15.71 (the equalizing discount rate),
compared to the opportunity cost of capital of 121 in Thailand. With a
reduction of 20X in the price of fuel oil the equalizing discount rate drops to
13.61, whereas the equalizing discount rate drops to 13.91 with a 101 increase
in the capital cost of Pak Mun; both the aforementioned discount rates are
higher than the opportunity cost of capital.



- 110 -ANEX 22
Page 1 of 2
THIRD OWRYSEDEVELOPENTPROJECT
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
List of Documents in Project files
A.   Environmental Imact Assessments and Environmental IMRact Mitigation
and Resettlement Plan-
A.1 Team Consulting Engineers, Ltd.:
(a) "Environmental and Ecological Impact Assesmoent of the Pak Mun
Project" - Vol. I, Summary Report, January 1982
(b) "Environmental and Ecological Impact Assessment of the Pak Mun
Project" - Vol. II, Main Report, January 1982
(c) "Resettlement Plan for Pak Mun Project", January 1982
(d) "Selected Environmental and Ecological Assessment of Pak Mun
Project"   Vol. I, Summary Report, October 1984
(e) "Selected Environmental and Ecological Assessment of Pak Mun
Project" - Vol. II, Main Report, October 1984
(f) "Selected Environmental and Ecological Assessment of Pak Mun
Project" - Vol. III, Resettlement Plan, October 1984
A.2  Thai Cabinet Directives, "Environsental Impact Mitigation Plan
- Pak Mun Hydroelectric Project," - Part III, Main Report,
English Translation Version, August 1990.
A.3 Summary Report on Resettlement Plan and Compensation Rates for Pak
Mun Hydroelectric Project, Units 1 - 4. Report No. 31202-3223. Hydro
Power construction Department, EGAT, December 1990.
A.4 Interaction of Bank Mission with NGOs and EGAT Publicity (collection
of correspondence)
B.   Technical Studies
B.1 SOGREAH Consulting Engineers
(a) "Pak Mun Multipurpose Development Project," Executive Summary,
December 1985.
(b) 'Pak Mun Multipurpose Development Project," Vol. I, Main Report,
October 1985.
B.2 EGAT,"Pak Mun Multipurpose Development Project,"
Report No.31100-3103, March 1988



- 111 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 ef 2
B.3 MONENCO Consultants, Ltd., "Marginal Costs of Electric Power," Draft
Report, September 1990
B.4 AsLan Institute of Technology, "Hydraulic Model Study of Pak Mun
Hydropowe, Project," October 1989
D.5  ECAT Power Development Plan,  PDP 90-2, June 1990
B.6  EGAT Power Development Plan,  PDP 90-3, October 1990
C.   Financial
CA1 Annual Report 1989, EGAT
C.2 Project Loan Report, October 30, 1990
C.3 Lignite Mine Sector Financial Statement, 1989



THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
Organization Chart
| GENERAL MANAGER 
cc0l Iwi                                   TpuUMMSSIONC                      D
IL   t i AN 641        ISIO          iSYSTE                              ANDS
Lu Z ZEWWN         EI TWEM1 &ARET OEMEE IDIIMc
z
'U
.OI  EBtERII POWER  POWER EjWWEEm                                               S
ENGHEw                     ' owXEi E
Usf                                   .                        ESAI
I    I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
CHART 1-



THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Construction Schedule - Pak Mun Hydropower Project
1990               1991               1992                 1993               1994               1995
ITEM
1 2 3   1 _  2 314 _  2 314 1 2 314 1 23 4  1 2 3 4
Preliminary works___
Bid Invitation, evaluation and contract award                                                                               .       i                                               |
, s- -   '---'''-'--'''-''---'--'''-'-'--------I-------    --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  --- -   --.--   --- -   .. .  ------    -----   I------ -.-----  -----   - - - . .    - -   - -    - - - - - -   - -   - - - - - -   . .  - - - . . .
Civil woiks_________
Power plant e9pnent__
Hydraukc equlpment_
Hlqh v         equiment                                           _
Transunisson svstemn             ___                                                                     --- --       ----                                      ------  -------
Construction
Phaso 1 coffef dam
Phase 2 coffer dam                                                      . _
::.: : : --- -- --  ,: --------  -------- --             ::                            : -- - -- - --- - --- -- -- -- - --- -    -    ----'-     -''-   1-''- '---   -----    -- --'' ---' '- ' --'-     ------ ----   ----- ' -'---
Phase 3 coffer damn
P owerhouse excavai on  ___  _   _                               -                  - - -     - -----  I       - -- - =---                 =           =   ----   --  ----- ---- -----
Powerhouse concreting
Spiltway_______________________
RCC closure dam
Supply, erection and commissioning                                                                                          _   _-
-- --- -- ---- -- -- - -- ----  ------   -- -- - - --  -   -      --- -    -- - -- - - - ---    -------  -----   ----    -|-----   -- --   --    -   -  -  -- ----    ---  -   ----  ...  - --    ------    --- --   .. .. . --   ----
Overhad crane
Turbine generator * I
#2 _____________
#4
Jy         .   ufil:.........                                                                                              _   ------  ---- -     - 1--------~ - - --- -~--- --   ---~~--- --------
High voltage equpment_______
Transmission system
Ernvironmental Impact miligadon plan
saftW48468a
CHART 2



THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Construction Schedule - Mae Moh Mine Expansion
1990               1991                1992
ITEM
1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   23    4
Bid Invitaton, evalumon and amrd
LWte handbig sypoem
Power s4mpr  eq umS~    - _  _       _ _                   ------ ---------
Motorgas_-
GroWl tradoks
Wheeled  zs______
.-   _.    -   ------                       _.                                    ._ .......  _._ _.........._______. ............. ..._........ __._...t
Traes. budcs and odor veicles
---- -----                                   _    =-=-=-__-._.-_-==-'--
C_ a __s_______._.._______
Supply. _r_O==1=-., esting =-_I eemmlasien
CHART 3



voo         i         .          j                          t~~~~~~~~~~            ~~                   ~~~~~~~~~AO PEOPLE'S  1 AILAN'D      
JU -@ Jchonwoz ( ~~~DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC f(
Ch                        IL* o,I   :etf                                                                           d    v
15                                      A,g W g   opn  11,{
t o 01 qQf  Nf  lSf11  .r lt l a ua\.OEI SGK
d HA     /15 M4  11 === 
MA W  PSH   , T v   .      V            UONHA I    Urew  __bq lf                '-o.-I H 
| \ \ t35 w a 5 kb II tX _ @tCresol , APUOG|;sPVG   
| i _ \-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THAIL: ssAND|'7_lt=  O fE1      r-P
i i X , 9 lo; 24 W ~~~~ELETRIiT   GE,hN 5ERTINGAbUTHe |+R  ,T 
>~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~O Slba  \IL  n5pPo        >bPh  lr             THAm.LAND
x ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~HR  POE SYTE  DEEOMN  PROJEhmCT ;hphm 5YBon 1   PKU
4 ( Nihn  1 Fhe 1o 5; "t < f % C \ Uhs > wB f~~~~~~~~~~DE
<  )   ,  Munolom 4   | z Cho 8 d n   / ,  t  G . . rq             9r \  - -2- h_s >ECT    -Fc
z                                             R   \ g  5  |    f    Ivpbvg. 1 r z- 5 2osthuhmo1Y2lSfN N . A  
a   _ _  __  _ Ju  ;         FYdoslnqo 2                                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50 k
- \ 1X]a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~230 c  kVlDu T-                                             _m,    L- 11s{  ou1_
. K2^C^ou i t  C. E wS   <                                             ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50G kV Triibm ss-r 
t || /                  \          ^                   ,A            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~230 kV 5b
lL                                                  ftelel ~~~~~~~~~~~Pow P12s
,Ilip,,,p Kral Kl       1       IL                  G         O     t~~~~~~~~~~i,,-2 Power  CP '-
le,~//                                                                                                 __ReinKonoe
o'D,,'i5 _,_ ,i
&10            ~~~~~~__EGIC                                                                                                     h.d IC2-4
3K*bw                                                                     BANGKOK 110           THlNkTBOiiO 
REGIOSvk  t  N Ah>3 2S d                                    XNo CO-@    *9thadoPb -                           22I P.1
g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()TH2MtCi BANGKOK NIX c
I                       '&                                                                             SOUTH 3ANGKOK ,~~~~BAGKK-TONUR
)  *S"sM^No  S-aUedsMETROPOLITAN AREA
L                            loow                M~~~~~~~"ALYSIA



