Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15744
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
JUNE 18, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currtncv Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1 = B25.0
BI = US$0.4
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October I to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASUTRES
GWh         -        gigawatt-hour (1,000.000 kilowatt hours)
km          -        kilometer (0.62 mile)
kV          -        kilovolt ( 1,000 volts)
kVA         -        kilovolt-amilpere (1,000 volt-ampheres)
kW          -        kilowatt (1,000 watts)
kWh         -        kilowatt-hour (1,000 kilowatts)
MW          -         megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
MVA         -        megavolt-amperes (1.000 kilovolt-amperes)
MWh         -        megawatt-hlour (1.000 kilowatt-hours)
m           -        meter
mg          -        milligram
msl         -        mean sea level
MT          -         metric ton
MMT         -        million metric tons
rai         -        0.4 acre (0.16 hectare)
ug          -        microgram
ABBREVIATIONS
CAODFF    -          Committee on Assistance and Occupational Development for Fish Farmers
CAPAP       -        Committee for Assistance to Project Affected Persons
DHF         -        Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever
DIW         -        Department of Industrial Works
DOF         -        Department of Fisheries
DOH         -        Department of Health
DMR         -        Department of Mineral Resources
EGAT        -         Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
FIA         -        Environmental Impact Assessment
FGD         -        Flue Gas Desulfurizer
HIM         -        Health Impact Mitigation
ICR         -        Implementation Completion Report
IERR        -        Internal Economic Rate of Return
MEA         -        Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOPH        -         Ministrv of Public Health
MOSTE       -         Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
NEB         -        National Environmental Board
NESDB       -        National Economic and Social Development Board
NGO         -        Non-Governineital Organization
NO,         -        Nitrogen Oxide
OEPP        -        Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
PCD         -        Pollution Control Department
PDP         -        Power Development Plan
PEA         -        Provinicial Electricity Authority
PWD         -        Public Works Department
RAP         -         Resettlement Action Plan
ROR         -         Rate of Return
SAR         -        Staff Appraisal Report
SFR         -        Self-tiianiciing Ratio
SO,         -        Sulfur Dioxide
SO,         -        Sulfur Oxide
TSP         -        Total Suspeneded Particulates
US AID      -        US Agency for International Development
UIS EPA     -         tS Environniental Protection Agency



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................  ii
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Objectives.                                                            3
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ....        .......... 11
D.  Project Sustainability ......................................... 13
E.  Bank Performance ......................                                             14
F.  Borrower Performance ......................  14
G.  Assessment of Overall Outcome ......................  14
H.  Future Operations .......................  15
1.   Key Lessons Learned .......................  16
Part II - Statistical Tables
Table 1  -   Summary of Assessments  .........            ....................... 18
Table 2  -   Related Bank Loans .       ................................... 19
Table 3  -  Project Timetable ..................................... 19
Table 4 - Loan Disbursement ............. 20
Table 5  -   Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ...................... 20
Table 6  -   Key Indicators for Project Operation  ......................... 21
Table 7  -   Studies Included in the Project .......        ...................... 21
Table 8A -   Project Costs .     ....................................... 22
Table 8B -   Project Financing  ............         ......................... 23
Table 9A -  Internal Economic Rate of Return - EGAT's PDP  ....           ............. 24
Table 9B -   Equalizing Discount Rate - Pakmun Hydropower Project ....        ......... 25
Table 9C -   Economic Internal Rate of Return - Mae Moh Mine Expansion ....       ..... 26
Table 10 -   Status of Legal Covenants ........         ........................ 27
Table 11 -   Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ........         ...................... 31
Table 12 -   Bank Resources - Missions  ........          ....................... 32
Appendixes
A. Mission Aide-Memoire  ..........................                                     33
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR ..........             ................  36
C. Financial and Economic Analyses ............              ............... 44
D. Pak Mun Hydropower Project ..........................                                58
E. Mae Moh Mine Expansion  ..........................  79
Map IBRD No. 2276CR
This docunent has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






-_-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
Preface
This is an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Power System
Development Project for which Loan 3423-TH in the amount of US$54 million equivalent was
approved on December 10, 1991. The loan was closed on March 31, 1995. It was fully disbursed, and
the last disbursement took place on March 1, 1995.
Under the supervision of Darayes Mehta (Principal Power Engineer, Infrastructure
Operations Division, East Asia and Pacific Region I), the ICR was prepared by Brahm D. Prasher
(Consultant) on the basis of an ICR mission and drawing upon the project completion reports of: (a)
Robert Dwyer (Consultant, Fisheries); (b) Sanatasiri Sornmani (Consultant, Health); and (c) Maninder
Gill (Resettlement Specialist, ASTHR).  The report was reviewed by J. Shivakumar, (Chief,
Infrastructure Operations Division, East Asia and Pacific Region I) and Walter Schwermer (Project
Adviser, East Asia and Pacific Region I). The Borrower, the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand (EGAT), provided comments which are included as Appendices to the ICR, and prepared a
Borrower's Evaluation Report in accordance with ICR guidelines.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the ICR Mission in February 1996. The ICR is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and EGAT, internal Bank memoranda and other material in the
project files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing most of the
financial, performance, and investment data for the project and supplementing the Bank's information
on the project implementation and operational experience.






-ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
Evaluation Summary
A. Introduction
(i)        The loan of US$54 million for the project was approved by the Board on December 10, 1991,
over a year after its appraisal. From its very inception this project was contentious on environmental and
social grounds (para. 2).Y'. Pak Mun was strongly opposed by the Thai NGO, Project for Ecological
Recovery (PER), an NGO opposed to the construction of dams per se; international NGOs essentially echoed
the sentiments of PER. (paras. 3-4). In regard to Mae Moh, the Bank was concerned with the high level of
SO2 emissions from the power plant and wanted EGAT to install SOQ control technologies on the large power
units at Mae Moh, but acceded to EGAT's request to defer a decision on this issue till EGAT had completed
studies on Acid Rain and High Terrain Ecology (para. 5). The project's main objectives were to assist in
optimizing investment decisions and to help meet the growth in power demand, and to strengthen the
environmental capabilities of the power and mining sectors (para. 6). The Bank also expected that appropriate
emission standards would be evolved for power and industry, during project implementation (para. 8).
B. Implementation Experience and Results
(ii)       Overall, the project objectives have been substantially achieved (para. 10).
Pak Mun Hydropower Project
(iii)      Pak Mun was completed at a cost of US$233 million against an appraisal estimate of US$178
million; the cost was very adversely impacted by the Gulf war in 1990-91. This could not have been
predicted at appraisal and is considered a force majeure affecting the project. Resettlement and environmental
costs at US$32.3 million were about US$10 million higher than appraisal estimates, primarily because of
larger compensat.on packages provided to curb protests and accommodate affected people through more
diverse resettlement options (para. 48).
(iv)       Resettlement and compensation of affected persons has been carried out satisfactorily. The
absence of comprehensive surveys of all adverse project impacts at appraisal, necessitated substantial
upgrading of the resettlement and compensation policies, leading to higher mitigation costs. Efforts at: (a)
information dissemination; (b) participation of and consultation with affected persons; and (c) grievance
redress, all lacking at the start, were strengthened as implementation progressed. However, it was not
possible to foster a participatory process of consultation with the NGOs (paras. 12-17).
(v)        The construction site was reclaimed and stabilized when the project was completed, and run-offs
of wastes were well-contained during construction to prevent adverse impact on the river. The facilities at
Kaeng Tana National Park were improved according to appraisal plans, and both, the Kaeng Tana and the
Kaeng Saphue rapids, which the NGOs expected would be destroyed, have been preserved (para. 18).
(vi)       The fisheries development component was implemented satisfactorily. Fisheries development and
conservation centers are operational. The fish migration ladder was constructed and its performance is being
monitored. A fisheries migration study was completed and has yielded substantial data that would be useful in
management of fish stocks. To improve villagers' income, a program is in place to provide facilities for
1/ Para. numbers refer to paras. in Part I - Project Implementation Assessment



-iii-
raising fish. Fishing activities, both downstream of the dam and in the reservoir have been substantial
following project completion (paras. 19-21).
(vii)      EGAT and the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) implemented a health surveillance and a health
services plan to prevent outbreak or introduction of diseases in the area, and to improve the health, nutrition
and sanitation aspects of the affected population. Fears on schistosomiasis disease developing in the affected
population and the introduction of schistosoma mekongi in the host tricula aperta have not materialized.
While all the health impact mitigation programs formulated were implemented by MOPH, its actions were not
well-coordinated with EGAT and its documentation was not readily accessible (paras. 22-24).
Mae Moh Mine Expansion
(viii)     The Mae Moh mine expansion project was completed at a cost of US$41 million, compared to an
appraisal estimate of US$46 million (para. 47). The annual lignite consumption target of 9.5 million tons had
been surpassed in Mae Moh, especially with installation of power Units 10 - 13 (1,200 MW out of a total of
2,625 MW at Mae Moh) (para. 27).
(ix)       Completion and operation of Units 10 and 11 resulted in a health related incident in the valley in
1992, when several hundred people had to be treated for exposure to high levels of SO: induced by inversion-
fumigation effects. This incident spurred several measures to curb pollution levels in Mae Moh and a decision
to progressively fit Flue Gas Desulfurisers (FGDs) on Units 4 - 11 by 1998 (paras. 28-29).
(x)        With the installation of a real-time air quality monitoring system and measures put into effect to
curb emissions, SO2 levels in the valley have been reduced considerably. Dust and NO, levels are not of
significant concern. Water quality in the downstream reservoirs has not achieved acceptable norms. EGAT
created three wetland areas to act as buffers for waters flowing between settling ponds and downstream water
bodies. The improvements due to these have so far been marginal (paras. 30-32).
(xi)       Four studies were completed on air pollution related matters. An air dispersion model has been
incorporated into the air quality monitoring network to facilitate automatic realtime air quality control. The
System-Wide Control Strategies Study and Acidic Deposition Study conclude that the control strategies being
implemented in Mae Moh will result in significant curbs on SO2 pollution levels. The High Terrain Ecology
study concludes that the deteriorated state of plant ecology in the high terrain area has been impacted by
causes other than high SO2 levels (paras. 33-34).
Strengthening of Environmental Institutions and Formulation of Emission Standards
(xii)      For a long time, the Government could not obtain grant funding for expert assistance and
training for the environmental institutions as envisaged at appraisal.  In late 1994, the E7 group of
international utilities, introduced to the Government by the Bank, agreed to provide the Government (without
cost) expert assistance and training in various environment-related areas. Implementation of this program
commenced only in May 1996 and is expected to last for about a year (para. 35). The Government provided
funds from its budget for environmental equipment. Emission standards for new power plants were issued by
the Government in January 1996. In regard to Mae Moh, the Government has issued a 1-hour ambient SO2
standard and has directed EGAT to fit FGDs on all power plants except Unit 1-3 which will be soon retired.
Emission standards for industry are still under consideration (para. 36).
Economic Evaluation
(xiii)     The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for EGAT's power development plan is 19.2%,
compared to the appraisal estimate of 16%; the difference is mainly due to much higher kWh sales. The
equalizing discount rate for the Pak Mun Hydropower project is 12%, which is above the opportunity cost of



-iv-
capital of 10%, but much lower than the equalizing discount rate of 15.7% at appraisal. The difference
results from the much higher than estimated cost of completing the project (paras. 37-39).
Financial Performance
(xiv)      EGAT returned a satisfactory financial performance in the FY91-95 period, and was in
compliance with all financial covenants agreed with the Bank (paras. 40-42).
C. Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
(xv)       The overall outcome of the projects completed under the loan is satisfactory and their physical
and economic aspects are likely to be sustained.  The sustainability of the project in regard to its
environmental and social attributes will depend significantly on: (a) periodic monitoring and evaluating the
social and economic conditions of the people affected by the project and taking remedial steps if necessary; (b)
adequately funding and continuing the fisheries development program and the fisheries migration study; and
(c) adequately funding and continuing the health impact mitigation program. Vigilance needs to be exercised
in regard to monitoring of the environmental conditions at the Mae Moh complex. Also, the Bank needs to
continue supervision and monitoring of Pak Mun and Mae Moh for the next few years, to assist in the follow-
up programs and in solving problems that may emerge (paras. 50-51).
(xvi)      Overall, Bank performance in identification and preparation is considered to be satisfactory. In
regard to high SO, emissions at Mae Moh, the Bank could have insisted on employment of SO2 reduction
technologies from the start. The Bank's performance during the implementation phase in supervision of the
project is also considered to be satisfactory (para. 52). The lack, at start, of: (a) very comprehensive surveys
of all adverse project impacts; (b) information dissemination; (c) participation of and consultation with affected
persons; and (c) grievance redress, were significant weaknesses in project preparation. Efforts at rectifying
these weaknesses during project implementation were not very successful. Still, considering that this was its
first run-of-the-river project, EGAT's performance in planning and preparation of Pak Mun, is rated as
satisfactory.  Its performance in project implementation is rated as highly satisfactory, considering its
institutional, policy and budgetary initiatives and corrective measures taken throughout project implementation.
While physical implementation of the health impact mitigation component for Pak Mun by MOPH was
satisfactory, it was lacking in coordination aspects. The performance of the Government on securing technical
assistance for strengthening the environmental institutions could have been faster; however, Government's
performance in taking actions after the high SO2 incident at Mae Moh was commendable. The Government
spared no efforts in accommodating the demands of persons affected by Pak Mun (paras. 53-54).
(xvii)     The main task ahead for the Borrower is to monitor the fisheries development work and studies
being implemented by DOF and monitor progress on the health impact mitigation plan being implemented by
MOPH for Pak Mun. With regard to Mae Moh, EGAT needs to expedite installation of the FGDs, monitor
SO2 and dust levels and intensify its effort to conduct analysis and evolve strategies to improve the quality of
the Mae Moh downstream waters (para. 56).
(xviii)    Following are the key lessons learned from this project: (a) changes in project design to reduce
its environmental impact are essential for hydropower projects; (b) developing an agreed policy and
implementation framework for resettlement and preparing a resettlement action plan acceptable to the affected
groups at the start of the project is essential; (c) involvement of affected persons (and concerned NGOs) in
project design is necessary right from the project concept stage; (d) environmental impact mitigation programs
entrusted to government agencies other than the Borrower need to have mechanisms for effective coordination;
(e) the Bank needs to take a pro-active stance in responding to issues raised by NGOs and disseminate project
related information periodically; (f) a mid-term review is essential for complex projects; (g) funding for all
tasks should be identified at appraisal; and (h) where adverse impacts are foreseen, as in the case of the
emissions in Mae Moh, the Bank should insist on control measures from the start (para. 57).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Introduction
1.         The Bank's relationship with EGAT began in 1957 with the financing of a project with the
Borrower's predecessor entity, the Yanhee Electricity Authority. Including Loan 3423-TH, the Bank
has made a total of 18 loans to EGAT for power and transmission system development. Bank
participation has helped EGAT to develop into a technically competent and efficient power utility. The
Bank has been instrumental in the implementation of adequate overall electricity tariff levels. This has
ensured the subsector's financial soundness and the cost effectiveness of power and transmission system
investments. The Bank's involvement has also assisted in ensuring that the power subsector in Thailand
is soundly managed, and this involvement has encouraged other lenders to provide investment financing
to the subsector on favorable terms. In recent years, EGAT's annual investments in power and
transmission system expansion programs have been relatively large. Power consumption in Thailand
has been growing at a rapid pace on account of the high economic growth rates and increasing affluence
levels experienced by a large section of the population. Even though the Bank has been making only
small contributions to EGAT's investment programs, the impact of Bank involvement has been
substantial. Bank advice and assistance have helped the Government address the issues of least-cost
investment planning, supply- and demand- side management and resource planning, power subsector
restructuring, and privatization.
The Project - Background, Scope and Issues
2.         The loan of US$54 million for the Third Power System  Development Project was
approved by the Board on December 10, 1991, after extensive reviews, over a year after project
appraisal in September 1990. From its very inception this project was contentious on environmental
and social grounds in regard to both its components, the Pak Mun Hydropower project and the Mae
Moh Mine Expansion project.
3.         The Pak Mun Hydropower project went through extensive review  and evaluation,
including assessment of environmental, resettlement and ecological impacts, beginning in 1982 before
the project was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in May 1990.  The project scope was
progressively modified and downsized to minimize ecological, environmental and resettlement impacts.
The approved project involved the construction of a dam 5.5 km upstream from the confluence of the
Mun River with the Mekong River, and its operation at completion was specified to allow a maximum
water level of 108 m msl (meters above mean sea level). This level would allow the river to rise to no
more than the level it attained to the top of its banks in the flood season. The storage capacity of the
dam thus consists essentially of the existing river channel.  The original design of 1982 ( which
provided for a water retention level at 113 m msl and a dam located at Kaeng Tana Rapids) maximized
power output at about twice the present generation capacity. To minimize environmental and aesthetic
impact, the dam was moved 1.5 km upstream to preserve the Kaeng Tana Rapids which serve as a
major tourist attraction for the area. The operating regime of the dam was also altered to preserve the



-2-
upstream Kaeng Saphue Rapids by limiting the water level at the dam to 106 m msl during the dry
season. These changes also considerably reduced estimates of the number of people that would be
displaced from about 20,000 in 1982 to about 1,500 (248 families) at appraisal.
4.         The Pak Mun Hydropower project was strongly opposed by the Thai NGO, Project for
Ecological Recovery (PER), an NGO opposed to the construction of dams per se; international NGOs
essentially echoed the sentiments of PER. The NGOs opposed the project on the grounds that it would:
(a) displace several thousand persons; (b) destroy the national park and the rapids that were of tourist
interest; (c) destroy the fisheries of the Mun and the Mekong rivers; and (d) lead to the outbreak of
Schistosomiasis in the project area. In the period between appraisal and Board presentation, several
presentations were made to the Bank by scientists mustered by PER on the fisheries and health aspects
of Pak Mun, and some Bank's Executive Directors visited the Pak Mun site during the Bank's annual
meeting held in Bangkok in 1991, before the operation was presented to the Board for approval. The
project was approved by the Executive Directors after lengthy debate and the Board directed that: (a)
the project be closely supervised; (b) a mid-term report be produced; and (c) the Government appoint
an Environmental Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Committee to oversee the implementation of the
environmental impact mitigation and resettlement plans.
5.        In regard to the Mae Moh Mine Expansion component, the Bank's most significant
concern was the high level of SO2 emissions that would emerge with the expansion of power generation
and the effects it would have on the health of the people and the surrounding ecology, especially on
high terrain which experienced very high ambient SO2 levels. The Bank wanted EGAT to install SO2
control technologies on the large power units at Mae Moh, but acceded to EGAT's request to defer a
decision on this issue (as ambient SO2 levels in the Mae Moh valley were within permissible levels) till
EGAT had completed ongoing studies on Acid Rain and High Terrain Ecology, and established the
least-cost solution for S02 control. Other less serious concerns for Mae Moh were in regard to levels of
NO, and dust and water quality.
6.         As stated in the SAR, the purpose of the project was to assist in financing a two year
(FY91-92) time-slice of EGAT's investment program, which at appraisal was estimated to cost a total of
US$2.9 billion. The main objectives of the Bank loan were: (a) to assist EGAT in optimizing its
investment decisions and to help meet the growth in power demand over the medium term at least cost;
and (b) to strengthen the environmental capabilities of the power and mining sectors. At appraisal, the
subprojects selected for implementation under the operation comprised of the following parts:
Part A  -  which would be executed by EGAT and partially financed from the Bank loan,
would comprise subprojects from EGAT's FY91-92 investment plan, including: (a)
the Pak Mun Hydropower project; (b) the Second Stage of the Mae Moh Mine
Expansion project for power Units 8 and 9; and (c) procurement and installation of
an environmental monitoring network at Mae Moh; and
Part B  -  which would be carried out by the Government and financed from bilateral sources
and Government budget, would comprise technical assistance, training and
procurement of environmental monitoring equipment for the National
Environmental Board (NEB), the Department of Industrial Works (DIW), the
Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), and the Public Works Department
(PWD).



-3-
7.         The project required EGAT to take measures to mitigate the environmental impacts of the
Pak Mun Hydropower project, including: (a) preservation of the national park; (b) development of
fisheries and the conduct of a study on fish migration; (c) development and implementation of a health
impact mitigation program; (d) resettlement and compensation of affected persons; and (e) monitoring
and evaluation of the program. The Mae Moh mine expansion component required EGAT to take
measures to: (a) control dust levels; (b) evaluate options and formulate a strategy to control NO, and
S02 levels, including conduct of studies on Acid Rain and High Terrain Ecology; and (c) reduce the
pollution of water discharged from Mae Moh.
8.         Procurement of significant technical assistance and equipment was included in the
component to strengthen the capabilities of NEB, DIW, DMR, and PWD in the environmental area.
This was considered important, so that these agencies could discharge their functions adequately in
managing, monitoring and regulating the environment. The Bank expected that specific steps and a
time frame would be evolved during project implementation for the establishment of appropriate
emission standards for power and industry. During loan negotiations, the Government explained that it
did not wish to obtain a loan from the Bank for funds required to implement this program, estimated at
US$5.7 million, and that it would seek bilateral sources to obtain grant funding for technical assistance
and use its own sources for equipment acquisition.
9.         EGAT and the Government also agreed to certain covenants to ensure a strong financial
position and continued viability of the subsector. The agreements required the Borrower to maintain
minimum financial performance parameters, such as maintenance of certain self-financing ratios, debt
loads, relative levels of short and medium term debt, and fuel adjustment provisions for electric charges
(Part II, Table 10). The financial covenants required EGAT to operate its lignite mine operations as
separate accounting and profit centers, to maintain separate accounts and financial statements each year
for its lignite operations, to set the transfer price for lignite according to a formula agreed with the
Bank, and to maintain certain financial performance standards for the mine operations (Part II, Table
10).
B. Achievement of Objectives
10.        Overall, the project objectives have been substantially achieved, as discussed in the
following paragraphs and dealt with in greater details in the appendices. Appendices D and E provide
a comprehensive picture of the Pak Mun and Mae Moh components, respectively.
Pak Mun Hydropower Project (see Appendix D for details)
Power Generation Potential
11.        With the completion of the Pak Mun Hydropower project, EGAT added a total of 136
MW (4 x 34 MW) of peaking capacity in the northeast of Thailand, a region of the country where
power demand is twice the available production capacity. This region derives a significant portion of
its electricity through imports over long transmission lines from the northern and central parts of the
country and from neighboring Laos. In recent years, it has often experienced black-outs due to
disruptions and instability over the long transmission system. In the first full year of operation (FY95)
following impoundment, the dam generated a total of 216 GWh of electricity. During the first four



-4-
months of FY96, 141 GWh of electricity was generated, compared to production of 79 GWh in the
corresponding period in FY95. This indicates that the annual generation potential of 280 GWh
estimated at appraisal is realistic, and this generation level is expected to be equalled or surpassed soon.
Resettlement and Compensation (see paras. 3 - 15 of Appendix D)
12.        EGAT has complied fully with the provisions of the agreements with the Bank. All land
acquisition, resettlement, and compensation for houses and farmland have been completed on terms and
with options which have been more diverse and generous than those formulated at appraisal. The
absence of comprehensive surveys of all adverse project impacts during the early stages of project
preparation, necessitated substantial upgrading of the resettlement and compensation policies. The
resettlement entitlements were thus continuously augmented to mitigate the diverse and unforeseen
nature of project impacts and to meet the demands of the affected persons, often expressed through
confrontation.  Relaxation of eligibility criteria and the increasing compensation and resettlement
entitlements caused discontent among households which were either not or just peripherally affected.
13.        Resettlement and compensation of 1,067 families, whose homes and/or farmlands had been
affected by the Pak Mun Hydropower project, has been completed satisfactorily. This number of
households is higher than the number of 984 households estimated in 1990. In addition to these,
compensation has been paid to: (a) 226 families who were inconvenienced by noise from the
construction activities; (b) 445 families that had their houses above the flood level; and (c) 83 families
in the free board zone (between 108 and 108.5 m msl) who opted to relocate. The final expenditure for
resettlement and compensation, including development of infrastructure, was Baht 491.5 million
(US$19.7 million) against an original budget provision of Baht 295.7 million (US$11.8 million).
14.        In April 1994, a few hundred villagers and some NGOs demonstrated against the project
in Bangkok to demand compensation based on impact on fisheries income. As the base line data on
fishermen in the Pak Mun project area was not adequate, the Government had to set up a succession of
mechanisms and committees to determine impact on fishermen. The last committee organized to make
the determination provided compensation to 2,932 households; some 3,000 additional cases claiming
alleged impact on fishing income are being investigated by the committee and a resolution of this matter
is expected soon.
15.        EGAT provided significant infrastructure in communities affected by the project. New
community centers, temples, paved roads and bridges, and health facilities were provided in place of
old ones at a cost of Baht 103.7 million (US$4.1 million).
Institutional Arrangements for Implementation (see paras. 16 - 27 of Appendix D)
Information Dissemination, Participation and Grievance Redress
16.        Institutional arrangements for planning and implementation were satisfactory. As agreed
with the Bank, the Government appointed a high level committee to oversee the implementation of the
environmental impact mitigation an resettlement plans.  The program  was managed through the
appointment of a large number of committees, some with participation of affected villagers and NGOs,
to formulate the resettlement and compensation programs and oversee their implementation. Efforts at:
(a) information dissemination; (b) participation of and consultation with affected persons; and (c)
grievance redress were lacking at start and were strengthened only as implementation progressed. A
socio-economic survey of the project affected persons was carried out by an independent external



-5-
agency after project completion. An independent external monitoring agency is being appointed for
periodic follow-up monitoring in the future.
Consultations Between NGOs, EGAT and the Government
17.       It has not been possible to foster through the project a participatory process of
consultations between the prominent Thai NGOs on one hand and EGAT and the Government on the
other. The NGO movement against construction of dams in Thailand, in particular, and on the Mekong
River, in general, was focused on the Pak Mun Hydropower project. The NGOs contended that EGAT
refused to give them information and as a result they considered it futile to discuss project issues with
EGAT. During the mid-term review the NGOs refused to participate in a round table conference
organized by EGAT and the Government at Bank's request.  The mid-term  review mission
recommended that the Government make additional efforts to reopen the dialogue between the project
authorities, the NGOs and itself and endeavor to convert the adversarial relationship on the Pak Mun
project into a productive alliance. This did not materialize during the remainder of the implementation
period, as the NGOs did not change their stance.
Environmental Impact Mitigation (see paras. 28 - 30 of Appendix D)
18.        EGAT complied with all the provisions of the environmental mitigation plan for the
project. The construction site was reclaimed and stabilized when the project was completed, and run-
offs of wastes were well contained during construction to prevent adverse impact on the river. The
facilities at Kaeng Tana National Park were improved according to appraisal plans. Both the Kaeng
Tana and the Kaeng Saphue rapids have been preserved.
Fisheries Development (see paras. 31 - 45 of Appendix D)
19.        The fisheries development component of the project has been implemented satisfactorily.
Fisheries development and conservation centers have been completed, and this year will be in full
operation with stocking activities in the dam storage areas. The fisheries development unit, which
manages the operation of the fish ladder, conducts education and training of local residents in
aquaculture, and in future will conduct studies and research on fish migration/abundance in the river.
To improve the lives and income stream of villagers and households in the project area, EGAT and the
Department of Fisheries (DOF) evolved a program to provide households affected by the dam with fish
culture ponds, backyard cement ponds, cement and earthen ponds at schools, and large rice field culture
ponds. Fishing activities following project completion, both downstream of the dam and in the reservoir
have been substantial.
20.        DOF and EGAT jointly conducted studies in two phases on fish populations and migratory
patterns in the Mun River and adjacent areas upstream and downstream of the Mekong River close to
the confluence of the two rivers. A total of 109 and 93 fish species were found in the Mun and
Mekong rivers, respectively, and 32 species were found exclusively in the Mun River. The Mun and
Mekong had 53 and 45 fish species of commercial value, respectively, and between the two only four
rare species. The results and insights gained from the Phase I study were used to design the Phase II
study conducted between October 1993 and September 1994. The objective of the Phase II study was
to assess species richness, composition, size distribution and abundance of economically important fish
species, and to gain further insight into the movement and migratory patterns of fish in the Mun and
Mekong rivers. The results of this study were in line with results obtained under Phase I. A total of



-6-
123 fish species representing 29 families were found in the Mun and Mekong locations. Of these, 40
species of fish are considered to be comrnercially important, while 20 represent ornamental varieties.
With regard to spawning and rnigration/movement patterns, the characteristics for each species vary.
Spawning and migration occurs throughout the year, depending on the species. There is evidence that
some fish descend the Mun for feeding, and others go up the Mun from the Mekong for this purpose.
Together with data collected on fish abundance and distribution in the Mun River in the early 1980's
during the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for this project and data available since then from
other sources, the Phase I and II studies will be useful in evaluating the effect of the dam on fish life in
the rivers in future.
21.        A fish ladder has been constructed based on experience and design of the ladder at the
Phayao dam. Operation of the fish ladder by DOF, optimization of its operation, and studies to
determine its effectiveness in fish migration are being supported by funds provided by EGAT since the
completion of the dam. Based on data and experience to date from operation of the ladder, particularly
over the two major migration seasons (May-June and October-November, 1995), about 60 species of
fish native to the river can migrate over the ladder. A total of 1,200 fish migrating up the ladder have
been tagged, and results and analysis from the Phase I migration data are due by late 1996. This will
be followed by Phase HI migration studies commencing in May 1996 which will yield data and results
on fish migration and abundance in 1997.
Health Impact Mitigation
Work Program of EGAT and the MOPH (see paras. 46 - 60 and 63 - 65 of Appendix D)
22.        EGAT and the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) instituted a health surveillance and a
health services plan to prevent outbreak or introduction of diseases/infections in the area, and to
improve the health, nutrition and sanitation aspects of the affected population. EGAT implemented a
satisfactory health services and surveillance program to monitor health and prevent outbreak of diseases
among villagers affected by the project and migrant workers. The surveillance data collected indicated
that the project area did not encounter diseases and infections that were out of line with the experience
in that region of the country. In the case of some infections and diseases, the rates were lower in the
project area compared to adjacent areas in the region, even though this is not due to the dam, since
impoundment occurred not too long ago.  Fears on schistosomiasis disease among the affected
population and the introduction of infections of schistosoma mekongi in the host tricula aperta have not
materialized.
23.        Under the health impact mitigation plans, the MOPH was given an important and much
larger role than that of EGAT in conducting programs for disease surveillance, training, strengthening
local health capabilities in the area, establishing primary health centers, improving nutrition and
environmental sanitation, and other health related measures. While all the health impact mitigation
programs formulated were implemented by MOPH, its actions were not well-coordinated with EGAT
and its documentation was not readily accessible (a significant weakness in entrusting implementation to
a Government agency when the Borrower has no control over its performance). The health and
surveillance programs being implemented by MOPH until 1994 have been encumbered by coordination,
management and supervision problems. The programs had not been well coordinated and not enough
information was available on the achievements of the MOPH effort. Recommnendations made by the
Bank during the mid-term review in 1993, and subsequently in 1994, on improving the management and
coordination aspects of the programs were not fully implemented.



-7-
24.        In 1995, a new committee to supervise, coordinate, and execute the programs was
organized with specific funding for each of the tasks. However, no information is available yet on the
results of recent efforts to strengthen the health impact mitigation plan which is supposed to continue
until 1998.
Research Work by Mahidol University
25.        The faculty of tropical medicine conducted research work on the ability of Neotricula
aperta to colonize in the man-made reservoir in Sirindhorn. The research work was also extended to
determine if schistosomiasis infection is present in people and animals around this man-made reservoir.
The study found no Neotricula aperta in potential habitats, and there is no infection of schistosomna
mekongi in humans, domestic animals and wild rodents in this area. The mid-term review mission in
1993 observed that further study is required to find out why Neotricula aperta does not colonize the
man-made reservoir. This issue does not appear to have been pursued.
Waste Water Plant for the City of Ubon and Pibulmangsaharn District
26.        At appraisal, waste water from the city of Ubol and Pibulmangsaharn district several
kilometers upstream to the dam site had been released into the Mun River without being treated, despite
the fact that these areas are highly populated. To improve the health of the river and reduce the
potential for serious infection of the river/reservoir, a waste water treatment plant was planned for the
city and district, especially as it was also expected that impoundment of the dam would increase the
population and number of communities downstream. A wastewater treatment facility is being built at
Ubon with a processing capacity of 22,000 cu m/day. The treatment system consists of a two-lagoon
aerated stabilization/settling pond. Wastewater will be collected from interceptors from present outfalls
into the Mun River of individual collection mains from different districts in the city of Ubon. The
system is expected to reduce the BOD loads to the river, when all the collectors in the district are
connected to the treatment facility.
Mae Moh Mine Expansion (see Appendix E for details)
Physical Targets
27.        To ensure that power Units 8 and 9 at Mae Moh being readied for operation had adequate
supply of fuel, EGAT needed to reconfigure and extend the first lignite handling system. The first
lignite handling system had hitherto been used to convey lignite to the stockyards from the northeast pit.
Under the loan, an extension was designed and the conveyance system was rerouted to operate between
the northwestern pit and the stockyard. In terms of the plans, the northeast pit was well provided with
other lignite conveyance systems. The acquisition of auxiliary equipment to support these operations
was also completed satisfactorily, even though some of the auxiliary equipment was procured after loan
closing (Table 8A, Part I). The annual lignite consumption target of 9.5 million tons had been
surpassed in Mae Moh, especially with installation of power Units 10 - 13 (1,200 MW out of a total of
2,625 MW at Mae Moh).
Environmental Impact of High SO2 Emissions (see paras. 2 - 9 of Appendix E)
28.        Completion and operation of Units 10 and 11 resulted in a health related incident in the
valley in 1992, when several hundred people had to be treated for exposure to high levels of SO0



-8-
induced by inversion-fumigation effects in the valley during the cool season. Power generation in the
cool season has been scaled back since then to avoid adverse health effects in the valley. Several other
interim and long term measures have also been instituted to mitigate impact and solve the emission
problems in the valley.
29.        Environmental monitoring equipment planned for procurement under the project and other
programs, together with environmental studies initiated or progressing during implementation of Loans
3138-TH and 3423-TH, assumed a higher degree of importance in evolving permanent solutions for the
emission problems in Mae Moh. Environmental equipment planned for acquisition, contributed by the
US Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), and obtained on loan from other agencies of the
Government was used to strengthen the monitoring network, to alert power plant management during
hazardous meteorological conditions, and to predict ground level SO2 levels with the aid of the
dispersion model developed with US EPA assistance.
Ambient Air Quality (see paras. 10 - 12 of Appendix E)
30.        With the installation of a real-time air quality monitoring system and measures put into
effect to curb emissions, SO2 levels in the valley have been reduced considerably. For calendar year
1994, the 24-hr SO2 standard established for Thailand has been essentially complied with. The 1-hour
interim standard established for Mae Moh has been complied with for 99.8% of the annual hours at the
locations which are most likely to show the highest SO2 concentrations. Occasionally, the interim 1-
hour standard at one or more monitoring sites has been exceeded during the cool season. The NO,,
levels in the valley are well below the 1-hr standard, and there are no compliance problems on this
issue.
31.        The 24-hr air quality standard with regard to total suspended particulate levels (TSP) has
been exceeded significantly and frequently close to and around the mining operations in the 1993 and
1994 periods. The frequency of the violations in locations away from the mining and power plant
operations is relatively small, and the violations generally occur for less than 15 % of the annual number
of hours.
Water Quality (see paras. 13 - 17 of Appendix E)
32.        Water quality in the downstream reservoirs, which ultimately receive the waters from the
mine-sumps, overburden areas, power plant effluent, and diversion channels, has not achieved
acceptable norms during the implementation of this project. Even though the overall loading of the
total solid dissolved content is high but acceptable, the conductivity, total sulfate, alkalinity and
hardness levels are high and exceed Thailand's standards.  The calcium  and sulfate levels in
downstream reservoirs generally exceed the drinking water quality standards, and in the case of sulfate
the level is about 50 to 100% higher than the standard for much of the year. EGAT completed the
creation of three wetland areas to act as buffer and bio-processing medium for waters flowing between
settling ponds and downstream water bodies. The improvements in total dissolved solid content are
marginal and sulphate content levels also appear to be largely unaffected.  No conclusions on the
effectiveness of wetlands can be drawn at this time. The quality of waters at Mae Moh is satisfactory
with regard to heavy, trace and toxic metal species. For the most part, none are present in measurable
levels or levels approaching environmental quality standards for surface or industrial waters.



-9-
Environmental Studies (see paras. 18 - 24 of Appendix E)
33.        A total of four studies, described in detail in Appendix E, have been completed on air
pollution related matters during implementation of the project. With the joint effort of EGAT, the
Pollution Control Department (PCD) and the US EPA, an air dispersion model for the Mae Moh area
was developed/completed in the USA in 1994. This model has been incorporated into the air quality
monitoring network to provide automatic realtime reading-outs of air quality at various locations based
on overall meteorological conditions in the valley. A study on system-wide strategies to control
emissions from coal based units in Mae Mo and other locations was also completed in 1994. The
results from these modelling and technology strategy evaluations do confirm that Fuel Gas Desulfurisers
(FGDs) planned/selected for installation by EGAT on Units 4 - 11 in Mae Moh are least cost and
effective in meeting air quality compliance requirements on SOQ levels in the Mae Moh valley.
34.        The Acidic Deposition Study completed in 1994 states that emissions from the Mae Moh
power units have a high influence on sulfate deposition rates in Northern Thailand. The deposition
rates in large areas in the Mae Moh valley and surrounding regions, particularly downwind, are several
times higher than levels which would initiate mitigation and strict control measures in sensitive areas
over North America. Results of the modelling effort in this study do point to reductions in sulphate
depositions to levels considered acceptable, with completion of control measures being implemented on
the power plant units in Mae Moh. The High Terrain Ecology study states that the high terrain forest
ecology in the Mae Moh area has been negatively impacted and the structure and functions of the
ecosystems exist in a deteriorated state. The primary influences for this deterioration have been human
disturbance, forest fires, and mining activities. The study concludes that the effects of SO2 emissions
on plants, soil fauna, water quality, wild-life and geologic rock structure have been insignificant.
Strengthening of Enviromnental Institutions (see paras. 25 - 30 of Appendix E)
35.        The Government allocated US$4.8 million to procure air pollution monitoring equipment
for PCD and DMR in 1994; until recently, DIW had not received funds for equipment planned for it.
Because of limited capability and failure to allocate funds .o procure expertise to write a good proposal
for applying for grant funding, the Government was unsuccessful prior to 1994 in obtaining grant
funding for expert assistance and training. In 1994, the Bank provided a small grant to PCD to assist
in preparation of detailed workplans for the training component.  In late 1994, the E7 group of
international utilities, introduced to the Government by the Bank, agreed to provide the Government
(without cost) expert assistance and training in various environment-related areas. Implementation of
this program commenced only in May 1996 and is expected to last for about a year.
Emission Standards for Power and Industry (see paras. 31 - 32 of Appendix E)
36.        During negotiations of the loan the Bank stressed the importance of establishing a time-
frame for the establishment of emission standards for power plants and industries. Emission standards
for new power plants were issued by the Government in January 1996. In regard to Mae Moh, the
Government has issued a 1-hour ambient SO2 standard and has directed EGAT to fit FGDs on all power
plants except Unit 1 - 3 which will be soon retired. Emission standards for industry are still under
consideration. In 1995, NEB modified/evolved some new ambient air quality standards which relate to
the power subsector. A new 1-hr standard (780 ug/cu m) was established for SO,, and the Carbon
Monoxide 1-hr standard was reduced from 50 mg/cu m to 32 mg/cu m. There were no changes made
in the standard for NO,. The 24-hr TSP standard remains the same as before at 330 ug/cu m; however,



-10-
the Government introduced a new standard on particulates with diameter of less than 10 microns, which
previously did not exist. The 24-hr ambient air quality standard for particulates below 10 microns has
been set at 120 ug/cu m.
Economic Analysis (see Appendix C, Section C for details)
37.        To reconfirm the appropriateness of investment decisions made during project preparation,
EGAT performed a cost and benefit analysis on its FY90-99 Power Development Plan (PDP) and for
each one of the project components funded under the loan. The re-evaluated IERR of 19.2% (Table
9A) for EGAT's power expansion program compares favorably with the appraisal estimate of 16%.
The difference is accounted for mainly by the higher actual kWh sales in the FY90-95 period and
higher estimated sales for the period after FY95.
38.        The equalizing discount rate for the Pak Mun Hydropower project, vis-a-vis the next best
option, which at appraisal was gas turbine generation, is 12%, which is above the opportunity cost of
capital of 10% in Thailand, but much lower than the equalizing discount rate of 15.7% at appraisal.
The difference results primarily from the much higher than estimated cost of completing the project
(para. 48).
39.        The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for the lignite mine expansion for power
Units 8 and 9, when treated as a stand-alone project, is above 150% (Table 9C). This unusually high
IERR is predominantly accounted for by the high transfer price for lignite. This transfer price, which
is calculated and "net-backed" from the cost of electricity produced from a hypothetical plant at Mae
Moh based on imported coal, is about 80% above international coal prices on the spot market. The
IERR for the combined investment, the mine expansion and power Units 8 and 9 treated as a single
investment, is 13.5%. This is marginally higher than the estimate of 13% obtained at appraisal during
preparation of the Second Power System Development Project (Loan 3138-TH).
Financial Performance (see Appendix C, Sections A and B for details)
40.        EGAT returned a satisfactory financial performance in the FY91-95 period, and was in
compliance with all financial covenants agreed with the Bank. During the period, kWh energy sales
increased by 62% to 72,800 GWh in FY95, compared to an appraisal estimate increase of 42% to
65,300 GWh. However, operating revenues did not increase commensurately primarily because of a
lower per kWh sales revenue realized for the period. The lower sales price charged by EGAT to PEA
coupled with increasing rate of PEA's demand which has surpassed MEA's for several past years,
resulted in a decrease in the average selling price and consequently, slower growth of EGAT's sales
revenue.
41.        Overall, EGAT's financial position during the period was strong and highly adequate; it
was able to internally finance an average of 34% of its capital investment program, and this was
considerably higher than the appraisal average estimate of 25% for the period. The average debt to
debt plus equity ratio of 44% for the five year period was more favorable than the appraisal estimate of
48% and the covenanted maximum of 60%. Other financial performance parameters, not covered by
covenants, are comparable to appraisal estimates and are discussed in Appendix C (Section A).
42.        EGAT maintains separate accounts for its mine operations.  The Mine Directorate's
financial position is strong, and a detailed discussion is included in Appendix C (Section B). The mine



-11-
operations are in compliance with respect to covenants agreed with the Bank during the five year period
(FY91-95). During the period, the debt to equity ratio averaged 1.11 and ranged between 0.87 and
1.29, compared to the maximum covenanted figure of 1.5. The debt service coverage ratio averaged
2.2 in the period, and is above the covenanted minimum ratio of 1.3. However, the mine operations's
debt service coverage was at -0.03 in FY95 due to the steep increase in development and other
expenditures in FY95. Because the debt service coverage ratio is based on current figures, the ratio
provides only an indication of capacity to comply with the covenant for FY95; the actual compliance
must be tested by strict application of the formula at the time of borrowing. The self-financing ratio
averaged 64% while the rate of return averaged 32% during the period. However, it is necessary to
view the strong financial performance and overall position of the mine department in the context of
transfer prices charged by the mine department and coal prices in international markets as discussed
elsewhere (Appendix C, Section B). When viewed in the vontext of international spot price of coal (on
Btu basis), the mine department's performance is less impressive and requires improvement in future,
perhaps initially along lines suggested elsewhere (Appendix C, Section B, para. 9). Its strong financial
performance and position is due to tranisfer prices mandated by Bank covenants.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Major Factors Affecting Implementation
43.        The major factors which affected implementation of the resettlement and compensation
component of the Pak Mun Hydropower project were: (a) the weaknesses in project preparation in
regard to: (i) the lack of comprehensiveness of the assessment of impact on persons (para. 12); (ii) the
absence of a detailed Resettlement Action Plan at start of project (now required by the Bank for all
projects); and (iii) inadequate base line data on fishermen in the area (para. 14), all of which was not
only conducive to continuous opposition from the affected people, but also necessitated continuous
change in resettlement and compensation entitlements and a greatly increased budget; (b) the lack, from
the start of the project, of: (i) strong involvement of affected persons in project design and formulation
of the resettlement and compensation plans; and (ii) a well formulated information dissemination and
grievance redress program; subsequent efforts by EGAT in this direction did not prove very successful
(para. 16); and (c) the continuous adversarial stance of the Thai NGO, Project for Ecological Recovery,
which spearheaded the movement of villagers against the project, in general, and against the
resettlement and compensation plans, in particular; this NGO stance could not be moderated right up to
project completion (para. 17).
Implementation Arrangements and Status
44.        EGAT, with assistance from consultants and contractors, was responsible for implementing
all components of the project which involved construction activity. The resettlement program on Pak
Mun was implemented by EGAT with oversight provided by government committees. The major
portion of the health impact mitigation plan on the Pak Mun project was and is being implemented by
the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH). The fisheries component was and is being implemented by the
Department of Fisheries (DOF) with the involvement of EGAT. It will be funded until end-1996 by
EGAT and thereafter by the Government. In regard to Mae Moh, the Government established
committees and working groups (Appendix E) in 1992, consisting of representatives from government



-12-
agencies and EGAT, to monitor impact mitigation measures, establish an air quality monitoring system
in Mae Moh, and evolve long term S02 control strategies for the Mae Moh power units.
45.        Consistent with EGAT's excellent record in the past, the Pak Mun Hydropower project
was commissioned (Part II, Table 5) within the planned schedules. This has been an excellent
performance record, considering that the project had experienced disruptions and protests from
opposition groups during implementation, and EGAT had to cope with frequent distractions and
enquiries from government committees and the public on a number of issues. Completion of the lignite
mine handling system was delayed for a few months; however, this was not critical, since the need for
lignite was reduced due to curtailment of its use following the 1992 incident. Procurement of auxiliary
equipment was also slowed, some of it to the period following loan closing, since immediate need for
equipment in question did not exist.
Strengthening of Environmental Institutions and Formulation of Eniission Standards
46.        Without firm  arrangements for funding/assistance, the Government could not act
expeditiously to implement the program for training and technical assistance for its agencies. These
tasks were initiated for implementation only at the end of 1995 after a long delay (para. 35). While
emission standards for new power plants have been issued, emission standards for industry are still
under consideration. The Government decision to introduce a 1-Hour ambient SO2 standard and its
directive to EGAT to introduce FGDs at Mae Moh have significantly reduced concerns about high
ambient SO2 levels (para. 36).
Completion Costs
47.        Including auxiliary equipment procured after loan closing, the Mae Moh mine expansion
project was completed at a cost of US$41 million, compared to an appraisal completion estimate of
US$46 million (Table 8A). Savings resulted from the procurement and installation of the lignite
handling system (US$18 million vs US$20 million), and significantly lower import duties and taxes
(US$3.8 million vs US$8 million). The savings in import taxes and duties resulted from a peculiarity
in Thai taxation laws. Import duties for turnkey projects are much lower than those for imported
equipment, and consequently the handling system was installed as a turnkey project. Some of these
gains were offset by increased cost for engineering and supervision (US$3.9 million vs US$1.2
million).
48.        The completion cost for the Pak Mun dam project was US$233 million, compared to an
appraisal estimate of US$178 million. The completion cost tor this project was very adversely impacted
by developments in the Gulf and war in 1990-91, during which period most of the bid documents were
issued and offers received. Abnormal increases in energy costs affected construction costs significantly.
This eventuality could not have been predicted at the time of preparing the cost estimates and may be
considered as a force majeure affecting the project. Resettlement, compensation and environmental
impact mitigation costs (US$32.3 million) were about US$10 million higher than appraisal estimates.
The main reason for this was the more generous compensation packages provided to curb protests and
accommodate affected people through more diverse resettlement options.
49.        Major increases resulted from civil works completion costs, and increases in electro-
mechanical equipment procurement costs. The costs for these components were US$75 million and
US$61 million, and these were about 70% and 32% above appraisal estimates, respectively. The



-13-
transmission system component was completed at US$13 million, about 45% above appraisal estimate.
As shown in Table 8A, there were cost increases for all other items for the dam project, except for
duties and taxes; however, the effect of these increases on overall completion cost for the project was
small. Based on the same reasons discussed in para. 47 above, import duties and taxes (US$4. 1) for
the project was about 41 % of the appraisal estimate.
D. Project Sustainability
Physical Sustainability
50.        The physical and economic aspects of the projects completed under the loan are likely to
be sustained. EGAT has had a long record of excellent management and operation on hydropower and
lignite mining projects. The Pak Mun Hydropower project may return even enhanced benefits in future,
since energy prices are expected to trend upward with rapid consumption growth in Asia. The Mae
Moh mine operations are expected to yield consistent benefits similar to those being produced recently,
since the mine has a "captive" in-house client for its production. FGDs being installed on power Units
4 - 11 assure usage of the mine output in future, while significantly curbing emissions of SO2.
However, it is possible to make significant improvements to yield improved production cost at the mine
in line with the cost of coal elsewhere (Appendix C).
Enviromnental and Social Sustainability
51.        Although the Pak Mun Hydropower project has been implemented with due regard to
environmental impact mitigation and resettlement and compensation, the sustainability of the project in
regard to these attributes will depend significantly on what actions are taken by EGAT and the
Government in the future in: (a) periodically monitoring and evaluating the social and economic
conditions of the people affected by the project and taking remedial steps if necessary; (b) adequately
funding and continuing the fisheries development program and the fisheries migration study; and (c)
adequately funding and continuing the health impact mitigation program, exercising great vigilance on
the outbreak of diseases, especially Schistosomiasis. Similar vigilance needs to be exercised in regard
to monitoring of the environmental conditions at the Mae Moh complex and in continuously reviewing
the options for controlling emissions from power plants and industry, ultimately with the evolution of
emission standards for industry as well. Also, the Bank needs to continue supervision and monitoring
of Pak Mun and Mae Moh for the next several years, in parallel with supervision of its future projects
in Thailand and requiring periodic reports from EGAT.



-14-
E. Bank Performance
52.        Overall, the Bank's performance in identification and preparation is considered to be
satisfactory.  In regard to high SO2 emissions at Mae Moh, the Bank could have insisted on
employment of SO2 reduction technologies from the start rather than agreeing to EGAT's proposals for
completion of complex and lengthy studies to arrive at a least-cost solution. The Bank's performance
during the implementation phase and in supervision of the project is also considered to be satisfactory.
The Bank has been in close and continuous touch with EGAT and the Government on the environmental
and resettlement issues of Pak Mun and the environmental issues of Mae Moh. Its mid-term review of
Pak Mun has been successful and served to identify problems and corrective actions at a crucial stage in
project implementation. The Bank has also responded adequately and in a timely manner to the
numerous confrontational correspondence and publications from the NGOs. Its Brochure "Pak Mun -
The Facts, The Background, Questions and Answers", which was subsequently translated into Thai and
published in the Thai newspapers, has been particularly effective in disseminating information about the
project. Finally, the Bank has been successful in implementing the major lessons learned from this
project in regard to "Participation" in EGAT's next project, the Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project.
F. Borrower Performance
53.        Considering that Pak Mun was the first run-of-the-river project (involving a whole range
of diverse social impacts not normally encountered in storage dam projects) that EGAT was
implementing, its performance in planning and preparation was satisfactory. EGAT's performance in
project implementation is rated as highly satisfactory, considering its institutional, policy and budgetary
initiatives and corrective measures taken throughout project implementation. EGAT cooperated fully
with the Bank missions during implementation, provided all data requested and implemented all
suggestions made by the Bank. EGAT also fully implemented the decisions of the various Government
appointed committees, providing budget increases in a timely manner. It complied fully with the
agreements reached with the Bank. Implementation of the health impact mitigation component for Pak
Mun by the Ministry of Public Health, though satisfactory in its physical implementation aspects, was
less than satisfactory in regard to its coordination and management and collating of information.
54.        The performance of the Government in implementing the component on strengthening the
environmental regulatory agencies could have been substantially expedited; however, Government's
performance in taking actions after the high SO2 incident at Mae Moh and in eventually issuing
emission standards for new power plants was commendable. The Government spared no efforts in
accommodating the demands of persons affected by Pak Mun.
G. Assessment of Overall Outcome
55.        The overall outcome in implementation of the project components under the loan is rated
as satisfactory, since most of its objectives and all its major targets have been (and are being) achieved.
The fisheries development and the health impact mitigation components for Pak Mun will continue to be
implemented till 1997-98; however, the accomplishments on these components to date have been in line



-15-
with appraisal objectives. No abnormal outbreak or introduction of diseases/infections have occurred in
the dam area, as feared during preparation. The ultimate success of the project will depend on actions
listed in para. 51 above in regard to the fisheries and health aspects, and monitoring and evaluation of
the resettlement and compensation program of Pak Mun, and the environmental issues associated with
Mae Moh.
H. Future Operations
56.        With completion of the project components implemented under the loan, the main
emphasis in future should be on the points enumerated below:
Pak Mun
(a)   DOF should fund and continue implementation of the fisheries development component of
the project, and EGAT should monitor the results and periodically provide the Bank with
information on the accomplishments of the program;
(b)  MOPH should fund and continue implementation of the health impact mitigation program
and EGAT should monitor the results and periodically provide the Bank with information
on the accomplishments of the program;
(c)   EGAT should continue to engage the services of an independent social science agency to
periodically assess the economic and social conditions of villagers who were resettled and
compensated, take remedial steps if necessary and provide the Bank with information on
the success (or otherwise) of the program;
Mae Moh
(d)  EGAT should install FGDs on Units 4 - 13 expeditiously and inform the Bank periodically
about progress;
(e)   EGAT and DPC should continue monitoring air quality regularly and frequently at the
mine and power complex, worker residential areas, and surrounding villages at Mae Moh
until all FGDs are installed on power units to adequately suppress SQ2 levels;
(f)   EGAT should continue and effectively use watering and other measures in mining
operations to control TSP levels at the mine pit and surrounding areas, and monitor
contractor mining, overburden removal, and dumping practices to reduce dust levels;
(g)  Prior to completion of the installation of FGDs on a majority of the power units, EGAT
should continue stocking and effective blending practices to ensure use of low sulfur
lignite during unfavorable weather conditions in the cool season;
(h)  EGAT should continue the practice of reducing electricity output at Mae Moh during
adverse meteorological conditions in the cool season, when SO2 levels are likely to exceed



-16-
air quality standards, and continue to schedule plant maintenance work during the cool
season when unfavorable meteorological conditions exist;
(i)   EGAT should monitor the physical and chemical composition of water streams and bodies
at the Mae Moh complex, and downstream in the valley;
(j)   EGAT should intensify effort to analyze, develop an understanding, and mitigate the water
quality problem at Mae Moh. It should monitor the input and output quality of the waters
in the wetlands to assess the effectiveness of wetlands for removal of sulphate and other
soluble species;
(k)   EGAT should secure more funding for procuring an automatic early warning system to
warn power plant operators and EGAT Headquarters with respect to hazardous air quality
situations; and
(1)   The Government should continue its efforts through DPC to evolve emission standards for
industry.
X. Key Lessons Learned
57.        Following are the key lessons learned from the project:
(a)   Changes in project design to reduce its environmental impact and resettlement needs (even
at the expense of losing economic benefits) are essential for hydropower projects (para. 3);
(b)   Developing an agreed policy and implementation framework for resettlement and
preparing a resettlement action plan acceptable to the affected groups at the start of the
project is essential so that subsequent changes are minimized and costs are kept within
budget. (paras. 12 and 14).  This requires conducting of very detailed surveys of
submergence and other adverse social impacts from the start. While this is simple for a
normal hydroelectric dam which impounds a river, it is less so for a run-of-the river
scheme like Pak Mun (incidentally, EGAT's first project of this kind), which presents
diverse categories of affected persons;
(c)  Involvement of affected persons (and concerned NGOs) in project design and formulation
of the RAP is necessary right from the project concept stage (para. 16); EGAT's attempts
at securing this involvement during project implementation did not meet with much
success, due in no small measure to the continuing adversarial stance of the NGOs;
(d)   When environmental impact mitigation programs are entrusted to government agencies
other than the Borrower (health program for Pak Mun) mechanisms need to be established
to ensure that the Borrower can effectively coordinate and control those activities (para.
23);



-17-
(e)   The Bank needs to take a pro-active stance in responding to issues raised by NGOs, keep
project information ready in a suitable form (this could be in the form of questions and
answers) and disseminate it periodically as appropriate (para. 52);
(f)   A mid-term review is essential for complex projects (para 52);
(g)   Funding or sou.ces of support for all tasks/programs should be identified and agreed to at
appraisal (funding for strengthening the environmental agencies was not finalized and
hence considerable delay was experienced in implementing this component) (para. 46); and
(h)   In situations where adverse health effects or other serious impact is probable, as for the
case of the looming emissions problems in Mae Moh, the Bank should insist on
installation of control measures from the start instead of acceding to the Borrower's
request to complete lengthy studies to find the least-cost solution (para. 52).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES






-18-
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Sunimary of Assessments
[   A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial          Partial     J    Negligible        Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                                        X
Sector policies                            X
Financial objectives                       X
Institutional development                  X
Physical objectives                        X
Poverty reduction and                                                                                 X
other social objectives
Environmental objective                    X
Public sector management                                                                              x
Private sector development                                                                            X
B. Project Sustainability          Likely                      Unlikely                     Uncertain
x
C. Assessment of Overall            Highly                                                    Highly
Outcome                   Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactorv
x
D. Maior Factors Affecting
the Project                Substantial                    Partial                     Negligible
Factors not generally subject              X
to government control
Factors generally subject to               X
government control
Factors generally subject to               X
implementing agency control
Highly
E. Bank Performance             Satisfactorv                 Satisfactorv                  Deficient
Identification                                                          X
Preparation assistance                                                  X
Appraisal                                                               X
Supervision                                                             X
Highly
F. Borrower Performance           Satisfactorv                 Satisfactor                   Deficient
Preparation                                                             X
Implementation and Operation               X



-19-
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                    Purpose                 Year of           Status
_______  ________________________    Approval   l
1. 1852            Lignite Mining                        1980       Completed
2. 2000             Hydropower Development               1981       Completed
3. 2312            Rural Electrification                 1983       Completed
4. 2407             Lignite Mining                       1984       Completed
5. 2915             Transmission/Distribution            1988       Completed
6. 3027            Power Development                     1989       Completed
7. 3138             Power Development                    1990       Completed
8. 3404            Distribution System                   1991      Implementing
9. 3404             Distribution System                  1991       Implementing
10. 3598           Distribution System                  1993       Implementing
11. 3798           Distribution System                  1994       Implementing
12. 3884           Hydropower Development               1995       Implementing
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           [  Date planned  T    Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     June 15, 1990      June 15, 1990
Preparation                                    September 1990     September 1990
Appraisal                                      September 1990     October 1990
Negotiations                                   January 31, 1991    May 28, 1991
Board presentation                             August 20, 1991    December 10, 1991
Signing                                        January 8, 1992    January 8, 1992
Effectiveness                                  March 19, 1992     March 19, 1992
Completion                                     December 31, 1994 January 1995**
Closing                                        March 31, 1995     March 31, 1995
8   Fisheries Development work financed by EGAT till December 1996, and by the Department of Fisheries
subsequently, will continue until September 1997.



-20-
TIIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
________ I  FY92  J FY93  [FY94  [ FY95
Appraisal estimate                                      8.0              32.0            49.0             54.0
Actual                                                  9.2              33.5            45.9             54.0
Actual as %  of estimate                                115              105              94                100
Date of final disbursement                                                                          March 1, 1995
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
[L. SAR KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS                                       [    Estimated       |        Actual
Pak Mun Proiect:
1. Completion Preliminary Works                                                March 1991            January 1991
2. Completion of Bid Awards
a. Civil Works                                                            December 1990           March 1991
b. Power Plant Equipment                                                  December 1990           August 1991
c. Hydraulic Equipment                                                      June 1991           December 1991
d. High Voltage Equipment                                                   June 1991            October 1991
e. Transmission System                                                    December 1991          January 1992
3. Completion of:
a. Coffer Dams                                                            February 1994          February 1994
b. Powerhouse                                                               June 1994           November 1993
c. RCC Closure Dam                                                        September 1994           April 1994
4. Completion of Erection/Commissioning:
a. Turbine Generator #1                                                     June 1994              June 1994
b. Turbine Generator #2                                                   September 1994          August 1994
c. Turbine Generator #3                                                   December 1994         September 1994
d. Turbine Generator #4                                                   February 1995          October 1994
e. Hydraulic Equipment                                                      June 1994            January 1995
f. High Voltage Equipment                                                   June 1994            October 1994
g. Transmission System                                                    September 1993          August 1993
Mae Moh Mine:
1. Lignite Handling System:
a. Commencement of Bid Preparation/Invitation                             September 1990           April 1990
b. Commissioning                                                            May 1993               May 1993
2. Procurement of Auxiliary Mining Equipment:
a. Start of bid preparation                                                 June 1990              June 1990
b. Start of Procurements                                                   January 1991          January 1991
c. Completion of Procurements                                               July 1993           September 1996



-21-
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation a!
|l. SAR Key Operating Indicators                                          |       Estimated        |    Actual
Energy Sales (GWh) in FY95                                                                 65.283           72,779
Average Sales Increase (FY91-95). %                                                          10.7              13.1
Average Revenue (Baht/kWh) in FY95                                                           1.82              1.31
Average Revenue (Baht/kWh) in FY91                                                           1.44              1.26
Operating Revenues. Million Baht (FY95)                                                   119.269           96,449
Average ROR, (FY91-95), %                                                                    11.7              6.6
Operating Revenue Increase (FY91-95). %                                                        78               68
Average SFR (FY91-95), %                                                                       25               34
a! For EGAT overall.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as defined at         1                                                j
Study              |          appraisal/redefined           |  Status              Impact of Study
1. System-Wide Control           To determine the effect of using particular   Completed   The study confirmed the feasibility
Strategies for Mae Moh Power     control strategies on power plant                     of the strategies being implemented
Plants                           combinations in the Mae Moh area: to                   on the power units in Mae Moh to
identify the least cost solutions to the SO,          control SO, emissions. The study
emission problem; & to investigate                    also gives comparisons on the
compliance issues vis-a-vis each strategy.            feasibility of locating new coal plant
The study also compares the merit of                  combinations in different locations.
locating future plants in different
locations in Thailand.
2. Acidic Deposition Study.      To determine the extent and level of acid    Completed   Data collected and modelling studies
depositions in Northern Thailand                      show that acid deposition rates from
originating from the Mae Moh plants. &                Mae Moh plants are quite high &
to evaluate the effect of the control                 significant over wide areas
strategies planned for installation on                downwind. Results also show that
deposition rates using different                      control strategies will be effective in
combinations of existing plants and new               reducing levels significantly.
plants.
3. High Terrain Forest Ecology    To evaluate the high terrain forest      Completed   Study finds the high terrain ecology
Study                            ecology in the Mae Moh area & identify                in a deteriorated state; however. the
influences and effects on the ecology.                primary cause/influences appear to
be human disturbances, fires, &
mining. SO2 emissions do not
appear to have yet caused adverse
effects on plants & living creatures.
4. Air Pollution Modeling Study    To develop a dispersion model to measure   Completed   The model is being used at Mae
ground level SO, concentrations based on              Moh as part of the early warning
prevailing meteorological conditions.                 system to warn power plants of
hazardous air quality conditions.



-22-
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8A: Project Costs a/
Appraisal estimate                   Actual
Foreign                         Foreign
Item                      Local   exchange               Local    exchange
costs     costs      Total     costs       costs     Total
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Mae Moh Mine
First Lignite Handling System                 8.00      12.00     20.00      2.70        15.25     17.95
Auxiliary Mining Equipment                   0.67       14.50      15.17     5.22        9.83      15.05
Engineering                                  0.25       0.50       0.75      0.33           -       0.33
Civil Works                                   1.20         -        1.20      1.15                  1.15
Dams & Diversions                            0.88                  0.88               -                -
Duties & Taxes                                8.00         -       8.00      3.85           -       3.85
Base Cost                                 19.00      27.00      46.00     13.25       25.08  b/ 38.33
Physical Contingencies                        1.90      2.50       4.40         -           -         -
Price Contingencies                           2.90      4.70        7.60        -           -         -
Total Cost                                23.80      34.20      58.00     13.25       25.08  b/ 38.33
Pak Mun Dam
Preliminary Works                            6.13          -       6.13      10.43          .      10.43
Compensation, Resettlement Environmental     22.41         -      22.41     32.30           -      32.30
Civil Works                                  25.85      17.88     43.73     46.30       29.13      75.43
Hydraulic Equipment                           1.28      6.15        7.43      1.38       7.64       9.03
Electro-mechanical Equipment                 5.02      41.10      46.12      16.47      44.66      61.12
High Voltage System                          0.41       3.85       4.26      0.12        6.12       6.24
Transmission System                          3.69       5.35       9.04      5.78        7.19      12.96
Engineering & Administ Overheads             4.64          -       4.64      13.29          -      13.29
Consulting Services                          2.53       3.43       5.96      3.40        4.30       7.71
Duties & Taxes                               9.92          -       9.92      4.12           -       4.12
Base Cost                                 81.88     77.76      159.64    133.60       99.04    232.65
Physical Contigencies                        4.09       3.88       7.97         -           -         -
Price Contingencies                           5.15      4.90       10.05        -           -
Total Cost                               91.12      86.54     177.66    133.61       99.04    232.65
a/   Totals may not agree due to rounding.
b/   Includes auxiliary equipment in the amount of US$2.96 million procured after loan closing.



-23-
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8B: Financing of EGAT's PDP, FY91-92
(US$ Million)
l         Planned                    Actual
loans Source          | Local J Foreign I Total   Local  Foreign I Total
Loans Outstanding         -        60.0      60.0    _         74.3    74.3
Proposed Loan                      54.0      54.0              16.7    16.7
Other Borrowings           752.0  1,397.0   2,149.0   594.3    608.6  1,202.9
EGAT                       670.0      -       670.0   935.1        -   935.1
Total                    1,422.0  1,511.0   2,933.0  1,529.4    699.6 2,229.0



-24-
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9A: Internal Economic Rate of Return for EGAT's
PDP (FY90-99)                                           (1994 Price)
Fiscal                 Cost Stream                   |             Benefit Stream    _                Net
Year Capital Cost  O&M Cost   Fuel Cost   Total Cost Incremnental Average Selling Price  Sale       Benefit
Energy Sale   (THB/kWh)          Revenue
(GWh)    Current   Constant
Price   1994 Price                  . _ __
1983
1984
1985        26.91                              26.91                                                     (25.91
1986       146.08                             146.08                                                    (146.08
1987     1,013.74                            1,013.74                                                ((1,013.74
1988     2,101.31                            2,101.31                                                 (2,10V31
1989    14,003.41                           14,003.41               1.2625    1.5843                 (14,003.41
1990    40,058.70      203.62     3,997.26  44,259.58      5,758    1.2594    1.4894     8,575.97    (35,683.61
1991    30,888.08      560.57     9,394.50  40,843.15     11,162    1.2553    1.4041    15,672.56    (25,170.59
1992    11,127.91     1,131.09    10,474.51   22,733.51   17,160    1.2168    1.3070    22,428.12 .   . .(3.39'
1993     7,452.69     1,582.08    12,884.16  21,918.93    22,947    1.1983    1.2642    29,009.60    .-,090.6T
1994    18,375.36     2,226.11    17,690.94  38,292.41    30,032    1.1976    1.1976    35,966.32     (2,326.09
1995    39,003.72     4,201.41    18,058.61   61,263.74  37,966    1.3413    1.2897     48,964.75    (12,298.99
1996    36,680.18     5,994.79    18,518.27   61,193.24  45,175    1.4363    1.3280     59,992.40   .(1200.84
1997    36,109.73     7,509.64    23,706.85  67,326.22    51,914    1.5334    1.3631    70,763.97   .  3,437.75
1998    22,757.59     8,253.45    24,337.48  55,348.52    58,862    1.5556    1.3297    78,268.80    .22,920.28
1999    10,354.46    11,522.01    18,155.21  40,031.68   66,063    1.6997    1.3970     92,290.01     52,258.33
2000                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2001                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2002                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22  66,063    1.6997    1.3970     92,290.01     62,612'79
2003                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22  66,063    1.6997    1.3970     92,290.01     82,612.79
2004                 11,522.01    18,155.21  29,677.22    66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2005                 11,522.01    18,155.21  29,677.22    66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2006                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2007                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22  66,063    1.6997    1.3970     92,290.01     62,612.79
2008                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01  . v62,612.79
2009                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2010                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2011                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22  66,063    1.6997    1.3970     92,290.01     62,612.79
2012                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22  66,063    1.6997    1.3970     92,290.01     62,612.79
2013                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01     62,612.79
2014                 11,522.01    18,155.21   29,677.22  66,063    1.6997    1.3970     92,290.01     62,612.79
2015   (60,062.04)   11,522.01    18,155.21  (30,384.82   66,063    1.6997    1.3970    92,290.01    122,674.83
Total 210,037.83  227,536.931 447,701.15 885,275.91       -    I                    1,938,572.68  1,053,296.77
P.V  1 275,186.15f  89,559.53!1 228.518.8  593,264.53      -                           834,79-.92   241,526.39
Economic Internal Rate of Return =              19.19 %
Notes: All Costs are based on 1994 price level.
Present value is calculated with 1994 base year



-25-
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9b: Equalizing Discount Rate for Pak Mun Hydropower Project
(All figures in Baht million unless otherwise stated) 1/
Pak Mun 4134 MW                               Gas Turbine 3x50 MW
Year      Capital    O & M       Total    Capital   O & M            Inc. Fuel (HFO)           Total       Net
Cost 2J     Cost    Benefits   Cost 2/    Cost      Mil Lt.   THBALt.    Total      Costs    Benefits
1988                                0.0                                                 0.0        0.0        0.0
1989          47.0                 47.0                                                 0.0        0.0      (47.0
1990         160.3                160.3                                                 0.0        0.0    (160.3
1991         483.1                483.1       0.5                                       0.0        0.5    (482.6
1992         461.5                461.5     241.7                                       0.0      241.7    (219.8
1993        2,669.1              2,669.1   1,634.4                                      0.0    1,634.4  (1,034.7
1994        1,055.4      59.2   1,114.6     573.5      68.6        9.3       2.96      27.5      669.6    (445.0
1995         865.3       59.2     924.5                68.6      108.7       3.05     331.5      400.1    (524.4
1996                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       3.14     341.5      410.1     350.9
1997                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       3.24     351.7      420.3     361.1
1998                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       3.33     362.3      430.9     371.7
1999                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       3.43     373.1      441.7      382.5
2000                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       3.54     384.3      452.9      393.7
2001                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      3.64     395.9      464.5      405.3
2002                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       3.75     407.7      476.3      417.1
2003                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      3.86     420.0      488.6      429.4
2004                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      3.98     432.6       501.2     442.0
2005                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      4.10     445.6       514.2     455.0
2006                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2007                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2008                     59.2       59.2               68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2009                     59.2       59.2               68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2010                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9       527.5     468.3
2011                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2012                     59.2      59.2      227.0     68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      754.5      695.3
2013                     59.2      59.2   1,503.0      68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9    2,030.5   1,971.3
2014                     59.2      59.2      396.0     68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      923.5      864.3
2015           14.7      59.2      73.9                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      453.6
2016            5.0      59.2      64.2        0.5     68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9       528.0     463.8
2017          132.4      59.2      191.6      14.7     68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9       542.2     350.6
2018          43.6       59.2     102.8      131.4     68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      658.9      556.1
2019          154.6      59.2     213.8      177.5     68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      705.0      491.2
2020                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2021                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2022           2.6       59.2      61.8                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      465.7
2023            3.0      59.2      62.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      465.3
2024           55.2      59.2      114.4               68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      413.1
2025         232.8       59.2     292.0                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      235.5
2026          34.3       59.2      93.5                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      434.0
2027           16.0      59.2      75.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      452.3
2028                     59.2      59.2                68.6       108.7      4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2029                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2030                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2031                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2032                     59.2      59.2     227.0      68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      754.5      695.3
2033                     59.2      59.2   1,503.0      68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9    2,030.5    1,971.3
2034                     59.2      59.2     396.0      68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      923.5      864.3
2035                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2036                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2037                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2038                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2039                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2040                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2041                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2042                     59.2      59.2                68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9      527.5      468.3
2043         (166.7)     59.2    (107.5)  (1,063.0)    68.6      108.7       4.22     458.9     (535.5)   (428.0)
1/ 1995 Price Level.                                                      Equalizing Discount Rate =       11.92%
2/ Capital cost includes HV switching and transmission system



THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9C: Internal Economic Rate of Return for Mae Moh Mine
Expansion Unit 8-9 (Stage 2)
Fiscal     Capital and O&M  Cost          Electricity   Lignite     Transfer    Value of      Total Benefit        Net Cash Flow
Year      Lignite  Power Plants   Total   Generated  Requirement    Price of    Electricity  Mine      Mine &      Mine      Mine &
Mine    & Trans.                                         Lignite    Generated    Alone   Power Plants   Alone   Power Plants
System                (GWh)       (M Ton)    (USD/Ton)    (c/kWh)
1985                  38.25      38.25                                                                                        -38.25
1986                  47.64       47.64                                                                                      -47.64
1987                 127.21     127.21                              26.39                                                    -127.21
1988                 158.84     158.84                              25.73                                                    -158.84
1989        9.40     196.95     206.35    525.00 d/     0.42 d/     27.03         6.27       11.35      30.28        1.96    -176.06
1990       30.09      51.94      82.02   3,300.00 d/    2.71 d/     27.02         5.42       73.22      164.55     43.13      82.53
1991       40.81      42.19      83.00   4,321.00 dl    3.67 d/     26.60         5.09       97.62     202.34      56.81     119.34
1992       38.36      17.30      55.67   4,353.00 d/    3.67 d/     25.28         4.74       92.78      189.83     54.42      134.16
1993       35.22      17.30      52.53   1,194.00 dl    1.65 d/     24.12         5.09       39.80      55.91       4.58       3.39
1994       38.71      17.30      56.01   2,066.00 d/    1.77 d/     23.71         4.70       41.96      89.33       3.25      33.32
1995       36.83      17.30      54.13   1,928.00 d/     1.74 dI   24.17         5.04       42.05      89.40       5.22      35.27
1996       51.16      17.30      68.47   4,205.00       3.29        24.58         5.16       80.87      199.62     29.70     131.15
1997       42.90      17.30      60.20  4,205.00        3.29        24.79         5.23       81.56     202.33      38.65      142.12
1998       42.55      17.30      59.85   4,205.00       3.29        25.04         4.82       82.38     186.47      39.83     126.61
1999       40.79      17.30      58.09   4,205.00       3.29        25.25         4.72       83.07     182.60      42.28     124.50
2000       40.79      17.30      58.09   4,205.00       3.29         25.46        4.26       83.75      164.80     42.96      106.71
2001       50.11      17.30      67.41   4,205.00       3.29         25.54        4.26       84.03      164.80     33.92      97.39
2002       43.78      17.30      61.08   4,205.00       3.29         25.63        4.26       84.30      164.80     40.52      103.72
2003       41.61      17.30      58.91   4,205.00       3.29         25.71        4.26       84.58      164.80     42.97      105.89
2004       47.94      17.30      65.25   4,205.00       3.29         25.84        4.26       84.99      164.80     37.04      99.55
2005       41.40      17.30      58.70   4,205.00       3.29         25.92        4.26       85.26      164.80     43.87      106.10
2006       42.31      17.30      59.61   4,205.00       3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     43.23      105.19
2007       42.88      17.30      60.19   4,205.00       3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     42.65      104.61
2008       42.88      17.30      60.19   4,205.00       3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     42.65      104.61
2009       39.20      17.30      56.51   4,205.00       3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     46.33      108.29
2010       45.44      17.30      62.75   4,205.00       3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     40.09      102.06
2011       48.72      17.30      66.02   4,205.00       3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     36.82      98.78
2012       38.46      17.30      55.77  4,205.00        3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     47.08      109.04
2013       37.69      17.30      55.00  4,205.00        3.29         26.00        4.26       85.54      164.80     47.85      109.81
@ P.V.
10% DR.                                       Net Present Value at 1994                                              470.03     327.82
Economic Internal Rate of Return                                      >150.00X      13.52%
Notes:  a/ Asumed station service lou 5% and transmission loss of 3%.
b/ All cost are baed on 1994 price level.
c Present value is calculated with 1994 base year.
d/ Actual Record
3a/43421:MINE29EI
2D-02-96



-27-
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Covenant     Orignal       Revised         Description of Covenant
Section         Type      Fulfillme    Fulfillm                                                  Comments
nt Date     ent Date
LOAN AGREEMENT
Section 5.01         F            A            -        (a)   Have accounts & financial    Complied every
(b)                                                           statements audited each        year.
fiscal year (FY).
Section 501          F            A            -        (b)   Furnish certified copies        Complied every
(b)                                                           of financial statements to   year.
the Bank 6 monchs after
end of each FY.
Section 502          F            A            -        (a)   Continue to operate each        Complied.
(a)                                                           of its lignite mining
operations as separate
accounting centers;
maintain separate accounts
and financial statements
for each operation.
Section 5.02         F            A            -       Continue to set lignite transfer   Complied every
(b)                                                    price for each operation              year.
according to methodology agreed
between Bank and EGAT.
Section 5.03         F            A            -       Maintain self-financing ratio          Complied every
(a)                                                    (SFR) of at least 25% for each         year.
FY.
Section 5.03         F            A            -       Review and inform the Bank             Complied.
(b)                                                    whether the Borrower will meet
the covenanted SFR for current
& following fiscal years.
Section 5.03         F            A            -       Maintain a provision for fuel          Complied.  Since
(b)                                                    adjustment cost in the tariff          June 1992 the
schedule.                             tariff structure
allowed adjustment
of sale price based
on changes in fuel,
taxes and demand
side management
costs.
Section 5.04         F            A            -        (a)   Shall not incur debt            Complied every
(a)                                                           greater than 1.5 times of    year.
capital plus surplus.
Section 5.04         F            A            -        (b)   Shall not incur short and    Complied every
(b)                                                           medium term debt exceeding   year.
15% or all debt.
Section 5.05         F            A            -        (i)   Mine Department shall not    Complied.
(a)                                                           incur debt greater than
1.5 times its capital plus
surplus.
Section 5.05         F            A            -        (ii)  Internal cash generation        Complied except in
(a)                                                           of Mine Department shall       FY95 when debt
not be less than 1.3 times   service coverage
the maximum debt  service.   ratio was at -0.03.



-28-
Agreement     Covenant    Orignal       Revised         Description of Covenant
Section        Type      Pulfillme   Fulfillm                                                Comments
nt Date    ent Date
Schedule SA        M,T        1/1992         -       A. SWVIIRiNfI'AL PROTKCTII9
(1) Mae Moh Mine Expansion
(a) Implement action plan to   Actions were taken
monitor & reduce            to reduce dust
atmospheric dust to         levels; however,
levels agreed with Bank.   dust levels at
times surpass
standards at some
locations. Further
control effort
being undertaken.
(b) Implement by October        Several measures
1992 a satisfactory plan   implemented to
to reduce SO2 levels in    reduce SO, levels
Mae Moh Valley.             following 1992
incident. Levels
still high at
times. FGDs have
been installed on
units 12 & 13, and
will be completed
for units 4 - 11.
(c) Complete acid rain &        Acid  rain study
plant ecology on high       completed &
terrain studies;            measures being
exchange views on           implemented with
findings with plans to      Bank support.
implement environmental    Plant ecology study
control measures.           being revised after
review by Borrower.
(d) Install real time air       Real-time air
quality monitoring          monitoring system
system to warn plant        based on a
operators on hazardous      dispersion model
metereological and          installed in 1994.
emission conditions.
(e) Implement satisfactory      Measures, including
action plan to monitor      installation of
and reduce water            wetlands,
pollution in Mae Moh        instituted in Mae
reservoirs.                 Moh. Water
pollution remains
high; however,
further control
effort being
studied.
(f) Continue mine               Reclamation effort
reclamation effort          continuing
satisfactory to Bank.       according to plans.
Tree planting
progressing as
required.
Cg) Carry out EIA studies       Expansion plans
prior to expansion of       shelved pending the
the Mae Moh-Lampang         solution of air
complex.                    quality problems in
Mae Moh.



-29-
Agreement      Covenant     Orignal      Revised          Description of Covenant
Section         Type      Fulfillme    Fulfillm                                                 Comments
nt Date     ent Date
(2) Pak Mun Hydropower
(a)  Implement plan for          Plan executed &
rehabilitation of            rehabilitation
construction site and        measures completed
access road.                 satisfactorily.
(b) Strengthen conservation    Conservation
of Kaeng Tana National       measures were fully
Park for 5 years .           implemented.
beginnning 1991.
(c)  Implement a fisheries       Fisheries
development plan             development plan
satisfactory to Bank.        being implemented
satisfactorily and
is to continue till
September 1997.
(d)  Implement plan              EGAT implemented a
satisfactory to Bank for   satisfactory health
prevention and control       services program.
of endemic diseases.         MOPH implementing a
program for
monitoring,
training &
prevention.
Implementation
tardy and is
unsatisfactory till
1995. Progress
unknown recently.
(e) Minimize run-off of          In full compliance.
construction wastes;
reclaim spoil areas in
timely manner; prevent
damage to archeological
sites; prevent damage to
agricultural and
resettlement areas.
(f) Furnish details to Bank    Complied.
on monitoring program of
Environmental Mitigation
Implementation Plan.
(3) Resettlement
Implement a plan,                 In compliance.  The
satisfatory to the Bank, for   Borrower exceeded
the resettlement &                the compensation
compensation of persons           levels and schemes
affected by the Pak Mun           agreed to with Bank
project, according to             at appraisal.
settlement and compensation
plans agreed to with the
Bank.
B. OTHRR
(1) (a) Appoint a board of           Complied.
experts to review design
and construction of Pak
Mun Dam.



-30-
Agreement      Covenant      Orignal      Revised         Description of Covenant
Section         Type      Fulfillme    Fulfillm                                                  Comments
nt Date     ent Date
(b) Employ experts in             Complied.
specilized fields such
as roller-compacted
concrete, bull turbines
and fish ladders.
GURANTEE AGREEMENT
Section 3.01         F            A                    Self-financing ratio (SFR) of          In Compliance.
(a)                                                    not less than 25% for the power
subsector.
Section 3.03         M            -                    Guarantor shall carry out Part B   Partial Compliance.
of the Project & shall discuss        Parts of
with the Bank findings and            strengthening
recommendations arising out of        program still being
the study under Part B.               executed.
Section 3.04         M            -                    Guarantor shall establish              Not complied yet.
standards for atmospheric
emissions from industries
Section 3.05         M            -                    Guarntor shall carry out               Training to be
training under   Part B.              implemented.
MINUTES OF NEGOTIATION
M            -                    Part  B  of the Project
1.  Strengthening Agencies: The       Complied partially
agencies to be provided           so far.  Training
technical assistance and          and technical
training will be: NEB, DIW,       assistance is to be
DMR & PWD.                        implemented.
M                                 2.  EGAT to make available for         Complied.
inspection to the public
documents on the EIA,
Environmental Mitigation
plan, and Resettlement Plan
for Pak Mun project.
F = Financial, M = Management, T = Technical.
A = Effective and fulfilled under previous loans.



-31-
TEIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
[                  Task                                 Input (Staff weeks)
Project Preparation                                           54.6
Cofinancing
Lending Development
Project Appraisal                                             24.8
Loan Negotiation                                              25.7
Project Supervision                                           43.7
Implementation Completion Report                              10.2
TOTAL                                                159



-32-
TEHRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of  |  Month/       Number   Days in         Specialized        Performance       Types of
project       year          of        field a/     staff skills          rating       problems c/
cycle          .e        persons                represented b/         status
Through Appraisal
6/90          1           3      PE                         1
7/90          2           3      EN, ECO                    1
10/90          7           6     PE, HPE, FA,                1
RS, ME, FS, HS
6/91          1           13     ME                         1
Supervision
3/92          1           3      HPE                        1                1
4/92          4           5      PE, HPE,EN,                1                1
FA, RS
7/92          4           6      PE, HPE, EN,               1                1
CON
5/93          6           11     PE, EN, FA,                1                2
FS, HS, RS
1/94          5           13     PE, HPE, RS,               1               2
FS, HS, FA
7/94          5           11     PE, HPE, RS,               1                2
7/94____   5______ _____ _ ___   HS, FS, FA
Completion
1   2/96           1          17     CON
/a     Includes time devoted to other operations in the country.
/b     PE = Power Engineer, HPE = Hydropower Engineer, EN = Enviromnental Engineer, ME = Mining Engineer, FA
= Financial Analyst, ECO = Economist, FS = Fisheries Specialist, HS = Health Specialist, RS = Resettlement
Specialist, CON = Consultant
/c      I = No. of minor problems, 2 = Procurement decision delays/progress, 3 = Disbursement, 4 = Project Management






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
APPENDIX A - MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE






-33-
Appendix A
Page 1 of 3
Wdrk Bank Mission, Feb 1ruary3toTer        l
].    A World Bankr  Mission comprising of Mr. Brahmn Prasher (consultant)
visited EGAT from February 13 to February 28, 1996 for a field completion
mission to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third
Power System Development Project (Loan 3423 - TH). The mission gratefully
acknowledges the excellent cooperation and hospitality provided to it by EGAT.
The mission has been favorably impressed with the level of assistance extended in
prviding the Bank with infirmnation on the technical, financial, enviromental,
implementation and operational aspects of the projects financed under Loan
3423-TH.
2.    EGAT and th; rA;ssion discussed the Borrwer's role in preparing its final
evaluation of the project implementation and operation experience, as required
under the Loan Agreement, including preparation of a suntmary report which is to
be included in the ICR. EGAT will transmit these reports upon completion within
a few weeks of the end of the present Bank mission. The Bank will oomplete the
draft ICR on this Loan within the next two months and transnit the draft to EGAT
for comment. The tentative main findings with respect to this ICR mission are as
folows.
A.   Mae Moh Mine Expansion (Stage 2)
3.    This component of the project has been completed satisfactorily, and the
implementation objectives have been substantially realized in temis  of the
production targets, costs and benefits. The mine is cuntly operating at levels
well beyond the targets anticipated with the completion of power units 8 and
9.   Environmental and meteorological monitoring   equipment planned for
acquisition and installation at Mae Moh under Bank Loans 3138-TH and 3423-TH
have for the most been procured and is beiri; effectively used for monitoring the
environment.
4.    The installation oi flue -as desulfurization devices (FGD) on power units 12
and 13 was completed in 1995. This has significantly curtailed the emission level
for sulfur dioxide from these two units by approximately 90 per cent. FGD's are
expected to be instaled on power units 1O and l1 by the end of 1996, and on units
8 an,d 9 shortly thereafter. EGAT plans to issue tenders for the installation of
FGD s on units 4 to 7 by mid-1996. With completion of installation of a realtime
air quaity monitoring network and measures to curb overall generation capacity
during the cool season in conjunction with the use of higher quality low sulfur
lignite, EGAT has been able to avoid the recurrence of air pollution incidents
similar to the 1992 incident
5.    Water quality downstrean at Mae Moh has  not shown   significant
improvement during implementation of this project with respect to conductivity,
total solid and sulphate content levels. Some recent data available firm the three
wetlands being used to process water from  the settling    ponds show some
mitigation capabilities with respect to total dissolved solid content ; however,
sulphate ion content does not appear to show any improvement effects. EGAT
will intensify further effort to attempt to imprve water quality at Mae Moh.



-34-
Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
B.    Pak MunrLydropoweEr'rQject
6.    The imple,nmenlation of the Pak Mun projecl is essentially complete with
respect to EGAT s role, and project objectives with respect to the generation and
irrigaiion aspects are being realized. For the first year of operation (Octoberl994
to September 1995) for which generation data is available, the Pak Mun dam
generaled a total of 216 Gwh of electnicity. It is expected that the dam will
achieve its annual generation target of 281 Gwh in subsequent years.
7.    With regard to the resettlemnent and compensation  issues for displaced
villagers, monitonng of health and provision of health services for villagers affected
by the dam project, construction of mad and bridge facilities around the dam
project, and other related activities specified during appraisal of the project, EGAT
has substantially complied with the requirements and met the objectives intended
for the projecL EGAT has provided compensation to 2,932 households which
were impacted with respect to their fishing income, according to a finding by a
Government Committee. Three thousand additional claims have to be reviewed by
the Committee before compensation claims can be resolved.
8.    The miision and EGAT discussed future operations, of the components
implemented under this Loan, and agreed that benefits can best be maximized and
assessed by monitoring performance and other indicators being currently used
witliin EGAT for each component project. With regard to the envirnmental
quality and inpact mitigation actions  required for each of the projects, the
operational plan in future will include the items outlined in the Attachment
.3 y4.,&
Boonshai Jiwalai                               Brahm D. Prasher
Deputy Governor-Mining                         Consultant
Electricity Generating                         East Asia & Pacific Region
Authority of Thailand                          World Bank
EGAT has subsequently asked for substitution of para. 5 as under:
To improve the water quality management, EGAT has increased the frequency of water
sampling and analysis. In addition, EGAT also put the automatic water quality and quantity sensors to
collect the data for 24 hours. Some recent data available from the two wetlands being used to process
water from the settling ponds shows some mitigation capabilities with respect to total dissolved solid
content. EGAT plans to control the operation of wetland in June 1996 and will intensify further effort
to attempt to improve water quality at Mae Moh.



-35-                               Appendix A
Attachment Page 3 of 3
oirntiv suLPliaD-fuL  Third-Power-SystemU DeJeyQpment
prWe.ct JLnJA42IlJ1Ii
A.   Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project
- Continue monitoring air quality regularly and frequently at the mine and
power complex, worker residential areas, and surmunding villages  at Mae Moh
until all FGD s are installed on power units to adequately suppress SOx levels.
- Continue and effectively use watering and other measures in mining
operations to contrl TSP levels at the mine pit and surrounding areas. Monitor
contractor mining, overburden removal, and dumping practices to reduce dust
levels.
- Prior to completion of the instalation of FGD s on a majority of the
power units, continue stocking and effective blending practices to ensure use of
low sulfur lignite during unfavorable weather conditions in the cool seasorL
- Continue the practice of reducing electricity output at Mae Moh during
adverse meteorological conditions in the cool season, wben SOx levels are likely
to exceed air quality standards. Continue to schedule plant maintenance work
during the cool season when unfavorable meteoxological conditions exist
- Monitor the physical and chemnical conposition of water streams and
bodies at the Mae Moh complex, and downstream in the valley.
- Intensify effort to analyze, develop an understanding, and mitigate the
water quality problem at Mae Moh. Monitor te input and output quAlity of the
waters in the wetlands to assess the effectiveness of wetlands for removal of
sulphate and other soluble species.
- Identify more funding for procuring an automatic eady warning system
to wam power plant operators and EGAT Headquarters vith respect to hazardous
air quality situations.
B.   Pak Mun Project
-  Continue providing medical and other related services to resettled
villagers, according to plans specified during the mid-temi review.
- Periodically continue to engage the services of an independent social
science agency to assess the economic and social conditions of villagers whAo were
resettled.
- Monitor the results of the Fisheries Development Componen of the
project being implemented by the Department of Fisheries, and provide the Bank
with information, when requested, on the accomplishments  of the prgram
- Monitor the data, results and accomplishments of the Health Mitigation
Plan, as being implemented and reported by the Ministry of Public Healdt
Provide information periodically to the Bank on the accomplishments of the plan






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
APPENDIX B - BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO REPORT






-36-                                   Appendix B
-36-                         i~~~~~~~age 1lof 8
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
NONTHABURI, THAILAND
CABLE: EGAT NONTHA8URI
TELEX: 82711 EGAT TH
NO. EGAT 51502/                    t                March 2e , 1996
Mr. Darayes Mehta
Principal Power Engineer, Infrastructure Operations Division
Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region
lntemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Sir,
Re : Implementation Completion Report for the Third Power
System Development ProjecL (Loan No.3423-TI-)
Sub  Summary Report
As requested, we are pleased to submit herewith the Summarv Reports of
the projects financed from Loan No. 3423TH to be appended in the Implementation
C-ompletion Report for the Third Power System Development Project. These reports
are prepared in two parts, * Pak Mun Hydro Electric Project and Mae Moh Mine
Expansion Project for Power Plant Units 8 and 9, Stage 2.
Please let us know should any information or clarification is required.
With best regards.
Yours sincerely,
(C-hamlong Uchukomol)
Assistant Govemor,MIne Oreration
Mine Central Services Office
Tel. 436-5076
Fax. 436-4675
Encl Summary reports: 7 pages
CC  Mr. Brahm Prasher



-37-                                  Appendix B
Page 2 of 8
SUMMARY REPORT
LOAN NO. 3423TH
FOR MAE MOH MINE EXPANSION PROJECT FOR
POWER PLANT UNITS 8 & 9, STAGE 2
AND PAK MUN HYDRO ELECTRIC PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
As rapid economic growth in Thailand had been accompanied by increasing
energy consumption, commercial energy demand grew at an average rate of 5.5%
between 1979 and 1989. It was indicated that electricity consumption had increased
faster than energy consumption as a whole, averaging 14% per annum for the last
three years. For "his reason, the Third Power System Development Project was
included in EGAT s Power Development Plan (PDP) to assure that electricity
capacity met the demand growth. The Project was comprised of two subprojects,
i.e., the Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project and the Pak Mun Hydro Electric
Project.
Following the IBRD Mission's appraisal of EGAT's Third Power System
Development Project in October 1990, Loan No.3423TH was agreed to be
provided by the Bank in an amount of US$ 54.0 million ; US$ 30.0 million
provided for the Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project for Power Plant Units 8 and 9,
Stage 2 and US$ 24.0 million for the Pak Mun Hydro Electric Project. The Loan
Agreement was signed on January 8, 1992 based on the objectives to assist EGAT
in optiniizing its investment decisions and help meet the growth in power demand
over the medium term at least cost and to enhance the environmental capabilities of
the power and mining sectors.



-38-                      ~~~~~~Appendix B
Page 3 of 8
MAE MOH MINE EXPANSION PROJECT FOR POWER PLANT
UNITS 8 AND 9, STAGE 2
1.    PROE;CT BACKGROUN              A fIECIVE
The Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project for Power Plant Units 8 and 9,
Stage 2 was a subproject to the EGAT s Third Power System Development Project
It was approved by the Cabinet in the same package and with the same objective
as the Project, Stage 1 on December 29, 1987. The total estimated cost for the two
stage implementation was approved at  6,723.77 million baht of which 2,194.36
million baht allocated for the Stage 2 Project
The Mine Expansion Project, Stage 2 covering the period 1992 - 1996 was
established with on objective to assure a firm lignite production of 9.5 million
tonnes per year for the nine thermal power units at 1,425 MW total generating
capacity at Mae Moh. Major components of the Project intended to be financed
from IBRD loan proceeds included supply and installation for the first lignite
coveyor system extension, the procurement of auxilliary equipment, and necessary
environmental equipment to  strengthen  the capabilities to cope with  the
environmental and ecological impacts associated with mining activities.
2.    PROJICT DES-CIPTION
The Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project for the Power Units 8 and 9, Stage 2
was established to increase the lignite production upto 9.5 million tonnes per year
for supply to the nine power stations to generate 1,425 MW electricity.
In implementation, EGAT had requested loan in an amount of US$ 54.0
million from the World Bank under the Loan Agreement No. 3423TH for the Third
Power System Development Project; US$ 30.0 million was agreed to be utilized for
procurement of mine and environmental  equiprnentfmstruments in various
currencies for the mine expansion and US$ 24.0 million for civil works associated
with hydro power plant construction at Pak Mun.
During the project period, the overburden removal in the North East pit of
244.5 million cubic meters was planned to be contracted out wholy funded by
EGAT while the entire lignite excavation to be undertaken by EGAT s own effort.
In this connection, the environmental monitoring network was intended to be
imnproved for environmental performance efficiency.
8.    IMPLEMENTATIfN
The Mae Moh Mine Expansion Project could be regarded successfully
implemented especially in terms of the production targets and schedules. The mine
was capable to increase lignite production to supply to the nine power stations as
required and the long term overburden removal contract of 244.5 million cubic
meters was efficiently performed by the private Contractor. The strategy to contract
out such a vast volume of overburden had reduced considerable investment cost
on major equipment for mine expansion.



-39-                               Appendix B
Page 4 of 8
Regarding the procurement of equipment funded from Loan No. 3423TH to
support the mine expansion of the Stage 2 Project, the supply as well as installation
of the first lignite conveyor extension equipment were carried out in accordance
with the schedule. Other equipment having been approved to be purchased from
loan proceeds was mostly delivered and put into operation as scheduled except for
a few items agreed to be disbursed from the loan balance but finally funded by
EGAT totalling US$ 2.963 million due to the loan closing in March 1995. All
environmental equipment had been in use and contributed to the environmental
monitoring network within the power plant and mining project areas.
4.    RESULTS
Based on the Loan Agreement No. 3423TH, the Mae Moh Mine Expansion
Project to meet the fuel requirement of the nine power stations  was completed
satisfactorily. The technically and financially sound management as well as
harmonious cooperation among parties concerned, i.e., the Bank, Government
agencies, consultants, contractors, and EGAT staff obviously resulted in
achievement of the project in compliance with the Loan Agreement and financial
covenants.
In addition to the increasing electricity supply to serve the ever rising needs
as planned for the Third Power System Development Project, the Mining Sector
also gained a more sophisticated project planning and management experience
which regarded useful for future mine expansion at larger scale.
The overall satisfactory result of the major as well as related mine activities
under the Project, Stage 2 should be accredited to the Bank Mission, the
Government agencies  the independent consultants, and consultants under the
Australian aided program, for their valuable recommendations and good cooperation
which greatly contributed to the efficient and effective carrying out of the project
5.    LESSONS LEARNED
During the project period, EGAT experienced certain procurement lessons
which positively as well as negatively effected the management Namely, the cost
of import duties and taxes for the first lignite conveyor extension equipment was
saved by a significant amount due to declaration of the project to be a turnkey
construction project Before the project commencement 30 - 40 per cent of the
total equipment expenses was estimated for import duties and taxes (excluding
VAT) based on the supply contract for equipment but only 5 per cent was spent
when the first lignite conveyor extension project had been affirmed as construction
work.   Consequendy, the actual duties and taxes were levied in an amount of
US$ 3.85 million instead of US$ 8.0 million which is much lower than budget
Regarding negative lessons learned, the  problems during   procurement
process of some equipment items also caused delay and additional workforce
particularly  items  for mine  specific  purposes.  Sometimes there were no
authorized distributors or representatives of such items in Thailand to assist in
information provision for decision making during the procurement process so
extended time for certain steps was unavoidable. Besides, the specific designs and
mamufacturing of these items was more time consuming than expected and thus
effected the delivery schedule.



-40-                               Appendix B
Page 5 of 8
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAK MUN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT UNITS 1-4
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Mun River, the most important river of Thailand's northeastem region, flows
from the west to the east. The Mun River has catchment area of 117,000 sq km or
about 700/o of the overall area of the northeastem region. Rainfall of the basin
drains into the Mun River before finally discharging into the Mekong River. Annual
runoff of the river is about 24,000 MCM or 760 cms.
Due to this enormous quantity of water, the National Energy Authority
(NEA) had initiated the development of this water resource. With cooperation from
the Govemment of France, preliminary survey through feasibility study of the
project had been concluded in 1970, and the damsite was selected at Kaeng Tana.
In May 1979, the project had been transferred to the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT) to continue further study, and the result confirmed
that the project implementation was still probable. However, according to ecological
and environmental studies which were fulfilled in January 1982, it was found that
approximately 4,000 households would have had to be relocated due to the
impoundment of the reservoir. Consequently, the project has been temporarily
shelved.
Until in 1985, EGAT had reviewed the project and investigated the site
once more, and this time determined to move the project location upstream by 1.5
km; lowered the retention level of the reservoir so that the Kaeng Tana, which is an
important part of the national park, would not be flooded.  This also has
substantially reduced the number of resettlers.
For the Pak Mun Hydroelectric Project, ecological and environmental studies
had also been conducted in parallel with an engineering study; this, therfore,
resulting in much more useful information to protect design modification which
substantially reduced the impact on community and environment.  In addition,
several counter measures were suggested to cope with individual aspect of the
project such as resettlement, fishery, public health, communicable diseases etc.



-41-                             Appendix B
Page 6 of 8
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
Currently, demand for electricity in the northeast is double the existing
production capacity. The demand for power is increasing every year as a result of
economic expansion. Electricity used in the region is transmitted from the central
and northern regions of the country as well as being purchased from Laos.
Electricity supplies in the northeast are consequently unstable.  Problem in the
electricity transmission system causes lengthy black-outs, since power is generated
hundreds of kilometers away in other parts of the country.
To solve this problem, it is necessary to build power plants in the northeast,
at the point of consumption, therefore, 4I'e Hydroelectric Power Plant of the Pak
Mun Dam Project was put into EGA.T's electricity develcpment plan under the Sixth
National Economic and Social Developme:t iPlan (1987-1991).  The Cabinet
approved construction of the project on May 15, 1990. The project construction
budget approved by the Cabinet amounts to THIB 3,880 million. This figure was
increased, in August 1991, to THB 6,600 million because of increases in
expenditure brought on by economic situations, both locally and overseas. The
increased budget was considered and approved by the committee of the Office of the
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) on August 27, 1991.



-42-                              Appendix B
Page 7 of 8
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The Pak Mun Project was first implemented in June 1990, right after the
cabinet approved the project. The project mainly divided into 2 categories i.e.
construction and environmental works.  Most of construction work (except
preparatory works) was implemented on contract basis, assisted by SOGREAH and
TEAM CONSULTING as the consultant. Environmental work was implemented by
EGAT, in collaborated with others concemed govemment agencies under the close
supervision of The Committee for Provision of Assistance to Affected People by
Implementation of Pak Mun Project which was appointed by the Prime Minister.
The Project's significant works comprise:
1. Civil Works:  Compose diversion work, construction of cofferdams,
RCC. closuredam, spillway, powerhouse etc. Work started in May 1990 by
construction of cofferdam  phase 1 and river diversion.  The civil works was
completed in April 1994 as planned.
2. Electro-mechanical Equipment: Work involved mainly on supply and
installation of 4 x 34 MW, bulb type, generating units. Installation work was
started from the Unit #1 in February 1993 until completed by Unit #4 in October
1994 and all units can be synevonized into EGAT power system since October
1994 as scheduled.
3. Compensation and Resettlement: All works have been done under the
closely supervision of the committees set up by the Govemment. The project has
been widely monitored by local public and abroad. The affected villager can recieve
high compensation and so many choices of resettlement.
4. Environmental Impact Mitigation: All items have successfully excecuted
with the full support from all involved departments. There are 2 public-interesting
items that should be mentioned of:
4.1 Fishery Development Plan: The Pak Mun's fish ladder has proved itself
workable. It was found that numerous kinds of fish have migrated over the ladder,
particularly during rainy season.  Began in 1994, EGAT and Department of
Fisheries have gradually released an amount of 5 million fingerlings (11 different
species) and 7 nillion young prawns in the Mun River, upstream of Pak Mun Dam.
According to the data gathered at the end of 1995, an accumulated weight of
52,000 kilograms of tfsh and 15,000 kilograms of pawns have been caught from
upstream of Pak Mun Dam. It was also planned to release about 10 million of
fingerlings and young pawns, this year.
4.2 Communicable Diseases: Many studies and examinations have been
gradually conducted for the past 3 years by both EGAT's Medical & Health Office
and Ministry of Public Health at all surrounding villages. The results still shows that
neither snails, the carriers of Schistosomiasis Disease nor people infected with this
disease have been found, so far (the examinations found that number of villagers
have been infected with various parasitic diseases but none of them have something
associated with Schistosomiasis disease).



-43-                            Appendix B
Page 8 of 8
4. LESSON LEARNED
This project is a good example of development and environment. It is an
interesting issue worldwide. To develop future project, we should have clear picture
of development, environment and the people need.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
APPENDIX C - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES






Appendix C
-44-                                   Page  I or 14
A. EGAT'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1.         The Borrower's financial performance during the five year interval FY91-95 has been
satisfactory.  During this period kWh energy sales increased by 62%  to 72,800 GWh in FY95,
compared to an appraisal estimate increase of 42% to 65,300 GWh. However, operating revenue in the
period increased only by 68% to Baht 94.5 billion, compared to an appraisal estimate increase of 78%
to Baht 119.3 billion. The lower relative revenue realized was primarily accounted for by a lower per
kWh sales revenue. During the five year period, the average per kWh sales revenue increased from
Baht 1.26 to Baht 1.31, against an appraisal estimate increase of from Baht 1.44 to Baht 1.82. Energy
sales to PEA during the period increased strongly yielding an adverse sales mixed variance. In FY92,
sales to Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) accounted for 47% of total sales at 0.99 stangs/kWh
(compared to MEA's of 41% at 1.46 stangs/kWh). In FY93, while the percentage of sales to PEA
increased to 48%, the sale price dropped to 0.96 stangs/kWh (compared to Metropolitan Electricity
Authority's (MEA's) 40% at 1.46 stangs/kWh). In FY94, PEA's share increased to 49% with no
corresponding increase in sales price while MEA maintained its 40% share but increased its sales price
to 1.47 stangs/kWh. The lower sales price to PEA coupled with increasing rate of demand which has
surpassed MEA's for several past years resulted in a decrease in the average selling price and
consequently, slower growth of EGAT's sales revenue.
2.         During the period, the tariff structure has been adjusted twice in line with the three year
tariff setting agreement. The first took effect in FY92 when the Govermnent agreed to a tariff structure
allowing EGAT to make sales price adjustments if there were increases in its cost as a result of the
value added tax (VAT) and fuel prices. The second took effect from January 1995 which affected the
selling prices to MEA and PEA but did not affect end user prices. The concept underpinning the tariff
structure continue to be that EGAT, MEA and PEA should all achieve rates of return of 8% per
annum, but in reality PEA had made returns of approximately 14%. As a result, the PEA price was
increased to 1.09 stangs/kWh, while the price to MEA was increased only to 1.49 stangs/kWh. In
FY95, PEA's share of EGAT's electricity sales amounted to 51 % while MEA's share was 41 %.
3.         EGAT's financial performance during the period was strong and satisfactory. Despite
EGAT's net income being significantly lower each year than estimates made at appraisal, it generated
sufficient funds internally to self-finance an average of 34% of its capital investment program which
compares very favorably against appraisal average of 25%. The Self Financing Ratio (SFR) each year
during this interval exceeded the covenanted value of 25 %, ranging in the period between a low of 28%
in FY92 and a high of 38% for FY91 and FY95. This performance was accomplished despite the
significant increase in EGAT's overall remittances to the Government in order to qualify as a "Good
State Enterprise". The debt to debt plus equity ratio during the period averaged about 44% compared
to the appraisal average estimate of 48 %. This ratio was also significantly below the covenanted annual
maximum of 60%.
4.         EGAT's rate of return (ROR) during the period averaged 6.6%, which was significantly
lower than the appraisal average of 11.7% for the period. Accounting for this was the slower sales
growth realized for the period, and increased Government remittances of from 15% to 20% in FY92
and from 20% to 30% in FY94, resulting in a significant reduction to operating income. The average
operating ratio for the period was 83%, and was higher than the appraisal average of 77% for the five
year interval. Two expense items contributed to this unfavorable comparison. Depreciation expenses
and Government remittances were significantly higher in the period than those estimated at appraisal.
The current ratio for the five year interval averaged 0.76, and was half the estimated appraisal ratio for
the period, due to a substantial increase in payables and current maturities.



-45-                                    Appendix C
Page 2 of 14
5.          Overall, EGAT's financial position has been strong, since its debt load has been low and
it is able to internally finance a significant portion of its power development and transmission system
expansion programs. EGAT has been in full compliance with all Bank covenants in FY91-95 and for
the years prior to the appraisal of the loan.



-46-                                                   Appendix C
Page 3 of 14
THALAND
ThIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGATS Past Financial Performance
Summary ofEGATs Financial Statwemnts 1991-1995
(Million Baht)
1991              1992                1993               1994               1995
SAR     Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR   I Actual
Energy sales (GWh)                               46,102   44,773   50,620   50,771    55.294    56,558   60,290   63,643   65,283   72,779
Average revenue (Baht/kWh)                         1.44     1.26      1.44     1.22      1.44      1.20     1.61      1.20      1.82     1.31
Operating revenues                               66,897    57,216   73,390    62,702    80,383    68,463   97,837   76,855   119,269   96,449
Operating expenses                               51,067   46,815   54,946   51,333    64,482    57,619   77350    64,690    90,881    78,991
Operating income                                 15,830   10.401    18,444    11,369    15,901    10,844   20,487    12,165    28,388    17,458
Net income                                        9,288    5,562    11,193    5,329     8,697     3,492    11,301   4,215    16,036    8,070
Rate base                                       111,912  139,255  135,594   156,068   170,376   177,520  207,167   192,517  247,670  210,721
Long - Term Debt Net                             95,617   90,269   113,563   99,461   140,058   117,237   168,898   126,126   188,909   131,327
Primary Ratios:
Ralc of Return (%)                                 14.1      6.7      13.6      6.7       9.3       5.7      9.9       6.0      11.5      7.7
Debt service coverage                               1.6      2.1       1.8      2.1       1.6       1.7      1.5       1.9       1.4      1.8
Operating ratio                                     76        82       75        82       80        84       79        84        76       82
Current ratio                                       1.4      1.0       1.6      0.8       1.5       0.7      1.5       0.5      1.6       0.8
Debt as % of Dcbt and Equriv                        45        41       46        41       48        45        49       47        48        44
Self - financing ratio (%) (3 - year average)      25%      38%      31%       28%       25%      36%       25%      30%       25%       38%



-47-                                                   Appendix  C
Page 4 of 14
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGATS Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1991-1995, Income Statement
(Milion Baht)
1991              1992               1993               1994               1995
SAR     Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual
Energy Sale (GWh)                               46,102   44,773   50,620   50,771    55,294   56,558   60,290   63,643   65,283    72,779
Sales Increase (%)                               17.1%    13.7%)    9.8%     13.4%     9.2%     11.4%     9.0%     12.5%     8.3%     14.4%
Average Energy Price (B/kWh)                      1.44      1.26     1.44     1.22      1.44     1.20      1.61     1.20     1I.2      1.31
Price Increase (%)                               14.8%    -0.3%     0.0%     -3.1%     0.3%     -1.5%    11.8%    -0.1%     12.7%     9.4%
Operating Revenue
Energy Revenue                               66,156   56,185   72,640   61,860   79,623   67,798   97,067   76,190   118,489   95,247
Other Operating Revenue                         740    1,031       750      842       760      665      770       665      780      1,202
Total                                      66,897   57,216   73,390   62,702   80,383   68,463   97,837   76,855   119,2691  96,449
Operating Expenses
Fuel and Purchased Power                      35,762   30,499   36,347    32,448   44,214   35,143   53,709   40,950   62,780   50,757
Operation & Maintenance                       7,395    7,382    8,940    8,488      9,435     9,785    10,626    10,656    12,165    12,242
Depreciation 1/                                5,942    7,387    7,243    8,117    8,749    9,712    10,360    9,554    12,233      9,973
Remittance to Government                       1,968    1,5471    2.416    2,280    2,084     2,979    2.655    3,530     3,703     6.019
Total Operating Expenses                   51,0671  46,815   54,946   51,333   64,482   57,619   77,350   64,690   90,8811  78,991
Operating Income                           15,830   10,401    18,444    11,369    15,901    10,844   20,487    12,165   28,388    17,458
Nonoperating Expenses
Interest Charged to Operations                5,074    4,288     5,922    4,584     7,274     6,048    9,496    6,422    12,862    6,894
Loss on Exchange                               2,455    3,590    2,313    2,110     1,269    2,157    1,147    2,504       894     5,250
Bonus & Remittance - Mining                       0      352         0      288         0      560         0      729        0       492
Revenue From Associated Company                   0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0    -1,554
Profit From Seling Power Plant                    0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0      -570
Mining Income                                  -988   -1,3931    -985      -942    -1,339    -1.413   -1.458   -1,705    -1,404    -1,124
Total Nonoperating Expenses                 6,541    4,839    7,250    6,040     7,204    7,352    9,185      7,950    12,352    9,388
Net Income                                  9,288    5,562  _    9      5,329    8.f97     3,492   11.301    4,215    16.36    8,070
Average Rate Base - Power                     111,912  139,>55  135,594  '56B,O68  170,376 177,620  207,167  192,517 247,670  210,721
Rate of Rdurn (%)                              141%       6.7%    1.6%      6 .7%     9.3S%     .7%      9.9%     6.0%    11.5%      7.7%
Operating Ratio (%)                              76%      82%      75%       82%      80%       84%      79%      84%       76%      82%
1/ Revalued Depreciation
SOURCE: EGAT



Appendix  C
Page 5 of 14
TnIAIAND
THiRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECiArs Past Financial Perfomiance
Financial Statements 1991-1995, Sources and Application of Funids
(Million Baht)
1992              1992               1993              1994               1995
SAR     Actual    SAR     Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR     Actual
Sources of Funds
Intemal Cash Generation
Operating income                             15,830   10,401   18,444    11,369    15,901   10.844   20,487    12,165   28,388   17,458
Add:
Olher Items not Involving Cash                  0    3,341        0    3,797         0    3,456        0    4,118         0    3,920
Depreciation                                5,942    7,387    7.243    8,117    8,749    9,72    10,360    9,554    12,233    9,973
Mining Income                                 988    1.391      985      942   1,339    1.413    1.458    1,705    1.404    1,124
Total Internal Sources                    22,760   22,520   26,672   24,225   25,989   25,425   32,305   27.542   42,025   32,475
Noncash Items                                   1,130        0      384        0       -92        0       -57        0     -938        0
Capital Contribution                                       125               255                218                227               247
Sale of Power Plant                                          0                 0                  0                  0             17,182
Increase in Long - Term Debt               29,497   27,426   27,062    17,916   38,309   24,135   46,479   24.742   39,527    16,276
Less Refinancing                                0    -6,984       0    -6,155        0                 0    -3,991        0    -4,398
Total Borrowings                               29,497   20,442   27,062   11,761    38,309   24,135   46,479   20,751    39,527    11,878
Other Items (Net)                                   0      122        0      -326        0      286        0    -1,173        0    2,493
Total Sources of Funds                    53.386   43,209   54,118   35,915   64,206   50,064   78,727   47,347   80,614   64,275
Application or Funds
Capital Investment
Capital Expenditure - Power                  34,472   30.426   30,440   21,984   37,421   30,303   39,856   25,230   35,048   28,059
Interest During Construction                  2.166    1.472    3.109    1.843    3.598    1,483    4,875    2,366    5,218    2,533
Total Capital Investment - Power          36,638   31,898   33,549   23.827   41,019   31,786   44,731   27,596   40,266   30,592
Capital Expenditures - Mining                 1,328    1,614    2,809    2,628     1,444    3.430    1.899    3,402    2,072    3,766
Total Capital Investment                  37.966   33,512   35,358   26,455   42,463   35,216   46,630   30,998   42,338   34,358
Net Sinking Funds for Redemption & Note                 -1,151               885               1,063               370               -668
Debt Service
Interest                                      5,074    4.288    5,922    4,584    7,274    6,048    9,496    6,422   12,862    6,894
Principal                                     8,624   13,367    8,925   12,859    9,116    8,853   11,814   12,110   17,639   15,555
Less Refinancing                                      -6.984             -6.155                0              -3,991             4,398
Total Debt Service                         13.698   10,671   14,847    21,288    16,390   14,901   21,310   14,541    30.501    18,051
Investment in Associated Company                                              100                                1,820          ,    593
Stockpile for Future Use                                                                                           253               271
Reafforestation                                                                                                                      188
Increase in Deferred Liabilities                   87        8       70       51         0       10        0       40         0       17
Increase in Non - cash Working Capital          474      -853     -133     1.847     -892   -1,460     -117    1,665       715    3,545
Increase in Cash                               1,161    1,021    3,975   -4,710    6,246       335   10,904   -2,338    7,060    7,922
Increase in Total Working Capital               1.635      168    3.842   -2.863    5,353   -1.125   10.7871    -673    7,775    11,466
Total Application of Funds                53.3R6   43.208   54. 228   35.916    4.      50,065   78.727   47.349       14       276
Debt Service coverage                            1.6      21        1.8      21       1.t1      1.7      1.5      1.9      1.4       1.8
S Years Average Investment                    s4.020  27,890   38.598   29,108   41.484   27,672   4S.810   29,967   48,098   85,994
Self. lin,ancing Ratio (8 Yrs. Avg.) (%)        25%      88%      8.1%     28%       25% jS6%          256*     30%       256 I88%



-49-                                                       Appendix C
Page 6 of 14
TnAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EGATS Past Financial Perfornanice
Financial Statements 1991-1995, Balance Sheet
(MiLion Baht)
1991              1992               1993              1994               1995
SAR     Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR     Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual
Fixed Assets- Power
Plant in Service                            192,032  224.873  233,514  260,526  281,758  283,340  333,225  303,238  393,392  344,332
Less: Accumulated Depreiation               71,112   79.720   81.247   93.542   93,274   95.284  107,375  106.260  123,901   119,869
Net Operating Plant                       120,920  145,154  152,267  166,984   188,484  188,055  225,850  196,978  269,490  224,463
Work in Progress                              52.907   41,765   55,532   46.288   61,148   36,817   69.342   49.600   67,105   33,739
Total Fixed Assets - Power               173,827  186,919  207,799  213,272  249,633  224.,872  295,192  246,578  336,595  258,202
Total Fixed Assets - Irigation/Mine            13,995   10,754   15,370   10,490   16,849   11,087   18,764   11,999   21,729   13,982
Net Assets Sinking Fund                         3,700    7,470    4,296    8,790    4,957    10,430    5,773    5,389    6,625    5,948
Other Assets                                               361               455                449              8,398             10,203
Current Asets
Cash                                       15,035    7,074    19,010    2,363   25,256    2,697   36,160      359   43,220    8,281
Receivables                                10,997    8,820   12,064   10,510   13,214    9,107   16,083   11,486   19,606   16,920
Inventories                                4,313    2.89'    3,978    3,036    4,615    4,376    5,315    5,465    6,222    5,136
Total Current Assets                     30,345   18,793   35,052   15,909   43,085   16,180   57,557   17,310   69,048   30,337
Defered foreign exchange adjustmnent            8.179L   10.978    5,866   13,630    4,597    14,125    3,450   14,674    2,556    9.570
Total Assets                           230,0451 235,275  268,383  262,546  319,121  277,143  380,737  304,349  436,5531 328,243
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
Paid -in capital                              8,536    8,601    8,536    9,195     8,536    9,310    8,536    9,465    8,536    9,662
Irrigation - Contribution                    4,773    3,685    4,704    3,625    4,628    3,669    4,548    3,658    4,468       3,632
Retained Eaznings                            46,060   60,177   57,254   69,460   65,951    75,472   77,252   80,948   93,288   92,205
Revaluation Surplus                         49,780   48,989   57,464   55,857   67,047   42,292   78,276   44,578   91,680   49,367
Total Equity                              109,149  121,452  127,958  138,137  146,162  130,743  168,612  138,649  197,972  154,866
Long. Term Debt
Long - Term Debt                            104,542   96,600  122,679  107,497  151,872  125,974  186,537  142,325  208,425  144,716
Lens: Curent Maturities                       8.925    6,331    9.116    8.036    11.814    8,737   17,639   16.199    19,516   13.389
Long - Term Debt - Net                    95,617   90,269  113,563   99,461  140,058   117,237  168,898  126,126  188,909  131,327
Sinking Fund                                    3,700    4,001    4,296    4,436    4,957    4,917    5,773    5,389    6,625    5,948
Deferred Liabilities                              70       178        0      127         0      117        0       77         0       60
Consunmer Contribution                                                        85                 83                102               113
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                             10,789   11,674    11,322   10,758   13,412   13,294   16,084   15,366    18,736   20,208
Current Maturities                           8,925    6,331     9,116    8,036    11,814    8,737   17,639   16,199    19,516   13,389
Accrued Interest on Long  ermn Debt           1.795    1,371    2,128    1.506    2.717    2.015    3.731    2,442    4,794    2,332
Toul Current Liabilities                 21,509   19,375   22,566|  20,300   27,943   24,046   37,454   34,006   43,0461  35,929
Total Equity and Liabilities            230,045  235,275  268,3831 262,546  319,1211 277,143  380,737  304,349  436,5531  328,24
Debt as 5 of Total Cepital                      45%      41%      4e%      41%      48%       45%      49%      47%       48%      44%
Long - Term Debt as  %  of Total Capital       47%      42%       47%      42%      49%       46%      50%      48%       49%      45%
Current ratio                                 141%       97%     155%      78%    154%        67%  | 164%       51%     160%       84 %



-50-                                 Appendix C
Page 7 of 14
B. MINE DIRECTORATE'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
FGAT operates its Mae Moh lignite mining operations as separate profit center, and the
'f the lignite mine operations may be assessed overall from the tabular presentations
l5. The ROR for the five year interval averaged 32%. The mine department has been in
.lmpliance with respect to covenants on debt to equity and debt service coverage ratios. For
iiiuerval FY91-95, the debt to equity ratio oscillated annually between 0.87 and 1.29. The
avcrage tor tlhe period was 1.11, and is substantially below the maximum of 1.5 allowed by Bank
covenants. Debt service coverage in the period averaged 2.2, and this average is substantially above
the minimum ratio of 1.3 required by the covenants. However, in FY95 the debt service coverage was
at -0.03 (FY94: 1.54) due to significant increases in development and other expenditures, over the
preceding year. Loan repayment amounts also increased by about 40-45% over each of the preceding
four years.
7.         Other financial performance indicators for the Mine Directorate (Appendix C, page  )
also indicate that the Directorate's financial position and performance has been satisfactory and strong.
Debt as a percentage of total deployed capital averaged a low 23 % during the five year interval, while
the SFR, though highly variable in the period (between 25% and -124%), averaged 64% during the
period. The large oscillations in the SFR resulted primacily from the large year to year variations in
capital and development expenditures. The average operating ratio for the period was about 77%, and
the high and the low for the period was 83 % and 73 %, respectively.
8.         Lignite sales in the five year period reached a maximum of 12.8 MMT in FY95 from 11.6
MMT in FY91. The transfer price for lignite ranged between 443 Baht/MT and 501.5 Baht/MT. The
transfer price is derived from net-back calculations on the price of electricity from imported coal
discussed briefly elsewhere (Appendix C, para C16), and hence is subject to fluctuations as the price of
coal varies on the international market. EGAT's lignite production costs have been relatively stable at
an average of 344 Baht/MT during the five year interval. Despite some inflation in Thailand during the
last five years, EGAT has been able to limit production costs within a narrow range of Baht 329/MT to
Baht 355/MT.
9.         Since the mine department is experienced and mature, its performance should be assessed
on the basis of the cost of coal on the international market. In this context, the mine department's
production cost on a Btu basis is higher by about 20% than the international spot market (fob) price,
and is probably close to the price of long term contracted coal. However, Mae Moh lignite is of low
quality, and its use requires significant investment in capture technology both for S02 and particulates.
The need for this investment for pollution control should further offset the price of this lignite. Hence,
EGAT needs to bring down production costs in its operations. A first realistic target, taking the above
issues into account, would be a production cost of US$11. Two realistic avlenues can be identified for
improvement on this score: (a) increase 1manpower pioductivity significantly; and (b) reduce the staffing
levels to half or less of the present manpower strength in the mine department within a few years. At
this time the total employment roll in the Mine Directorate is about 2,800 strong, even though most of
the overburden excavation operations have been contracted out. Without imminent plans for expanding
operations, this staffing level is excessive.



-51-                                               Appendix C
Page 8 of 14
THAILAND
Third Power System Development Project
Lignite Mine Directorate
Summary of Financial Performance, 1991 - 1995
( Million Baht )
.____-___ ---________  1991  I    1992     1    1993    I    1994    I   1995
Lignte Sales. MMt                    11.58       -12.55        11.83        12.29       12.79
Transfer Pnce. BMon                 463.6         451.4        475.8        501.5       443.4
Production Cost. Blton                329          355          340          351          343
Total Revenue                         5369         5666         5630         6163         5692
Generating Expenses                  3415         3985         3432         3260         3388
Interest                              155          210          177          183          190
Net Profit                           1391          942          1413        1660         10
Ratios:
Debt as % of Total Capital           21           12           35           24           2
Debt Service Coverage              5.14         2.55          1.75         1.54       -0.03
Debt Equity Ratio                0.87: 1      1.02: 1      1.29: 1      1.25: 1      1.14: 1
Se.f- financing Ratio           256.73%       89.07%       -9.41%      108.22%     -123.53%
Operating Ratio                  74.09%       83.27%       74.89%       73.06%       80.94%
Current Ratio                    0.64 :1      0C72: 1      1.41 :1      0.70:1       0.91: 1
Rate of Return                   45.97%       28 66%       28.04%         32%        26.07
I-   ___                                               



-52-                                               Appendix  C
Page 9 of 14
THAILAND
Third Power System Development Project
EGAT Lignite Mine Operations
Source and Application of Funds, 1991 - 1995
(Million Baht)
_1991         1992                          1903 _  1994  1995
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net income before interest                          1547          1153           1591          1844           1274
Adjustment for itams not involving
the movement of funds                             2892          3354          3043          3014           3193
Total funds generated from operations               4439          4507          4634           4858          4467
OTHER SOURCES OF FUNDS
Long - term loans received                           583           362           1335           905          1057
Govemment contribution                                10
Miscelaneous contributions                             2             1             17             2             14
Disposal of fixed assets                               8
Total source of funds                               5022          4870           5986          5765          5538
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Loan repayments                                      363           369            348           337           511
Irterest                                             292           2S0            319           372           454
Capital expenditure                                 1107           404            443           288           1044
Development expenditure                             1522          2558           3322          3252           357
Lignie Stockpile for future use                                                                 253            272
Total funds applied                                 3284           3611          4432          4502           5860
NET OLUTFLOW OF FONDS I INFLOW                      1,738          1.259         1,554         1,263           (322)
TRANSFER TO EGAT                                     1.898         1.217         1.248         1.348            211
INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN WORKING CAPITAL               (180)           42            306           (85)          (111
Made up as follows:
Increase / (Decrease) in materials & supplies         45           104            361           (60)           (65)
Increase I (Decrease) in accounts receivable        (142)           22            (18)           50            (38)
Increase I (Decrease) in accounts payable            (63)          (84)          (37)           (75)           (8)
_____________________________________  (160)         42 1          306           (85)          (111)



-53-
Appendix C
Page 10 of 14
THAILAND
Third Power System Development Project
EGAT Lignite Mine Operations
Financial Statements 1991 - 1995, Income Statements
Million Baht)
1991           1992          1993          1994          1995
Lignite Sales . MMt                         11.58         12 55          11.83         12.29         12.79
Transfer Price. B/ton                       463.6         451.4          475.8         501.5         443.4
Revenue                                  5369          5666           5630          6163           5692
Generating Expenses
Overburden removal                           2588          2905          2629          2572           2657
Reclamation                                    61            71            72             81            88
Others                                        766          1009           731            607           643
Subtotal                                    3415          3985           3432          3260          3388
Head Office                                   138           181           202            225           297
Amount of Preliminary expenses                 15             6              5           266            32
Inventory adjustment                            2             4            93            243           286
Depreciation                                  203           241           246           251            229
Iriterest charge                              155           210           177            183           190
Foreigr, exchange losses                       50            97            62             75           186
Net operating Expenses                       39781         4724          4217          4503           4608
NET  PROFIT                                  1391           942          1413           1660          1084



- VA 
Appendix C
Page 11 of 14
THAILAND
Third Power System Development Project
EGAT Lignite Mine Operations
Financial Statements 1991 - 1995, Balance Sheet
(Million Baht)
--______________________________ _ I 1991  1  1992    1993     J     1994     1     199S
Assets
Property. plant & equip
At cost                                     4225          5571          5800           6541          6930
Less Acc. Depr.                             2579          2875          3194           3567          3883
Net                                      1646          2696          2606           2974           3047
Under construction                            1474           584           807            394          1085
Development expenses                          3305          2974          3809           4698          5940
Reclamation sinking fund                       350          451            557            675           675
Deferred expenses                               16            16            17             13             8
Subtotal                                     6791         6721           7796           8754         10755
Current Assets
Inventory                                      350           454           815           1007          1214
Receivables                                     63            85            67            118            79
Subtotal                                       413           539           882           1125          1293
Total Assets                                  7204          7260          8678           9879         12048
Liabiities & Eauity
Equity                                        739           739           756            758           772
Retained earnings
Intemal Funding                              2941          2666          2832           3143          4438
Deferred foreign exchange adjustment          -683         -814          -714           -691           -493
Subtotal                                     2997          2591          2874           3210          4717
Long -term  debt                             3557          3834          4826           5498          6151
Less current portion of LTD.                  346           363           206            613           234
Net                                           3211          3471          4620           4885           5917
Reclamation sinking fund                      350           451           557            675           675
Current Liabilities
| Payables                                    263           347           362            435           435
Current portion of LTD                        346           363           206            613           234
Interest due                                   37            37            59             61            70
Subtotal                                       6461          747           627           1109            739
Total Liabilities & Eouitv                    72041         7260          8678           9879          12048



-55-                                   Appendix C
Page 12 of 14
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. EGAT POWER DEVELOPMENT PLAN
B. PAK MUN HYDROPOWER PROJECT
C. MAE MOH MINE EXPANSION
10.        EGAT conducted the economic analvses to reconfi1m  the viability of its power
development plan (PDP) for FY90-99 and the two project components financed under the Third Power
System Development Projec.. Each analysis and resiuits obtained are discussed as follows.
A. EGAT's Power Development Plan
11.        To reconfirm the appropriateness of the least-cost power expansion plan for the interval
FY90-99, EGAT re-computed an adjusted financial rate of return as an approximation of the IERR.
The IERR was calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit streams associated with the
time-slice of EGAT's investments for the period FY90-99, as shown in Table 9A in Part II. The capital
costs shown in Table 9A are the investment costs of power plants, transmission system expansions, and
other related investments which will be completed by FY99. Fuel costs are actual fuel costs up to
FY94. Between FY95 and FY99, oil based fuel costs are inflated on the basis of inflation predictions
by the National Energy Policy Office. The cost of natural gas between FY95 and FY99 is also
escalated on the basis of cost factors provided by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand. The economic
cost of lignite fuel is the estimated production cost, and this is held relatively constant between
US$12.60 and US$12.90/MT after FY94. The fuel cost predictions have a minor effect on the IERR,
since the tariff structure which went into effect in FY91 has a fuel adjustment provision for the revenue
per kWh.
12.        Future operations, maintenance and administrative costs for the generation and
transmission system facilities are charged according to EGAT's historical rates which are expressed as
a percentage of capital costs. These costs are charged as follows: oil/gas thermal plants (2.5%),
lignite/coal plants (3.0%), combined cycle plants (2.8%), gas turbine (3.0%), hydropower plants
(1.0%), and transmission system (1.5%). For the period FY90-94, the Operations and Maintenance
and administrative costs charged are actual costs incurred in the period.
13.        The IERR obtained for the expansion program is 19.2%, and is appreciably higher than
the rate of 16% estimated at appraisal. Two main factors contributed to this: (a) EGAT's actual energy
sales in FY90-95 have been significantly higher (20-25 %) than appraisal estimates; sales between FY95
and FY99 are also presently estimated to significantly exceed those estimated at appraisal; and (b) total
fuel costs have been significantly lower during the period than those estimated at appraisal.
B. Pak Mun Hydropower Project
14.        At appraisal in 1991, the equalizing discount rate for the Pak Mun Hydropower project
when compared to the next best generation option (3 x 50 MW gas turbines) was estimated to be
15.7%; the price of crude oil was assumed to be US$20 per barrel, escalated in real terms at 3% per
annum until the year 2006. The re-evaluation of the equalizing discount rate is done By EGAT in 1995
prices based on the following assumptions: (a) annual energy generation - 280 GWh; (b) price of crude



-56-
oil - US$19/barrel (corresponding price of low sulfur heavy fuel oil at Baht 3.05/liter), with a fuel price
escalation of 3% per annum until 2006; (c) calorific value of heavy fuel oil - 5.57 MMBTU/barrel; (d)
efficiency of gas turbines - 25 %; (e) O&M costs - gas turbines: 3 %, hydro plant: 1 %, and
transmission: 1.5%; and (f) economic lives - gas turbines: 20 years, hydro civil works: 50 years, hydro
plant: 30 years, and transmission: 33 years. The capital costs of gas turbine power plant and associated
high voltage switching and transmission system are based on EGAT costs for similar plants in the
system.
15.        On the above basis, the equalizing discount rate is evaluated at 12%, which is above the
opportunity cost of capital of 10% in Thailand, but much lower than the appraisal estimate of 15.7%.
This is mainly due to the completion cost of Pak Mun being about 31 % higher than the estimated cost.
C. Mae Moh Mine Expansion
16.        The economic analysis for the mine component of the project has been conducted for two
cases: (a) the mine expansion component investment treated on its own; and (b) the mine component
plus power units 8 and 9 (2 x 300 MW) treated as a single investment. The methodology and
assumptions for the analysis are similar to those used for appraisal of the project under Loan 3138-TH.
For the first case, the transfer price of lignite is computed using net back calculations as shown in the
Appendix table. The cost of generating electricity from a hypothetical coal burning plant at Mae Moh
using imported coal is computed based on the international purchase price of coal, its sea and inland
transportation cost, and the cost of the coal generating plant. The transfer cost of lignite is "net-
backed" from the cost of electricity produced in the hypothetical (import) coal based plant and the
investment cost of the lignite plant. The IERR for the expansion project, when the lignite mine
operations are treated as a stand alone operation, is above 150%. This unusually high IERR is
predominantly due to the high transfer prices for lignite which is almost double the production cost of
lignite at Mae Moh.
17.        The joint treatment of the mine expansion and power Units 8 and 9 investments yielded an
IERR of 13.5%, compared to the estimate of 13%  at appraisal of the Second Power System
Development Project.



Calculation of Netback Value of Lignite
Fiscal        Coal - Based Generation Costs       Lignite - Based Generation Costs          Assumptions
Year      Coal    Energy   Capacity    Total    Capacity  Inferred   Netback
Price    Charge    Charge  Generation   Charge    Energy    Value
Cost                Charge  of Lignites
(USD/Ton)  (c/kWh)   (c/kWh)   (c/kWh)    (c/kWh)   (c/kWh)  (USD/Ton)
1987      56.42      1.93       1.97      3.90       1.74      2.16     26.39  Plant Capital Cost (USD/kW)
1988      54.85      1.88       1.97      3.85       1.74      2.11     25.73  - Coal                      1175
1989      57.96      1.98       1.97      3.95       1.74      2.21      27.03  - Lignite                1036.8
1990      57.93      1.98       1.97      3.95       1.74      2.21      27.02
1991      56.93      1.95       1.97      3.92       1.74      2.18     26.60  Plant Heat Rate (kcal/kWh)
1992      53.77      1.84       1.97      3.81       1.74      2.07     25.28  - Coal                     2275
1993      51.00      1.74       1.97      3.71       1.74      1.98     24.12  - Lignite                  2383
1994      50.00      1.71       1.97      3.68       1.74      1.94     23.71
1995      51.10      1.75       1.97      3.72       1.74      1.98     24.17  Heatin Value (kcal/kg)
1996      52.10      1.78       1.97      3.75       1.74      2.01     24.58  - Coal                     6653
1997      52.60      1.80       1.97      3.77       1.74      2.03     24.79  - Lignite                  2825
1998      53.20      1.82       1.97      3.79       1.74      2.05     25.04
1999      53.70      1.84       1.97      3.81       1.74      2.07     25.25  Load Factor                 75%
2000      54.20       1.85      1.97      3.82       1.74      2.09      25.46
2001      54.40       1.86      1.97      3.83       1.74      2.09      25.54  O&M Cost (% of Plant Cost)
2002      54.60       1.87      1.97      3.84       1.74      2.10      25.63  - Coal and Lignite           3
2003      54.80       1.87      1.97      3.84       1.74      2.11      25.71   - Transmission System      1.5
2004      55.10       1.88      1.97      3.85       1.74      2.12      25.84
2005      55.30       1.89      1.97      3.86       1.74      2.12      25.92  Lignite Mine Loss Factor    3%
2006      55.50       1.90      1.97      3.87       1.74      2.13      26.00
2007      55.50       1.90      1.97      3.87       1.74      2.13      26.00
2008      55.50       1.90      1.97      3.87       1.74      2.13      26.00
2009      55.50       1.90      1.97      3.87       1.74      2.13      26.00
2010      55.50       1.90      1.97      3.87       1.74      2.13      26.00
2011      55.50       1.90      1.97      3.87       1.74      2.13      26.00
Notes:  a/ Excluding taxes and IDC.
b/ All Costs are based on 1994 price level.                                                                  e
c/ Present value is calculated with 1994 base year.                                                        X Q
38/43421:NETBACK
19-02-96                                                                      .
f'



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ThAILND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
APPENDIX D - PAK MUN HYDROPOWER PROJECT






-58-
Appendix D
Page 1 of 21
PAKMUN HYDROPOWER PROJECT
A. RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION
C. HEALTH IMPACT MITIGATION
1.         The Pak Mun Hydropower project went through extensive review and evaluation,
including assessment of environmental, resettlement and ecological impacts, beginning in 1982 before
the project was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in May 1990.  The project scope was
progressively modified and downsized to minimize ecological, environmental and resettlement impacts.
The approved project involved the construction of a dam 5.5 km upstream from the confluence of the
Mun River with the Mekong River, and its operation at completion was specified to allow a maximum
water level of 108 m msl (meters above mean sea level). This level would allow the river to rise to no
more than the level it attained to the top of its banks in the flood season. The storage capacity of the
dam thus consists essentially of the existing river channel. The original design of 1982 ( which
provided for a water retention level at 113 m msl and a dam located at Kaeng Tana rapids) maximized
power output at about twice the present generation capacity.
2.         To minimize environmental and aesthetic impact, the dam was moved 1.5 km upstream to
preserve the Kaeng Tana Rapids which serve as a major tourist attraction for the area. The operating
regime of the dam was also altered to preserve the upstream Kaeng Saphue Rapids by limiting the water
level at the dam to 106 m msl during the dry season. These changes also considerably reduced
estimates of the number of people that would be displaced from about 20,000 in 1982 to about 1,500
(248 families) at appraisal.
A. Resettlement and Compensation
Summary of Agreements Between EGAT and the Bank at Appraisal
3.         The design of the Resettlement and Compensation component of the Pak Mun Hydropower
project, as reflected in the SAR and the Loan Agreement, was based on the following agreements
reached with EGAT:
(a)   Policy. The resettlement and compensation policy would seek to improve the standard of
livelihood of affected households through the provision of infrastructure and economic
assistance opportunities; and provide affected households a choice among alternative
resettlement arrangements. It was agreed that the program would be implemented with the
participation of the affected people. Specifically, the Loan Agreement stipulates that, in
addition to any compensation paid for loss of property: (i) the affected people would be
provided with one of the following options: (1) the allocation of at least 0.08 hectare of
land for home plots and 1.6 hectares of land for farm plots per family in the resettlement
area and necessary assistance to such persons for construction of houses out of
compensation received by them for property acquired from them; or (2) reconstruction of
their existing houses on new back-filled ground near the original locations of such houses;
(ii) low income families would be provided with support for a transition period until



-59-
Appendix D
Page 2 of 21
production facilities are functional; and (iii) public infrastructure facilities would be
provided in the resettlement area, such as irrigation, electricity, paved roads and water
supply and necessary schools and relevant government offices.
(b)   Base-Line Data. Base-line socio-economic data was compiled by TEAM consultants. The
Base-line surveys available at appraisal indicated that a total of 248 households (families)
in 11 villages would be "directly" affected by the project (i.e. their house plots would be
flooded) and would need to be resettled. These comprised: (i) 142 households below 108
m msl; (ii) 95 households between 108 and 108.5 m msl; and (iii) 11 households upstream
of the dam site in Ban Hua Heo village. In addition, there would be a number of
households "indirectly" affected by the project (a household is considered indirectly
affected if its farm plot would be submerged but the household itself would not be
required to relocate as its house plot would not be submerged by the project). The exact
number of "indirectly" affected households had not been established at appraisal.
(c)  Implementation Arrangements and i3udget. The program weuld be formulated, evolved
and (its compensation componernt) managed by two go vernment appointed committees, one
for Resettlement and one for C-mpensation of Land Righ.s and Properties.  EGAT
assumed the responsibility for inplementing the resettlement component.  For this
purpose, it agreed to establish a Resettlement Office headed by an engineer experienced in
resettlement work. EGAT also undertook to carry out a public information campaign to
inform the affected people and to ascertain their preferences among resettlement options.
The budget for resettlement was estimated by EGAT at Baht 159 million; the budget for
compensation was to be determined later on the basis of a detailed survey.
(d)   Monitoring and Evaluation. EGAT and the Ubon Rachathani Province agreed to contract
an independent social science institution for conducting annual evaluation studies of the
outcome of resettlement.
(e)   Environmental Oversight. At Bank's specific request, the Government agreed to appoint
an Environmental Impact Monitoring and Evaluation Committee to oversee the
implementation of the environmental impact mitigation and resettlement plans.
EGAT's Compliance with Agreements
4.         The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission found that EGAT has fully
complied with (and in many instances exceeded) the provisions of the aforementioned agreements with
the Bank. All land acquisition, resettlement, and compensation for houses and farmland has been
completed on terms and with options which have been more diverse and generous than those formulated
at appraisal.
Evolution of Resettlement and Compensation Policies
5.         The absence of comprehensive surveys of all adverse project impacts, during the early
stages of project preparation, necessitated substantial upgrading of the resettlement and compensation
policies. The resettlement entitlements were thus continuously augmented to mitigate the diverse and



-60-
Appendix D
Page 3 of 21
unforeseen nature of project impacts and to meet the demands of the affected persons, often expressed
through confrontation. Significant changes in the policy first established in May 1990 are summarized
below.
Base Resettlement and Compensation Policy (May 1990)
6.   The base policy of May 1990 provided for the following:
(a)   Each affected household was entitled to receive a cash compensation for land at the rate of
Baht 6,000 - 8,000/rai (1 rai = 0.16 hectare), the then prevailing land price. Following
the protests at the end of 1991, this was raised to Baht 35,000/rai;
(b)   Households with unaffected farmland could opt to have each houseplot back-filled to
elevation 108.5 m msl at EGAT's expense and relocate or reconstruct their houses on
back-filled land. Infrastructure facilities were to be rehabilitated/replaced by EGAT;
(c)   Households opting for relocation were offered developed houseplots each measuring 800
square meters in Sirindhorn resettlement area prepared by EGAT at the base of Sirindhorn
dam. Households opting for resettlement to this site could exercise one of the following
options: (i) build their house by themselves with the compensation paid, and an additional
grant of Baht 135,000 per household; or (ii) accept a core house of two rooms constructed
by EGAT to which they could make further additions on their own; and
(d)   Under the initial resettlement policy (May 1990) only cash compensation was offered for
affected farmland. This policy was modified in November 1990 to allow for choice of
"land-for-land" with an allotment of up to 10 rais of irrigable farmland at the resettlement
site.
Policy Modifications in December 1991
7.         In December 1991 the resettlement policy was modified as follows:
(a)   Persons, who had built houses on lands not owned by them and/or farmed on lands owned
by the Government, were made eligible for the same entitlement as those who legally
owned the land;
(b)   Households affected by dam-site construction were to be fully compensated for their lands
and properties (houses and structures) and in addition were to be provided new houses
constructed by EGAT on houseplots measuring 2 rais; and
(c)   All the required civic infrastructure at the resettlement site would be provided by EGAT.
Subsequent Policy Modifications in 1993 and 1994
8.        In March-May 1993, additional modifications were made to the resettlement and
compensation policy following further protests to demand more favorable compensation and resettlement



-61-
Appendix D
Page 4 of 21
packages.  These protests were also accompanied by disruptive behavior at the project site. The
changes instituted in response to these protests were:
(a)   Households affected by farmland acquisitions could make a choice between alternative
resettlement options. Households could opt for allotment of 10 rais of farmland at the
Sirindhorn resettlement site, as specified under the November 1990 policy revision, or
under a new option, receive land purchased by EGAT in the vicinity of their original
village;
(b)   A household could also opt for back-filling of up to 3 rais of farmland;
(c)   The settlement options were further broadened to include an option consisting of a cash
grant of Baht 35,000/rai in lieu of receiving up to 10 rais of farmland from EGAT.
Under this option the recipients could make the purchases of farmland on their own; and
(d)   EGAT agreed to compensate households from Ban Hua Heo Village affected by blasting at
the tailrace along the same lines as affected households discussed above. Those who did
not wish to relocate on a permanent basis were given the option of receiving a monthly
rent of Baht 3,500 until project completion.
Suimmary of Number of Affected Households and Compensation
9.         Surveys at project approval indicated that the number of households/families requiring
relocation totalled about 262, while 780 households would be affected through the acquisition of 5,700
rais of farmland. The data of affected households, the corresponding policy changes and the resulting
compensation costs are summarized below:
Date Of Policy Announcement             Number of Households          Cost
Eligible              Baht million
May 1990 (Base Policy)                         984                      295.7
(House and land compensation)
June-December 1991                                                       16.9
(Additional Baht 135,000 to those
not opting to settle in Sirindhorn)
(Infrastructure development)                                           103.7
May 1993                                       226                       41.5
(Relocation or rental expenses to those
affected by construction noise)
January 1994                                   83                        13.7
(Compensation to those in free board
zone opting to relocate)



-62-
Appendix D
Page 5 of 21
January 1994                                    445                        20.0
(Compensation to those above 108.5 m msl
opting to relocate)
Total                                          1,738                      491.5
Infrastructure and Other Development Work Undertaken by EGAT
10.        In addition to the resettlement and compensation described above, EGAT undertook the
following steps to improve the resettlement program and the livelihood of the villagers, and to pacify
those resorting to protests and disruptive behavior:
(a)  Instituted vocational training programs between October 1993 and September 1994 for
residents of 31 affected villages. A total of 900 persons were trained in eight types of
vocations at a total expense of Baht 1.5 million;
(b)   Established a Public Service Center at Khong Chiam district offices and a mobile unit to
receive grievances of people allegedly affected by the project;
(c)   Funded a study, as a precaution, to determine the prevalence of schistosomiasis and
evidence of the presence of the carrier of this disease, the Neotricula snail. EGAT further
established a mobile medical treatment unit to identify and treat parasitic infections among
the affected villages in the project arza. This health mitigation effort is further discussed
in Section C of this Appendix,
(d)   Raised the ievcls of roads, constructed bridges, and installed hundreds of markers in the
project area and villages on both sides of the river wherever inundation of infrastructure
or land was expected to result, due to impoundment of the dam; and
(e)   Set up much improved new community health centers, temples, schools and other facilities
in place of those which had been affected by the project. A total of 38 km of roads and
12 bridges have been constructed in eight villages. In the Sirindhorn resettlement site,
EGAT had also planned to establish demonstration farm plots, and model poultry and
dairy farms. The Sirindhorn settlement site was also supposed to be provided with
electricity and water supply including a 35,000 cu m reservoir. These activities had to be
abandoned as few wanted to relocate to this resettlement site.
Consequences of Upgrading Resettlement Entitlements
11.        The resettlement and compensation offered first in 1990 was generous (6,000 to 8,000
B/rai) in relation to prevailing property/land price levels and local income data. This compensation
level was partially instrumental in raising land and property values around the Pak Mun Hydropower
project and the banks of the river.  Since significant delays occurred in acceptance of final
compensation and resettlement packages in a large number of cases, land and property values escalated
further as others purchased properties on the river and around the lake for investment or development
purposes. Despite the escalation in land values, revised compensation packages (35,000 B/rai) offered



-63-
Appendix D
Page 6 of 21
after 1991 remained generous in relation to prevailing property values. Households, which had no titles
to land they occupied or those which were farming/squatting on Government lands, were also extended
the same liberal policy provisions.
12.        The improved economic status of households affected by the project vis-a-vis that of those
who had not been affected was a cause for further discontent, on the part of those who had not been
affected by dam construction. This was often exploited by advocacy groups opposed to the dam
project. Frequently, unreasonable demands were made for redress of grievances which did not have a
basis. All the demands were systematically reviewed by the resettlement committees, responded to, and
redressed as necessary.
Compensation for Impact on Fisheries
13.        In early 1994 before impoundment of the dam, villagers supported by some NGOs
conducted protests in Bangkok to demand compensation for households engaged in fishing as an
occupation, and also for households deriving income from fishing as a sideline pursuit. The protesters
alleged that the project had adversely impacted the fishing catches and income of households dependent
on fishing. The Committee for Provision of Assistance to Project Affected Persons (CPAAP), which
succeeded two predecessor committees established in 1991 to execute and monitor resettlement and
compensation activities, requested a sub-committee, which it had organized in October 1993 on fisheries
issues, to determine the number of households which had been impacted.  In June 1994, the
subcommittee came out with a number of 2,140, and recommended a compensation level ranging
between Baht 10,000 and Baht 97,000 for each household. These settlements were not accepted by
many, and protests continued on this issue.
14.        In January 1995, the Government set-up a new  committee called "Committee on
Assistance and Occupational Development for Fish Farmers" (CAODFF) to establish the appropriate
criteria for compensation and to determine the level of compensation which may be paid to those
impacted. The committee included members from among affected people, NGOs who supported these
people, EGAT representatives, members of the Government of Ubon Ratchathani province, and
representatives of agencies of the province of Ubon Ratchathani concerned with fisheries.
15.        In March 1995, CAODFF decided that a compensation level of Baht 90,000 each should
be paid to 2,932 households allegedly affected by the project with regard to their fishing income. The
compensation of Baht 90,000 would consist of: (a) an outright cash payment of Baht 30,000 per
household; and (b) a contribution of Baht 60,000 per household to fund a program for occupational
development of fish farmers. This program will be implemented through the formation of a cooperative
which will be advised by a panel of senior experts on fisheries, experts on fisheries from academia, and
some members of the faculty from Kasetsart University. Some 3,000 additional household cases remain
to be investigated by CAODFF to determine if they have been impacted with respect to their fishing
income. The total compensation paid to date amounted to Baht 240 million.



-64-
Appendix D
Page 7 of 21
Institutional Arrangements for Planning and Implementation
16.        The overall responsibility for smooth implementation of the resettlement program
was vested with the two committees formed by the Government for this purpose on May 15, 1990.
These committees were:
(a)   The committee for compensation of land rights and properties; and
(b)   The committee for resettlement.
17.        The committees were headed by the Provincial Governor of Ubon Ratchathani and
consisted of members from EGAT and the various government agencies concerned. The Deputy
Permanent Secretary to the Prime Minister's Office was appointed as an advisor to the committees. For
performance of specific tasks related to resettlement and rehabilitation of the affected persons, the
following sub-committees were also formed:
(a)   Land and properties compensation disbursement sub-committee for each of the three
affected districts;
(b)   Land plots allotment and residents relocation sub-committee;
(c)   Agriculture and occupational promotion sub-committee;
(d)   Public relations sub-committee;
(e)   Environmental impact assessment monitoring and evaluation sub-committee; and
(f)   Fishery occupation impact survey and study sub-committee (formed in October, 1993).
18.        The subcommittees, headed by a Deputy Governor of Ubon Ratchathani or the Provincial
Permanent Secretary also comprised of the chiefs of the three affected districts, EGAT officials and the
local government officials. The sub-committees briefed the apex committees on the various resettlement
and rehabilitation related issues from time to time.
19.        The two committees on resettlement deliberated on resettlement and rehabilitation issues
and conveyed findings/required actions to EGAT management. EGAT accordingly directed the Pak
Mun project staff to implement the directives of the committees. The compensation/resettlement related
tasks were carried out by the Resettlement Unit of the Pak Mun Hydropower project, based at the
project site.
Approval of Resettlement Plans and Monitoring and Evaluation
20.        The National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) was responsible for
approval to the initial resettlement plans drawn up by EGAT at the time of project approval. NESDB
was also responsible for monitoring the implementation of environment and social plans for the project.
NESDB designated the Office of Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP) for carrying out this task.



-65-
Appendix D
Page 8 of 21
Changes in Apex Committees Responsible for Implementation
21.        In order to better focus implementation efforts related to resettlement and rehabilitation of
persons affected by the Pak Mun Hydroelectric project, the Government replaced the two committees in
charge of compensation and resettlement issues with a single committee, the committee for assistance to
project affected persons (CAPAP), in December, 1993. The change of government at the central level
was also an important reason for this change. This committee, chaired by the Governor of Ubon
Ratchathani also comprised members from the Prime Minister's office, EGAT, various departments of
the Government, the provincial council, heads of all the affected districts and the Pak Mun Hydropower
project staff. The responsibilities of this committee were:
(a)   To establish fair and acceptable principles and guidelines on provision of assistance to the
persons affe ted by the project;
(b)   To oversee compliance of the declaration made by EGAT on March 18, 1993;
(c)   To respond to the petitions submitted by affected persons at the Khong Chiam District
office and direct the agencies concerned to carry out the necessary actions and inform the
local communities;
(d)   To address any controversial issues related to environmental and resettlement impact of
the project; and
(e)   To periodically report to the Minister in the Prime Minister's Office on the performance
of the committee.
22.        The issue of impact on fisheries could not be resolved effectively through the CAPAP
since it did not include fisheries specialists as members. The decision given by the committee on
compensation due to the impact on fisheries was not widely accepted by the affected persons. In order
to address this issue, the Government constitute,'. on January 27, 1995, a separate "Committee for
provision of assistance and development of fisheiy occupation" for fishernen affected by the Pak Mun
Hydropower project (CPADFF). The commiLee, heaued by the Director General of Fisheries of the
Government, was created ai par with the existing CAPAP.
23.        Since all compensation ard resettlement related work has been completed, the Resettlement
Unit of the Pak Mun Hydropower project has been dissolved since September, 1995. Only the staff
associated with actions related to providing compensation for fisheries and formation of fishing
cooperatives has been retained.  This staff is also responsible for addressing residual resettlement
related issues, if any.
Information Dissemination, Participation and Consultations, and Grievance Redress
Information Dissemination
24.        Efforts to disseminate project related information and involve affected persons in
resettlement planning and implementation, which were initially lacking, increased as project



-66-
Appendix D
Page 9 of 21
implementation progressed. These efforts were substantially prompted by the increasing reliance by
affected persons on NGOs and anti-project activists for project related information. The information
dissemination campaign was substantially strengthened in 1993 and subsequent years. The district level
committees on various project related issues and also the fisheries committee included representatives of
affected villages (village heads) as members in order to facilitate easier information dissemination
among affected persons and ensure their participation in the deliberations of these committees. From
1993, officials from the project office regularly conducted the following meetings to inform/consult with
the affected persons on various project issues:
(a)   Meetings in the affected villages on specific project/resettlement related issues. At least
one such meeting was held every month in at least one of the affected villages. The
project officials, members of the sub-committees on various project related issues, the
village heads and affected persons participated in these meetings;
(b)   From 1993, at least one meeting was held in the district government office of the affected
district; and
(c)   Meetings of the sub-committees on the various project related issues. These meetings
were held in the district offices (for the three district committees) once every month. The
sub-committee on impact of the project on fisheries included three representatives of the
affected people from each of the three affected districts.
Participation of, and Consultations with Affected Persons
25.         Serious initiatives to strengthen participation of affected persons in the resettlement
program were taken only when project implementation was at a fairly advanced stage. The main reason
for increasing information dissemination and participation of the affected people was the strong anti-
project campaign launched by some NGOs. Efforts in this direction during the early stages of project
planning and implementation may have helped avoid some of the misgivings in the minds of the affected
people regarding the scope of project impacts and the compensation/resettlement program proposed to
be implemented by EGAT. However, the affected people were free to exercise their option regarding
resettlement alternative preferred and the choice of resettlement site, from the earliest stages of project
implementation itself. In order to improve the effectiveness of the fisheries development program in the
project area, it has been decided that fishing cooperatives will be managed exclusively by the affected
persons.
Grievance Redress
26.         The mechanisms for redress of the resettlement related grievances of the affected persons,
which were initially lacking, improved as project implementation progressed. Project authorities
realized that a number of contentious issues related to resettlement policies and implementation could
only be addressed through regular contact with the affected persons. Efforts were consequently made to
present adequate opportunities to the affected persons to express and resolve their grievances. The
inclusion of local district chiefs in the committees responsible for resettlement planning and
implementation was aimed at ensuring that effective channels are available to convey and address the
problems/grievances associated with the resettlement program. Subsequently, partly in response to the



-67-
Appendix D
Page 10 of 21
demand of the affected persons to demarcate and publicize the areas affected by the project, a Service
Center was opened at the district office at Khong Chiam to receive and process the petitions received
from affected persons. Affected persons could also submit petitions to the project office at Srindhom,
to the district offices of the three districts, or directly to the sub-committees established for addressing
various issues. The petitions/grievances of the affected persons were examined by the sub-committee
concerned and its findings and recommendations were conveyed to the apex committee on resettlement
issues. The apex committee(s) reviewed the recommendation of the sub-committee and directed EGAT
to take the required actions. In case the petition was found not to merit any action, a written reply was
given to the petitioner clarifying the reasons for the committees decision. A total of 1,372 petitions
were received from the affected persons during project implementation and all of these petitions were
addressed by the concerned sub-committees/apex committee(s).
Monitoring and Evaluation of The Resettlement Program
27.        Internal monitoring is being conducted by the Environment and Social Division of EGAT
and external monitoring, until now, has been conducted by OEPP. Both types of monitoring are
currently being carried out on an annual basis. In order to establish a baseline for monitoring the
impact of the project on incomes and standards of living of the affected persons, a post-project
implementation socio-economic survey of the affected households has been carried out by the Khon
Khaem University in June, 1995. Comparison of the income estimates of the residents of the project
area in general, prepared by Team Engineering Consultants as part of the EIA and the baseline surveys
carried out by Khon Khaen University in 1995, suggests that income levels of affected persons are
likely to have improved significantly.  In future, both internal and external monitoring of the
compensation and resettlement program needs to be carried out annually in the Pak Mun Hydropower
project.
B. Enviromnental Impact Mitigation
28.        EGAT has fully complied with all agreements reached with the Bank on the mitigation of
environmental impacts during and following the construction of the project. A summary of the
environmental impact mitigation program is given in Table Dl. EGAT has rehabilitated construction
sites and access roads following project completion. Based on project supervision and review during
implementation, the Bank found that EGAT had developed an adequate environmental impact mitigation
plan. Construction of the dam was carried out in a manner to minimize adverse effects on the site and
the river. Blasting to deepen the river-bed downstream to the dam was confined to areas within coffer
dams to avoid killing/affecting fish. The Kaeng Tana Rapids downstream have not been affected, and
the dam is operated in a way to preserve the Kaeng Saphue Rapids upstream. A warning system has
been installed to regulate flow in the river to preserve beauty and tourist interest in the upstream rapids.
Significant issues, mitigation actions, and accomplishments of the environmental plan are briefly as
follows.
National Park Conservation and Enhancement
29.        Under the conservation and enhancement plan, fully equipped protection and guard units
have been installed at the Kaeng Tana National Park which is adjacent to the dam-site on the southern



-68-
Appendix D
Page II of 21
bank of the Mun River. A fully equipped first aid station for providing contingency aid to tourists, and
a National Park patrol road, were also designed, constructed and completed for the park. EGAT
completed construction of two suspension bridges from either bank to Don Tana island located in the
middle of the Mun River. These bridges have considerably enhanced the attraction of the park as a
tourist facility. Planting of trees in the park falls within the ambit of the Government's national policy
for reforestation.
Archaeological Salvage
30.         Prior to implementation, an archaeological survey was conducted by the Government's
Fine Arts Department for locating probable archaeological sites and temples which may be affected by
the project.  The survey concluded that only one historical site, King Chittasen's inscription
commemorating his victory several centuries ago over a local ruler, located about 500 meters from the
dam was likely to be affected by the project. The pillar bearing the inscription was located at an
elevation of 111.7 m msl, and this original pillar was relocated to a museum. A duplicate was
constructed and placed at a site close to the original site at a higher elevation.
Fisheries Development
31.         The environmental mitigation plan included a strong fisheries development component with
a budget of Baht 15.9 million at appraisal. This component has a very broad-based program and the
funds are sufficient to execute the following component programs until the end of 1996: (a) construction
of a Fisheries Development Center; (b) construction of a Fisheries Resource Conservation/Control
Center and execution of a fisheries resource conservation program; (c) construction and operation of a
fisheries ladder at the dam; and (d) conduct of a "Fisheries Migration Study". These topics and other
subtopics are reviewed briefly below with regard to the accomplishments and results. DOF has prime
responsibility for the implementation of this program.
Fisheries Development and Conservation Centers
32.         The fisheries development center which consists of an extensive compound, offices and
buildings, fish hatchery and spawning facilities, and facilities for providing information and training to
villagers has been constructed in the village of Hua Heo, adjacent to the river/dam. The center houses
the fisheries development unit presently staffed by seven persons, which manages the operation of the
fish ladder, conducts education and training of local residents in aquaculture, and in future will conduct
studies and research on fish migration/abundanck. in the river. The other unit, which is housed at this
center, is the conservation and regulation unit ccns;sting of 14 individuals who will be responsible for
public relations and related activities.
33.         The fisheries development center was completed in March, 1995 and it has several dozen
large 20 and 40 square meter tanks which comprise the hatchery and culture facilities to be used to
introduce fish into the lake/river in future. These facilities are capable of hatching and rearing several
commercial fish varieties simultaneously. Starting in May 1996, these facilities will be used to hatch
and stock local and other fish species into the Mun River to supplement shortages of fish, if any,
created by the construction of the dam. In FY95, a total of 3,000,000 hatched fish and 7,000,000
Macrobrachium were released into the lake. The resulting first year catch of giant sized prawns,



-69-
Appendix D
Page 12 of 21
resulting from the introduction of Macrobrachium which is not native to the river, was 18 MT in FY95.
The data for this estimate was collected from large purchasers from outside the region (60%) and local
merchants/fisherman (40%). The planned stocking program and yields for FY96 and FY97 are shown
in the Table D2 of this Appendix.
Fish Pond Culture
34.        To improve the lives and income stream for villagers and households in the project area,
EGAT/DOF evolved a program to provide households affected by the dam project with fish culture
ponds, backyard cement ponds, cement and earthen ponds at schools, and large rice field culture ponds
as shown in Table D2. The overall accomplishments for the program are generally on track with
targets set for the program for the FY95-97 period. In FY95, a total of 150 fish culture and 200
backyard ponds were established for affected households, compared to the total of 500 to be established
during the three year period. Similarly, the accomplishments with regard to large school-yard and rice
field culture ponds are also on track. The lake reservoir is to be stocked with 5 million fish and
Macrobrachium each in FY96 and FY97.
35.        Each backyard pond is capable of sustained production of 50 kg of fish per month. Until
the end of calendar 1996, funds allocated by EGAT will be used to provide food for fish grown in these
community and household ponds. The ICR mission was given to understand that funds being provided
for in the Government's planned budget for FY97 contains an allocation to support fisheries and
fisheries development center programs. Free supply and distribution of fish food for private backyard
and community ponds for affected villages will also continue with government funds after FY96. The
program executed under the fisheries development component provided training on fisheries to 1,805
individuals in FY95. This training included instruction on fish culture and fish pond technology.
Fish Migration Study
36.        DOF and EGAT jointly conducted studies in two phases on fish populations and migratory
patterns in the Mun River and adjacent areas upstream and downstream of the Mekong River close to
the confluence of the two rivers. During Phase I of the study sampling was conducted at four locations
over a distance of about 140 km up the Mun River to a point close to the Chi River and at two
locations upstream and downstream in the Mekong within 5 km of the confluence of the two rivers.
This sampling was conducted in 1993 during the dry (April), early rainy (June) and rainy seasons
(August).
37.        A total of 109 and 93 fish species were found in the Mun and Mekong rivers,
respectively, and 32 species were found exclusively in the Mun River. The Mun and Mekhong had 53
and 45 fish species of commercial value, respectively, and between the two only 4 rare species. The
relative weight percentages of the four generic groups found (carps, murrels, catfishes, and
miscellaneous) in the two rivers are similar, with carps significantly predominating over the other three
groups. Carps decrease in relative quantity seasonally from the dry to the rainy season in the two
rivers, while the relative quantities of catfishes increase between these seasons. In the Mun, smaller
fish tended to concentrate in the rapids, while larger fish were more predominantly found in riverine
habitat. However, density of fish found in the rapids was about four times that in the riverine.



-70-
Appendix D
Page 13 of 21
38.        The number ot specie,s and density of fish found during the dry season were considerably
higher in the two rivers than in the rainy season. The grand average of standing crops (representing the
abundance of fish) is slightly highei in the Mekong than in the Mun. However, in relation to other
rivers in Thailand, the abundance found in the Mun and Mekong can be described as moderate.
39.        The results and insights gained from the Phase I study were used to design the Phase II
studies conducted between October 1993 and September 1994. The objective of the Phase II study was
to assess species richness, composition, size distribution and abundance of economically important fish
species, and to gain further insight into the movement and migratory patterns of fish in the Mun and
Mekong. This study also concentrated on acquiring data from six sampling locations described under
the Phase I study, and used two different fish net sampling methods. The results of this study were in
line with results obtained under Phase I. A total of 123 fish species representing 29 families were
found in the Mun and Mekong locations. Of these, 40 species are considered to be commercially
important, while 20 species represent the ornamental varieties.  The results obtained on species
distribution under the study are similar to data obtained in 1992 from a 4.4 ton fish-kill in the Chi and
Mun Rivers resulting from a toxic spill.
40.        Data collected under Phase II also show that species present in the Mun and Mekong do
not show seasonal variations between the dry and wet season, even though environmental conditions
(volume flow, discharge levels, sedimentation loads, allochthonous availability) vary between the
seasons. This implies species composition, richness and abundance factors change between seasons,
because of limiting factors for growth, reproduction, distribution and food availability.  The data
collected pointed to different effectiveness (and observed abundances) based on the method employed
for harvesting fish.
41.        With regard to spawning and migration/movement patterns, the characteristics for each
species vary. Spawning and migration occurs throughout the year, depending on the species. There is
evidence that some fish descend the Mun for feeding, and others go up the Mun from the Mekong for
this purpose.  The physico-chemical conditions (pH, dissolved oxygen, etc) factors are different.
Phytoplankton is abundant in the two rivers, even though abundance levels change seasonally.
Zooplankton levels are moderate, while species composition and distribution of benthos depend on the
presence/levels of organic and detritus, aquatic vegetation and water level in each location. In all,
2,992 fish representing 57 species were tagged and released into the rivers, and about 14% of these
representing 33 species were recaptured.
42.        Together with data collected on fish abundance and distribution in the Mun River in the
early 1980's during the EIA for this project and data available since then from other sources, the Phase
I and II studies will be useful in evaluating the effect of the dam on fish life in the rivers in future.
Operation of the Fish Ladder
43.        The fish ladder has been constructed based on experience and design of the ladder at the
Phayao dam. Operation of the fish ladder by DOF, optimization of its operation, and studies to
determine its effectiveness in fish migration are being supported by funds provided by EGAT since
completion of the dam. Based on data and experience to date from operation of the ladder, particularly
over the two major migration seasons (May-June and October-November, 1995), about 60 species of



-71-
Appendix D
Page 14 of 21
fish native to the river can migrate over the ladder. The experience so far is similar to the fish ladder
operated at Phayao. A total of 1,200 fish migrating up the ladder have been tagged, and results and
analysis from the Phase I migration data are due in a study form by mid-1996. This will be followed
by Phase II migration study commencing in May 1996 which will yield data and results on migration
and abundance in 1997. EGAT's funds allocated for fisheries development programs will support these
studies and programs up to December 1996. DOF will support these studies and other development
programs after this period.
Fishing Activities
44.        The DOF estimates the following fishing activities currently taking place in the project
area:
In the Reservoir
Number of full-time fishermen                       207
Average daily fish catch (Jan - Sept)               190 kg
Average daily shrimp catch (Jul - Oct)               70 kg
Average daily income per fisherman (approx.)        Baht 125
Downstream of the Dam
Number of full-time fishermen                       270
Average daily catch                                  70 kg
Environmental Impaci Nionitoring
45.        Throughout the implementation period, environmental effects during construction had been
monitored by several government bodies, including the Environmental Impact Monitoring and
Evaluation Committee appointed by a Minister in the Prime Minister's office. These committees have,
in general, endorsed the mitigation actions taken by EGAT and have been satisfied with EGAT's
performance on mitigation measures implemented under the project.
C. Health Impact Mitigation
46.        The primary agency responsible for implementing the Health Impact Mitigation (HIM)
component is the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) with EGAT and the Department of Tropical
Medicine of Mahidol University being involved in some important aspects. This component had a
budget of Baht 5.5 million. The basic objectives of the program plan consisted of: (a) monitoring and
prevention of water-borne diseases; (b) improving the health status of affected population; and (c)
undertaking research work on schistosomiasis. The five work plans formulated by MOPH to meet the
basic objectives of the program involve: (a) inicreasing the efficiency of local health services; (b)
preventing local endemic diseases; (c) establishini, primary health centers in the resettlement areas; (d)
improving nutrition and environmental sinitatiun; and (e) conducting a vector survey.



-72-
Appendix D
Page 15 of 21
47.        The mid-term  review of the health impact mitigation plan in 1993 found that the
implementation of the plan by MOPH had been tardy and implementation had not been coordinated
between the various departments. The review stated that results of the surveys had not been properly
collated, some work plans had not been implemented, and the technique used for surveillance of water-
borne diseases was not sensitive enough. However, the judgement at that time was that, if the program
enacted was strictly and consistently implemented, the health status of the affected people would be
considerably improved. Accordingly, the review mission had made several recommendations on the
execution of the HIM, one of which was the establishment of a "Steering Committee" to coordinate and
supervise the HIM program.
48.        In June 1994, a follow-up review of the HIM plan showed that, with the exception of the
research work on snails in the reservoir, the survey on schistosomiasis and two other preliminary work
surveys on health of the affected people, no other information was available on the progress of work
plans. The establishment of HIM committee to supervise, coordinate and monitor the work was again
recommended, and revision of the HIM plan and its technical measures was also recommended. The
account on the status of the HIM work-plan described below is based on material presented at a
workshop at Khong Chiem (Ubon Ratchathani Province) organized by MOPH in July 1995 on
"Improvement of Environmental Health of Pak Mun Project", and interviews by local Bank consultant
on health with officials of MOPH.
49.        The reconmmendation made on formation of the committee to supervise, coordinate and
monitor the revised HIM plan, as discussed in the preceding paragraph, was implemented by organizing
a committee for the purposes stated on March 29, 1995. The committee is chaired by the Deputy
Permanent Secretary for Public Health. Based on the information obtained at the workshop, the status
of the five work-plans for which MOPH was responsible is discussed below. As originally conceived,
the HIM plan was supposed to be conducted in parts over a six year period.
Increasing the Efficiency of Local Health Services
50.        Under this work-plan, a public seminar titled "Love Mae Mun" having the objective of
emphasizing the need for environmental protection of the Mun River and educating the public on its
impact on health was conducted in September 1993. Research on the quality of water in the Mun River
was performed in July 1994. Analysis of 20 water samples showed that between 90 and 100% of the
samples collected were contaminated with fecal coliform and coliform microorganisms. The component
of the work-plan to increase capability and effectiveness of local health services in monitoring and
prevention of water-borne diseases through training had not been implemented yet in 1994. This
activity is proposed to be implemented in FY96 with a budget of Baht 245,000. It was also originally
intended to procure support equipment, including five microscopes, in attempts to strengthen local
health monitoring and prevention services. This had not yet been procured based on the information
obtained at the workshop in July 1995.
Surveillance of Local Endemic Diseases
51.        An epidemiological survey of communicable diseases in areas around the project has been
completed. The survey reported 11 communicable diseases in 10 villages in the project area, including
diarrhoea, severe diarrhoea, pyrexia of unknown origin (PUO), malaria, enteric fever, dysentery,



-73-
Appendix D
Page 16 of 21
dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF), encephalitis, influenza, coryza, measles and rabies. Between 1990-
93, the morbidity rates were 997, 2,467, 2,419 and 4,270, respectively, per 100,000 of population.
However, it is too early to make a judgement on what the causes are; the darn was only impounded
after mid-1994. The incidences of DHF and malaria in the project area between 1990-92 were lower
than those for the whole of the province in which the dam is located, but the 1993 data shows higher
incidence than those of the province at large. The overall morbidity levels for communicable diseases
were similar to those iin the province in general. 'The data obtained for the period between 1990-93
may be assumed to be baseline data, sirice dam impoundment occurred after the data was collected.
52.        A survey of water-borne diseases was conducted once in the last quarter of 1992, which
showed that 4.8%, 22.0% and 1.3% of 2,335 people in 13 villages around the project area were
infected, respectively, with liver-fluke, hookworm, and intestinal fluke infections. The survey did not
encounter any schistosome incidence.
Establishment of Health Care Center
53.        The original plan called for the establishment of a primary health care center with
community participation in monitoring and support of community health activities. This objective had
to be modified since EGAT could not persuade villagers to relocate to the resettlement area at
Sirindhorn. Affected people preferred to reside in areas close to their original homes in the indigenous
villages above the flood-line. The plan was changed into an effort to recruit and train village health
volunteers. In 1994-95, 30 village health volunteers and 60 community leaders were recruited in six
villages. The plan had an approved budget of 200,000 Baht and some of these funds were allocated for
acquisition of materials and drugs for the primary care centers established in these villages. The plan
for providing primary health care services based on the concept of self-reliance is similar in concept to
that used all over Thailand. The volunteers will provide basic medical care to the community and will
also serve as a link between the community and the Government for exchanging information. The
program continues in the 1995-96 period along the same lines as in 1994-95.
Improvement of Nutrition and Enviromnental Sanitation
54.        The nutritional baseline survey was conducted in four villages in January 1993, including
the collection of socio-demographic and health related data for the sampling population. The survey
revealed that most people had low income, and agriculture was the main occupation. Primary food
source was from cultivation and fishing. Nutritional knowledge was generally poor, especially in the
case of pregnant and lactating women. The survey showed that 19.4% of children below five years of
age were in grade 2-3 of malnourishment, 8.3% of school children were malnourished, and 25% of
labor and the elderly were also malnourished. Anemia was found in 35.6% of the population, even
though the majority of the sample had adequate protein nutrition, mainly from fish and other aquatic
species. This nutritional survey has been proposed to be continued.
55.        The sanitation survey was conducted simultaneously with the nutrition survey in the four
villages, each of which has between 57 and 190 households. The Mun River provides water for
domestic use in these villages, and rain-water is the source for drinking water. The river also is the
source for fish. Fermented fish and other fluke-based high risk food sold in village grocery stores is
consumed by the villagers. The school lunch program is below standard with respect to quantity and



-74-
Appendix D
Page 17 of 21
quality of food served.  Overall, the food practices in the four villages were found to be below
standard.  However, the data does not appear to explain why such levels of malnutrition exist,
especially since the calorific intake appears to be close to the standard and the diet appears to have
sufficient variety. Still, this data may be useful to serve as baseline data against which future nutrition
data may be compared. The sanitation survey also appears to lack depth in not collecting information
on the disposal of human-waste and garbage.
Vector Survey
56.        The first and second vector surveys were conducted in 1993 and 1994, each at five sites
around the dam project area, including one at a resettlement community. These data show that at
present, the Pak Mun Hydropower project has had no impact on the distribution of all mosquito vectors
on malaria (Anopheles dirus, minimus and maculatus) in the project area. All three mosquito vectors
are present with a low population density in the project area.  Preliminary data on Japanese B
encephalitis and DHF vectors suggest presence with high population density for these mosquitos in
villages at and above the dam site. The findings on these vectors suggest low risk for malaria and high
risk for the outbreak of DHF.
57.        The first and second snail surveys were conducted in 1993 and 1994 during the dry
season. The surveys were conducted in four areas each, three in the rapids and one area in slow
running water. In addition, 21 other sites on the banks of the river were investigated for the presence
of Neotricula aperta, and four of these areas were found to show presence of Neotricula aperta. The
result of the first survey show that N. aperta existed in the Mun River between the Saphue and Tana
Rapids, and the snails preferred running water with clean substrates. In slow running water, such as at
Ban Chad, development of the snail is not as good as in the rapids. The second survey showed similar
results, except dam impoundment prevented the execution of studies in deep waters at Tam Plong Rapid
and Ban Chad. In effect, the second survey was conducted exclusively in fast running water at the
rapids, and use of this data alone for comparative purposes may be misleading, since it is known that
snails thrive differently in fast and clean waters versus slow and/or muddy waters.  In addition, snails
tend to migrate between places, depending on flow conditions and quality of the waters (i.e. clean or
dirty). It is necessary to conduct the survey using a variety of longitudinal sampling points to derive
meaningful conclusions from the data. However, all snail samples collected during the two surveys did
not show schistosome infection.
58.        During the Khong Chiem Workshop in 1995, the Division of General Communicable
Diseases responsible for the surveys proposed a surveillance and prevention program for schistosomiasis
in the Pak Mun area. The program consisted of snail survey, human behavior study, development of
methodology for surveillance of the infection, and transfer of prevention technology to local health
officials. The proposal was approved in principle with a provision of Baht 700,000 for the work-plan.
EGAT's Health Services Program at Pak Mun
59.        The Medical Division of EGAT had started two health care programs for residents of
villages affected by the dam project to: (a) provide medical services to the affected population; and (b)
annually monitor schistosomiasis and other water-borne/communicable diseases in the project area. A
mobile medical unit was formed to provide regular visits to the 15 affected villages for treatment of



-75-
Appendix D
Page 18 of 21
patients and conduct of stool examinations. EGAT provided good quality services to affected villages,
and these services are to continue until the end of FY96.
60.        The mobile medical health unit has provided medical services since 1993. The services
had integrated the monitoring of schistosomiasis and liver fluke infections by conducting stool
examinations for evidence of these diseases. EGAT's monitoring of stool examinations showed a
decrease in the positive incidence of infection for one or more of these infections from a rate of 39% in
1993 to 23% in 1995. Presence of schistosome eggs was not seen in any of these examinations/cases.
Stool survey for workers at the dam construction site, a large number of whom were migrant workers,
was also conducted in 1993 and 1995. In 1993, 24.3% of workers tested positive for infection, while
in 1995 only 11.4% tested positive. However, it need to be pointed out that a large number of workers
had left the site in 1994 with completion of dam construction, and therefore no certain conclusions can
be drawn on the decreases observed in infection rates without subjecting the data to further analysis.
Moreover, stool examinations were conducted using the Kato technique, both for EGAT's monitoring
and the MOPH surveillance. Some intestinal infections, especially protozoal and tape worm, can be
missed with the use of this technique.
Research Work by Mahidol University
61.        The faculty of tropical medicine conducted research work on the ability of Neotricula
aperta to colonize in the man-made reservoir in Sirindhorn. The research work was also extended to
determine if schistosomiasis infection is present in people and animals around this man-made reservoir.
The study found no Neotricula aperta in potential habitats in this reservoir. The results of the study
also indicate that there is no infection of schistosoma mekongi in humans, domestic animals and wild
rodents in this area. The mid-term review mission in 1993 observed that further study is required to
find out why Neotricula aperta does not colonize the man-made reservoir. The ICR mission has been
unable to determine if this issue is being investigated.
Waste Water Plant for the City of Ubon and Pibulmangsaharn District
62.        At appraisal, waste water from the city of Ubol and Pibulmangsaharn district several
kilometers upstream to the dam site had been released into the Mun River without being treated, despite
the fact that these areas are highly populated. To improve the health of the river and reduce potential
for serious infection of the river/reservoir, a waste water treatment plant was planned for the city and
district, especially as it was also expected that impoundment of the dam would increase the population
and number of communities downstream. A wastewater treatment facility is being built at Ubon with a
processing capacity of 22,000 cu m/day. The treatment system consists of a two-lagoon aerated
stabilization/settling pond. Wastewater will be collected from interceptors from present outfalls into the
Mun River of individual collection mains from different districts in the city of Ubon. The system is
expected to reduce the BOD loads to the river, when all the collectors in the district are connected to
the treatment facility.
Monitoring Progress and Compliance
63.        The issues involved in the implementation of the HIM plan are quite complex. The Bank
has not always been successful in obtaining monitoring information on the mitigation plan designed for



-76-
Appendix D
Page 19 of 21
implementation by the MOPH. MOPH's performance on these tasks had been tardy, and the agency
has not been solicitous in providing regular information on progress of the HIM  plan.  EGAT's
performance on its health surveillance and assistance program has been satisfactory, and EGAT has
regularly kept the Bank apprised of its activities in this regard.
64.        The responsibilities for executing MOPH's tasks were spread across a few entities in
MOPH. During the mid-term review in 1993 and a follow-up review in 1994, the Bank strongly
recommended that a committee be formed with sufficient authority to coordinate, supervise and monitor
the HIM implementation plan. It was also reconmmended that the HIM plan be critically revised and its
implementation measures/objectives be improved on shortcomings identified during the reviews. These
recommendations were not implemented, and in the period following the reviews, it was not possible to
assess if there was any substantive or significant progress.
65.        The ICR mission noted that a committee has finally been organized in March 1995, which
appears to address recommendations made by the Bank with regard to supervision, monitoring, and
coordination. However, based on information available to the Bank's local health consultant during the
Khong Chiem workshop in July 1995, there is cause for concern with regard to the scope of some tasks
and methodologies to be pursued on some of these tasks.  Accordingly, a critique and set of
recommendations had been forwarded on the proposed work-plan following the workshop. The Bank
intends to monitor this program until its conclusion in 1998, and has impressed upon EGAT to continue
monitoring MOPH's implementation of the HIM plan (Completion Aide-Memoire, Appendix A).



-77-
Appendix D
Page 20 of 21
Table DI: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION PLAN
Summary and Budget
Item  |                      Work                           Budget  Revised  Actual
_____I                                                   _|Baht m.  Budget
1    National Park Conservation (Forestry Department):     16.2       17.6    17.7
(a) Warning System for Tourist Safety
(b) Fully Equipped National Park Protection Unit
(c) Fully Equipped Security Guard Unit
(d) Fully Equipped First Aid Station
(e) National Park Patrol Road
2     Tourist Attraction Enhancement (EGAT):               16.0       17.7    17.7
(a) Two Suspension Bridges to Don Tana Island
(b) Water Regulation to Preserve/Enhance Rapids
3     Fisheries Development (Department of Fisheries): 1/  15.9       21.1    16.1
(a) Fisheries Increment and Development Center
(b) Fisheries Resource Conservation/Control Center
(c) Fisheries Migration Ladder
(d) Fisheries Migration Study
4     Health Impact Mitigation (Ministry of Health,  1/     5.5        5.5     4.7
EGAT, Mahidol University):
(a) Monitoring/Prevention of Water Borne Diseases
(b) Improving Health Status of Affected Population
(c) Research Work on Schistosomiasis
5     Land Transport Improvement (Highways Dept.):         11.0       11.0    11.0
(a) Improvement of Highway and Two New Bridges
6     Archaeological Salvage (Fine Arts Department):        1.4        1.5     1.5
(a) Survey and Exploration of Archaeological Sites
(b) Restoration of Pak Dom Noi Inscription
7     Public Relations Campaign (EGAT):                    25.5       25.0    25.0
(a) Community Relations Program
(b) Public Information Program
8    Environmental Monitoring (EGAT, OEPP): 1/             27.8       22.2    17.8
(a) Monitoring Implementation of Environmental
Impact Mitigation Plan
(b) Telemetering System for Flood Control
9     Project Monitoring and Evaluation (Govt. Committee,    2.0      2.0      2.0
EGAT, NESDB):
(a) Monitoring by Governmental Committee
(b) Evaluation By EGAT and NESDB
Contingency                                          15.0       0.0  | 0.0
Total                  [136.3    1 123.6  1 113.5
1/ To be continued.



-78-
Appendix D
Page 21 of 21
Table D2: THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries Development Plan (FY95-97) and Accomplishments
Unit                                    Plan                                  Results for
Activities              No/No/rn2           Total     |    FY95       J    FY96           FY97              FY95
1. Fish pond culture         case/pond/m2       500/500/-        150/150/-       150/150/-     200/200/-       150/187/88,944 m2
2. Backyard pond              case/pond/m2       500/500/3,000   200/200/1,200   150/150/900   150/150/900    200/200/1,200
3. School pond
- earthen pond              school/pond/m2    8/8/6,880        8/3/6,880       -             -               8/8/6,800
- cement pond                                 30/30/360        10/10/120       10/10/120     10/10/120       10/10/120
4. Rice-fish culture          case/pond/m2       45/45/144,000    15/15/48,000    15/15/48,000  15/15/48,000    15/15/93,920
5. Training                   trainee            1,805           635             535           535             635
6. Stocking in reservoir:
- fish                      fish (million)     17              7               5             5               7
- giant prawn               ---                17              7               5             5               7
7. Public relationship       time                60              20              20            20              20
8. Pre and Post Eval.        report              2                       1       -             I               1






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3423-TH)
APPENDIX E - MAE MOH MINE EXPANSION






-79-
Appendix E
Page 1 of 8
A. ENVIRONMENT AT MAE MOH
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL AREA
A. Enviromnent at Mae Moh
1.           At project appraisal in  1991, environmental impact mitigation plans included
implementation of measures for strengthening environmental control and monitoring capabilities at Mae
Moh in anticipation of the completion of power plant Units 10 and 11 (2x300 MW) soon and Units 12
and 13 (2x300 MW) in 1995. With increasing use of lignite, the potential existed for significant adverse
environmental effects from emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and particulates. The increase
in pollution loads in runoff waters and water bodies downstream in the Mae Moh valley was also a
concern with expansion of mining activities. EGAT had already initiated studies on acid rain and effect
of SO2 on plant ecology on high terrain and had agreed to review the studies' findings with the Bank and
take necessary steps to control and monitor SO2 levels. EGAT had also agreed at appraisal to formulate
and execute programs to reduce dust levels and improve water quality.
Air Pollution Incident (1992)
2.           Beginning in March 1992, after the commissioning of Units 10 and 11, there were
sporadic reports/complaints from places as far away as the Pratoo Pha Military Camp (22 km from Mae
Moh) and Tha Si School in Ban Daeng County about respiratory and other health effects from high
concentrations of sulfur dioxide. These reports culminated in a health-related incident in October 1992,
when about 1,000 villagers from the Ban Sob Pad area experienced acute respiratory distress and had to
be treated at the hospital for symptoms of exposure to air containing high SO2 concentrations. The health
effects were also accompanied by measurements of high SO2 levels, frequently exceeding hourly average
concentrations of 2,000 ug/cu m between 10 a.m. and noon.
3.           Apparently, meteorological and wind/mixing patterns in the Mae Moh valley are quite
complex, especially during the cool season beginning in October.  Subsequent investigations and
modelling studies indicate the valley experiences serious inversion-fumigation effects. Meteorological
conditions are frequently such in the cool season as to prevent rapid mixing of emissions from power
plants with air above and outside the valley in the early mornings. The pollutant gases from the power
plants, especially SO2 are entrapped in mist/fog droplets and fall to the ground well before mixing
conditions allow high ground level SO2 conditions to occur. This hypothetically explains the time lag
observed between the onset of symptoms and peak SO2 readings experienced after 10 a.m.
Short- Medium-Term Mitigation and Control Measures
4.           Following the October 1992 incident, the Government immediately prepared an action
plan consisting of a diverse set of measures, which were to be implemented by EGAT, the Lampang
Province, and the Ministry of Science, Technology, and Environrnent (MOSTE). A working group
consisting of EGAT, Department of Health (DOH) and Pollution Control Department (PCD) was
established to implement the plan. Under this plan, PCD and EGAT were responsible for: (a) monitoring
air quality and meteorological conditions in Mae Moh; (b) development of a dispersion/mathematical



-80-
Appendix E
Page 2 of 8
model describing ground level air pollution levels based on meteorological conditions and air quality
readings from monitoring sites; and (c) selection of appropriate sulfur capture technology for installation
on power plant units in the immediate future. DOH and EGAT were responsible for providing medical
services to affected people and for carrying out an epidemiology study on acute and chronic effects on
affected people. In addition, the following interim measures were instituted, especially during the cool
season, to control pollution problems before long-term solutions are put in place:
a.     Mining operations were modified to require stocking of lignite from lower sulfur content
seams for use in the cool season, especially in the period between 6 a.m. and noon, when
inversion-fumigation effects are likely. Effective blending and quality control procedures
were instituted to ensure that feed fuel quality is consistent for safe operations;
b.     Power plants were required to operate at much lower capacity during the cool season.
Since the incident in 1992, the capacity utilization at Mae Moh in the cool season has
been below 1,000 MW, compared to an existing total capacity of 2,625 MW in 1995.
Capacity reduction is ensured, especially during mornings under adverse meteorological
conditions. To reduce the economic impact of lower capacity factors, plant maintenance
is scheduled during the cool season;
c.     Environmental and meteorological monitoring equipment, including equipment planned
for installation under Bank Loans 3138-TH and 3423-TH, was procured to adequately
cover EGAT's monitoring needs, in the light of the enhanced awareness of ground level
pollution effects resulting from the dispersion modelling exercises;
d.     An automated ambient air monitoring network was installed at Mae Moh and surrounding
areas in the valley. EGAT established eight continuous monitoring stations and PCD
operated three additional continuous monitoring stations as part of this network. Data
from this network is transferred continuously to the power plant, and EGAT and PCD
offices in Bangkok;
e.     EGAT installed continuous stack emissions monitoring equipment on power plant Units
4 - 11 to monitor SO,, and NO,. PCD also conducted periodic monitoring of plant
emission levels;
f.    In 1995, EGAT completed the installation of equipment to increase its capabilities for
monitoring meteorological conditions with Sodar/RASS. This equipment replaced that
obtained on loan from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the USA,
following the 1992 incident;
g.     An air dispersion model was developed with assistance provided by US EPA. The model
developed is being used in Mae Moh as part of the early warning system; and
h.     During May 1993-June 1994, the PCD, under technical assistance provided by the Bank,
reviewed air quality standards, especially the 1-hr standard for SO2. An interim 1-hr air
quality standard of 1,300 ug/cu m has been established for areas around the Mae Moh
complex.



-81-
Appendix E
Page 3 of 8
5.           In addition to the above mitigation measures, control and remedial actions, the provincial
authorities at Lampang, at the behest of the Thai cabinet, instituted continuous health monitoring of the
local population through the Mae Moh district and subdistrict hospitals. The authorities also continuously
provided diagnostic and treatment services to affected people using mobile units, especially during the
cool season. EGAT assisted in providing diagnostic and other medical services to Muban subdistrict on
a weekly basis through a mobile unit, and dispatched an emergency unit into Muban during high SO2
alerts.
6.           Under direction from a compensation committee established by the Ministry of Interior,
EGAT provided a compensation of Baht 1.7 million to the affected people. The compensation was
allocated on the following basis: 50% for impact on health, 41% for impact on plants and the rest for
impact on animals. EGAT also provided funding of Baht 14.5 million to finance a health impact study
to be completed in 1996. The rest of the funding for the estimated Baht 31 million completion cost for
this study is to be derived from the Government.
Long-Term Control Measures
7.           EGAT had organized a number of studies to assess the impact of increased mining and
power development in Mae Moh. Lampang and Mae Kham. Following the 1992 incident, EGAT and
PCD, with consultant assistance, completed a study to determine the effect of using particular control
strategies on hypothetical power plant combinations consisting of existing units in Mae Moh as well as
those planned in Lampang and Mae Kham. An improved dispersion model based on the US EPA
SCREEN2 computer program was used to determine the effect and effectiveness of control strategies to
meet different 1-hr quality standards for SO2. The results of these studies show that the FGD control
technologies planned to be installed by EGAT on Mae Moh Units 8-13 are consistenit with the least cost
solutions indicated by this study. Adoption of the strategies planned by EGAT for Units 4-7 would
essentially reduce SO2 ground level concentrations to levels below those mandated by the 1-hr quality
standard.
8.           As summarized in the completion Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), EGAT has designed and
put into place a scheme to retrofit power units at Mae Moh with SO, control technology. Power Units
12 and 13 (2x300 MW) completed in 1995 were fitted with wet limestone scrubbers. The scrubbers have
been operating effectively since their installation with sulfur capture efficiency in the 90 to 95% range.
Units 10 and 11 (2x300 MW) are being fitted with wet FGDs which are scheduled to go into operation
by the end of 1996, and Units 8 and 9 (2x300 MW) will be similarly retrofitted shortly thereafter. By
the end of 1997, 1,800 MW of generation capacity out of a total of 2.625 at Mae Moh will be operated
with FGDs. This is expected to significantly curb the SO, emission problem at the complex.
9.           EGAT also plans to retrofit Units 4-7 (4x 150 MW) with FGDs, and the tendering process
to install these is planned to commence in mid-1996. EGAT does not plan to fit Units 1-3 (3x75 MW)
with FGDs, since the units are approaching the end of their useful life. However, even well before
completion of installation of devices on all of Units 4-7, air quality in the valley is expected to meei the
1-hr standard with normal operation of the power station at full capacity. Plans for building additional
lignite based units in Mae Kham and Lampang have been shelved, pending solution of the SO2 problem
at Mae Moh.



--82-
Appendix E
Page 4 of 8
Air Quality at Mae Moh Post 1992 Incident
10.           With the installation of a real-time air quality monitoring system and measures put into
effect to curb emissions as discussed in para. 4, SO2 levels in the valley have been reduced considerably.
For calendar year 1994 for which tabulated data is readily available, the 24-hr SO, standard established
for Thailand has been essentially complied with. The 1-hr interim standard established for Mae Moh has
been complied with for 99.8% of the annual hrs at locations which are most likely to show the highest
SO2 concentrations. Occasionally, the interim 1-hr standard at one or more monitoring sites has been
exceeded during the cool season. However, when this occurs, SO2 levels generally do not often exceed
the hourly standard by more than 50%. The NO, levels in the valley are well below the 1-hr standard,
and there are no compliance problems on this issue.
11.           EGAT has developed a computer model for simulating total suspended particulate (TSP)
levels in the mining areas. The 24-hr air quality standard with regard to TSP levels has been exceeded
significantly and frequently close to and around the mining operations in the 1993 and 1994 periods. The
frequency of the violations in locations away from the mining and power plant operations is relatively
small, and the violations generally occur for less than 15% of the annual number of hours. Significant
violations are confined to a few monitoring locations, such as Ban Hua Fai, Ban Koo and Ban Huai
Khing, within EGAT housing and residential areas.
12.           TSP standards are exceeded, if and when they occur, in the dry months, when water
supply in the minepit is relatively scarce and roads over which trucks ply to transport overburden to dump
sites stay dry for long periods. The ICR mission had the opportunity to observe contractor overburden
removal operations. The mission feels that these operations need to be monitored closely to reduce dust
levels. It needs to be emphasized that, when TSP levels are viewed in the context of the Bank's hourly
standard of 500 ug/cu m, the problems encountered in the residential areas are less serious.
Water Quality at Mae Moh
13.           Water quality is monitored at Mae Moh through sampling at 27 locations involving water
streams, supply and receiving reservoirs, ponds, mine sumps, and power plant effluent. Water quality
in the downstream reservoirs, which ultimately receive the waters from the mine-sumps, overburden
areas, power plant effluent, and diversion channels, has not achieved acceptable norms during the
implementation of the project. Even though the overall loading of the total solid dissolved content is high
but acceptable, the conductivity, total sulfate, alkalinity and hardness levels are high and exceed
Thailand's standards. The calcium and sulfate levels in downstream reservoirs generally exceed the
drinking water quality standards, and in the case of sulfate the level is about 50 to 100% higher than the
standard for much of the year. The quality of waters at Mae Moh is satisfactory with regard to heavy,
trace and toxic metal species.  For the most part, none are present in measurable levels or levels
approaching environmental quality standards for surface or industrial waters.
14.           Apparently, water from the upstream supply reservoirs is high in dissolved solids, sulfate
and hardness levels, even though these are within general water quality standards. There is a pick-up in
concentrations as a result of dissolved solid infusions from  overburden runoffs, overflows from mine-
sumps in the wet season, and some contributions from the soil and basin flows. The result is a large
increase in concentration levels as the waters make their way to the downstream reservoirs and streams.



-83-
Appendix E
Page 5 of 8
The ICR mission had not been able to observe data on the various balances to identify specific levels of
contributions and sources.
15.           During implementation of the project, EGAT completed creation of three wetland areas
to act as buffer and bio-processing medium for waters flowing between settling ponds and downstream
water bodies. The ICR mission observed some marginal improvements in total dissolved solid content
of water traversing through these wetlands; however, improvements in dissolved solid content did not
show seasonal consistency. Sulphate content levels also appear to be largely unaffected. No conclusions
on the effectiveness of wetlands can be drawn at this time. It is necessary to acquire more wide-ranging
data to assess the effect of different parameters (flow, residence time, wetland plant density, etc) before
the potential of the wetlands as a solution can be determined. EGAT may need to evolve other strategies
to supplement the wetland option.
16.           EGAT may be well served in conducting studies and/or calculations in the short term to
determine if the sulphate problem is tied to the high levels of dissolved SO2 present in rain and other
forms of precipitation around Mae Moh. 'Iheoretically, the SO2 present in runoff waters can undergo
catalytic reactions with dissolved oxygen, water and limes present in soils to yield sulfate ions or sulfuric
acid. These conversion reactions are the basis of some wet control technologies, and metal ions (such
as ferrous/ferric and cuprous/cupric) required to rapidly catalyze the reactions are generally present within
the soil and runoff waters. Should such be the case, then control technology being installed in Mae Moh
should have a significant effect on the sulphate problem in future.
17.           Sulphate, present as a suitable ion, promotes plant growth and quite often is used as a
fertilizer. EGAT has established a sinking fund to finance a long-standing program to reclaim mined-out
land and overburden dumps, and plant trees on reclaimed land. The emphasis of this program has been
on planting trees which take a very long time to mature and assist in the formation of soil. However,
this existing program could be modified by including in its activities undergrowth formation (small plants
and grasses) strategies in areas where trees have been planted and others awaiting tree planting. Soil and
undergrowth formation is a fast and effective strategy for retention of sulphate, calcium and water in the
ecosystem and soil. Undergrowth is also effective in dust control. Water pollution originating from
mined-out areas and dumps can be effectively controlled by strategies suggested in this paragraph.
Environmental Studies Completed by EGAT
18.           A number of important studies were completed during the implementation of this project
as briefly discussed below.
Air Dispersion Model
19.           Following the 1992 incident, US AID and US EPA provided assistance in developing an
air dispersion model for the Mae Moh area. EGAT reviewed and collected background data for
development of the model. The emission and meteorological data were used to develop an air dispersion
model in the USA for predicting ground level concentrations of pollutants based on specific emission and
meteorological conditions. The model is being used at Mae Moh as part of the early warning system.



-84-
Appendix E
Page 6 of 8
System-Wide Control Strategies for Mae Moh Power Plants
20.           This study was completed in 1994. Results of the study on the effectiveness of control
strategies planned to be installed by EGAT on power Units 4 -11 at Mae Moh have been discussed in
para. 7. The study results show that the technology options formulated by EGAT are effective for control
of SO, to levels below air pollution standards. The results also show that solutions being planned for
implementation are least cost strategies. Further, the study compares costs for installing new coal plants
in Upper Southern Thailand with new ihgnite based plants in the Mae Moh area. The results show that
plants constructed at a coastal location in Upper Southern Thailand can meet ambient air quality standards
and be more cost effective than new plants in the Mae Moh area.
Acidic Deposition Study
21.           This study was completed in October 1994. Under the study, the current levels of acidic
deposition in Northern Thailand resulting from the operation of the Mae Moh power plants were assessed
using a network of 15 precipitation collectors around Northern Thailand. The resulting data collected
was analyzed using an acid deposition model. The study also predicted the deposition levels and the
relative intensity of these deposits vis-a-vis hypothetical lignite based generation scenarios in Mae Moh.
Lampang and Mae Kham. The simulation calculations show that total wet and dry sulfate deposition rates
originating from Mae Moh plants range from 33 kg/ha-year to 257 kg/ha-year in large areas downwind
from the plants. During the rainy season, maximum deposition occurs in the first 20 km downwind and
corresponds to a deposition level between 61 kg/ha-year and 96 kg/ha-year. The significance of these
results may be weighed by considering the fact that in North America, wet acidic deposition values above
20 kg/ha-year are considered a justification for protection of sensitive areas.
22.           The modelling study found that no significant area would exist which would have high
acidic deposition rates (above 30 kg/ha-rainy season) after installation of control technology being planned
for Units 4 - 13. Thus, it is highly probable that solutions being implemented by EGAT would be
effective in significantly reducing the size of the area having wet acidic deposition rates above 10 kg/ha-
year.
High Terrain Forest Ecology Study
23.           A draft of this study was completed in September 1995, and the Bank was provided access
to it. EGAT recently completed review of the draft, and has provided the authors with comments for
consideration and inclusion into the revised study to be available soon. The conclusions discussed here
are tentative, and are subject to change. The study states that forest ecosystems around the Mae Moh
area have been negatively impacted from the original natural state. The structure and functions of the
ecosystems are in a deteriorated state. Despite a more than tenfold increase in SO, emissions over the
last dozen years, the emission levels do not appear to have contributed significantly in a negative manner
to the functioning of the forest ecosystem.  Plant tissue shows the presence of sulfur; however,
concentrations are low and therefore are not accountable to date for the sparse and deteriorated vegetation
in some areas. Leaves and trees for the most part do not appear to exhibit wilting and yellow spotting,
which usually are symptomatic of exposure to high concentrations of SO_.
24.           The forest ecosystems appear to have been most influenced by human disturbance factors,



-85-
Appendix E
Page 7 of 8
forest fires and m.ning activities. The vegetation of the terrain is sparse also because rain occurs only
for a small fraction of tlue year, the earth surface is generally arid, and the soil has low fertility. Some
of the natural and human-intluenced factors, together, appear to be critical for the low abundance of wild
life and insect populations in some areas. The soil in the Mae Moh area has a high buffering capacity,
and can neutralize sulfur-based acidity to prevent damage to plants and undergrowth. There appears to
be no effect of sulfur depositions on soil fauna, such as nematodes, invertebrates, and microorganisms.
Seasonal changes on soils appear to be more critical in the relative abundance of these species between
seasons. The study concludes that acidic depositions and high SO, levels in the air do not appear to have
negatively influenced wild life populations, rock structures, soil conditions, and both surface and
subsurface water quality in the high terrain area.
B. Institutional Strengthening in the Enviromnental Area
25.           At appraisal, it was agreed that the Government would undertake to implement a
component aimed at strengthening the environmental regulatory agencies with specific reference to the
mining and power sectors. The agencies concerned with the two sectors were the NEB, DIW, DMR and
PWD. The main items included in the component were: (a) strengthening of the capabilities of the
agencies through technical assistance through a review of: (i) organizational functions and methods; (ii)
Factory and Minerals standards; and (iii) standards and designs; and (b) technical assistance and training
of staff in:  (i) monitoring of emissions;  (ii) use of monitoring equipment;  (iii) reviewing of
environmental impact assessments (ElAs); and (iv) design and operation of sewage systems; and (c)
strengthening the environmental monitoring networks and procurement of laboratory and allied
equipment.
26.           The budget need for implementing the program on technical assistance outlined above was
estimated at US$5.7 million, out of which between US$4 and US$5 million was estimated for equipment
purchases. The Government was supposed to allocate funds for equipment purchases. It was expected
that technical assistance and training, estimated to cost above US$1 million, would be implemented
through grant assistance; however, should grant funds prove to be inaccessible, the Government would
allocate the funds from its sources. Expert assistance was supposed to be implemented over two years
beginning in 1993, to be followed by training of employees from critical agencies beginning in 1994 and
ending in 1995, or thereabouts. Equipment purchases were slated to begin immediately in 1993 and
completed in a period of three years.
Expert Assistance and Training
27.           Procurement of expert assistance and implementation of training were considerably
delayed due to limited capacity on the part of implementing agencies to formulate/write a good technical
proposal, and seek grant assistance using such a proposal. PCD attempted to obtain government funding
for this activity in FY94; however, justifications and detailed work-plans presented to the Government
were considered to be inadequate to warrant budgetary allocations from FY94 funds.
28.          In late 1994, the Bank secured grant assistance for preparation of a detailed work-plan
for personnel training. A workshop, attended by key staff from various agencies concerned with this,



-86-
Appendix E
Page 8 of 8
was held in April 1995 to assess training needs and identify ways/means for implementing the training
program. The framework, scope, and budget needs for the training program were identified during this
workshop. The funding needed to execute the training program was estimated at Baht 48 million. The
funding needed for FY96 was estimated at Baht 5 million; however, only Baht 2.5 million was allocated
by the Government for FY96.
29.          In late 1994, the E7 group of international utilities, introduced to the Government by the
Bank, agreed to provide free expert assistance and training to trainees from key agencies of the
Govermnent (PCD. OEPP, DEQP, DIW and EGAT) over a one year period during 1995/96.
Implementation of this program commenced only in May 1996 and is expected to last for about a year.
program.
Acquisition of Equipment
30.          The procurement of equipment was planned at appraisal and carried out exclusively using
government funds. Because of the 1992 incident, the equipment purchases for PCD were prioritized to
meet the needs of the situation, and hence equipment specifications were modified to address the Mae
Moh needs. PCD was allocated US$4.6 million in 1994, which was used to procure two meteorological
monitoring stations, 1 mobile air quality monitoring unit, one automatic rain-sampling/monitoring station,
eight semi-permanent air and noise monitoring stations, and a computer to form a system for data
handling and processing. DMR was allocated US$159,000 to make equipment purchases, while DIW
was not allocated any funds for equipment purchases. All in all, less equipment was acquired compared
to those to be procured under the appraisal plans; however, the scope of some of the procured equipment
was considerably more in terms of capabilities, in light of the needs following the 1992 incident.
Revised Enviromnental Standards
31.          During negotiation of the loan the Bank stressed the importance of establishing a time-
frame for the establishment of emission standards for power plants and industries. Emission standards
for new power plants were issued by the Government in January 1996. In regard to Mae Moh, the
Government has issued a 1-hour ambient SO2 standard and has directed EGAT to fit FGDs on all power
plants except Unit 1-3 which will be soon retired. Emission standards for industry are still under
consideration.
32.          In 1995, NEB modified/ evolved some new ambient air quality standards which relate
to the power subsector. A new 1-hr standard (780 ug/cu m) was established for SO,, and the carbon
oxide 1-hr standard was reduced from 50 mg/cu m to 32 mg/cu m. There were no changes made in the
standard for NOx. The 24-hr TSP standard remains the same as before at 330 ug/cu m; however, the
Governmient introduced a new standard on particulates with diameter of less than 10 microns, which
previously did not exist. The 24-hr ambient air quality standard for particulates below 10 microns has
been set at 120 ug/cu m.



MAP SECTION






MYANMAR                                               M..                                                                                                  MYANMAR%J
kPo; /\?Cio.anuot    </                              LAO  PEOPLE'S
I MAEAeN 1,   1 Ihw '\~ 1DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                        F
Aphi,pap  5, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEOPMCRATC,NJ
:)   UMPANGL ! t' fi       t)                                                                                     2          t K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AmPUCH A)   A
CHIANGMI,A 2               L              OH
5     3MW                             4    :kA   pN-
o   Lo hunp. 2/~ C  3 x 75  /                       '              NAM NGUM
/   Iorp ng 2 4^it  5'>    >   |                      T  ~~135 MW
~5OOTMwNoaX    REGION 7/ 4                                 5'-
-1                                         75 NAMNGAO W                                                                              Utt ---  i  - _  INDONESIA  ...SINGAPORE
"t L'mA'UANSholok    /0             j                                      AoOr        LtTUon|nan,         I
\\ 7     hth                            o  Sjf| iNA BPUANG NAPOG                                                 1           ~ Iv Th.M.T'TA'oS.T5.,T,,4
\                         CoMe LLAN> KRS                                                  V  1UORIAA!toM2lnluec oehu n
9..'  *                       5                        75"                  6Mm                 .                           Ti Si TTTTTO rH
UM"O'               TMO COULABON K12                                                                                         IhDON          j
3      l       SRNAA     W /W                                                               i
k                      pTeT 5           1         /0MW SIphan                        IT... _  -                                                               1r So-I'll"
f~~~~~~~PC    PIiHTA   --t -- kh STCTIMTT  fl                                                           NoOnosUCEA        ;
t~~~~~~               ~~~~ NoCh                                                           G MER    A5Ly X601OFTALN
7   ~ ~~   ~       OTTO KneT    A        Him 1         1-1
,   r  Sgn9kh am      9 RACHA  ; i_ L ban hqni               ;~~~~~~ii             T
/,9                            sTABmo.                       E. *. .\                                             . 500  . ..
(0                           T\          BOg                          ,,,                 -.-  A030kV,Pitl
@~ &                                                 I                IL             LL           IL                     Thermol POwCr  lr A
J5TahIi:       (CA.,               '$ tHr G iO    N                2               Z
-t  LPpLoT,  LMTAPPEOG         NA-CA 6440  RAICOASIMA I                           A
iso  ~      ~         ~        ~          w~~  ----           i;! (      7O  BOAf,       1  ,i,,,                                                 - -        R9hnbUdr
Ph4  0460 SIAGBnO    ,,ZILin   '~    _ STAO _-1    Meah                                                                   MhIo OSBOhB                  ~-                        1 _
3MW3 7 l0iMW                Nngs  S 7          5 YOT P. LCSen Wil
'5               54 MW -                - 1'           So 1)  N.                               PMIO 7C7  Mi,                                    D
TH PEG SRINAG AR                                                                                Ch .
T261r6U W NA       K.                            %.kh                                  Y%LAkuCHEA
2 X '19%                        P                              -          ( '                                         THAILAND
ig7   Poo   BANGKOK  k.oh%ssoo~,k~ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY
B  91-0  BANG PAPKN                   \OF THAIAANDi
2.550 4   W OTS600  0W 2
S ue3,,                                                            THIRD POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SIAlC~HA         *BnB.T
C  ~~~~~PT.TTt.~~~~~~~~~sTi  ? ~~~~~~~~ ~UNDER                                            oTI/RE
K, RACHAN     T Ph.'62 b9606 IOSENG                                                            CPRSRICTG        C1910          PROJECT
A ,ic nib  ici ia                      19OAW0 '                                        P I          lIS,,                                                                !)Z       mine Exploralion
S,~~~~   ~ ~ ~   j  --    b,,nTtn.6o,i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 IV Tasiso   ie
--                 ~~~~~~230 kVTasiso  Lie
~~\ ~~~PranbiTTi                           \~~~~~~~.nToT'      -------            -        --   5--15 kV Tranmisio  Line
s                                                                                                                              4~~~~~~00 0                          500 kV Subsltation
A  A           A                     ~~~~~~~~~~230 kV Substation
*  IT                            -           0             a             S                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~115 kV Sobsotinn
P-ahsap KOci Pan.                                                         IL              L           U.                      Thermal Pome Plants
/   'i                                                         0             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z   01   0       Hydra Po-e Plants
(ul                        ~~~~~~Regional Cantpnl Center
'l/  f  IJt---/                                                                          RngioanB ...d.ries
0        06                20                 300
'  lCliiinT*anl~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ID.TR
ph..)
SU0  iArOl   i               L   7j5P   MWCLogWlan
RAJJlA5P"lA        \4HTI
iMa  a m/  SoPA M                                                                                                       NORTH BANGKOK~~
Ikh-  5, Th..-,.                                                     2 . ~~~~~~~~~~1075 MW L1    h
477   i.~~~~~~~~~~>./                                                           * Center                          Ronka~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hd.phisok
Ci B6WIS5O                       %P- 3                                                       BANGKOK NO                    TH .LO   sl
Cndcr*' '                                                                                 70 m11.anlsp
(T-g)                                                                                                                              8-~~~~~~~~~~~~Li ->  og Phi.
HAT HAL 1~~~,  A'                \i-\SOUTHKKBANGKOKR
nAto 2' - ..l'...,,   3. '1                                                                            T METROPO ITA30AMW
ZZ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      *M                                        SmiSala            ot                              00M
I    '  , -                Thonkapi                         i o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ow ~ ~ o
)~~sn&MA'-AYSI









IMAGING
Report No:       15744
Type: ICR



