Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19428
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIJI
HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 3188-FIJ)
June 25, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
Papua New Guinea and Pacific Islands
Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and maybe used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Fiji Dollar (F$)
1989              $1 = F$1.47
1990              $1 = F$1.52
1991              $1 = F$1.49
1992              $1 = F$1.54
1993              $1 = F$1.54
1994              $1 = F$1.45
1995              $1 = F$1.41
1996              $1 = F$1.41
1997              $1 = F$1.45
1998              $1 = F$1.96
1999              $1 = F$1.96 (ICR mission rate)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
GOF    -  Government of Fiji
HA      -  Housing Authority
FEA     -  Fiji Electricity Authority
ICR     -  Implementation Completion Report
IDC     -  Interest During Construction
IRR     -  Internal Rate of Return
MHUD  -  Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MIS     -  Management Information Systems
MLGHE -  Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Environment
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
NLTB   -  Native Lands Trust Board
PCR     -  Project Completion Report
PHRD   -  Population and Human Resources Development, Grant from Japan
PRB     -  Public Rental Board
PWD    -  Public Works Department
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SOE     -  Statements of Expenditure
TA      -  Technical Assistance
TCPD   -  Town and Country Planning Department
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager    Keshav Varma, EASUR
Country Director   Klaus Rohland, EACNI
Task Manager      Heinrich K. Unger, EASES



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................                                                       iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
A. Project Objectives and  Description ........................................................                        l
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................                          3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................6
D. Project Sustainability ........................................................7
E. Bank  Performance ........................................................8
F. Borrower Performance ........................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................1.1
H. Future Operation ........................................................1.1
I. Key  Lessons Learned .......................................................                                      12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................................                                             14
Table  1: Summary  of Assessments ........................................................                            14
Table 2:  Related  Bank  Loans/IDA  Credits ..................................................... 15
Table 3: Project Timetable ........................................................                                  15
Table 4:  Loan  Disbursements: Cumulative  Estimate and  Actual ................... 15
Table 5: Key  Indicators for Project Implemenitation ....................................... 16
Table 6: Key  Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 16
Table 7: Studies includcd  in Project ........................................................                        17
Table  8a: Project Costs ........................................................                                    18
Table  8b: Project Costs ........................................................                                    19
Table 9: Economic Costs an(d  Benefits ........................................................    20
Table  10: Status of Lcgal Covenantts ........................................................                        21
Table  11: Compliance witli Operational Manual Statemlents .......................... 22
Table  12:  Bank  Rcsources:  Stalff Iniputs ......................................................... 22
Table  13:  Batik  Resources:  Missionls ........................................................                       23
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBtI'ION l1O THE ICR ........................... 25
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MIEMOIRE .................................................... 35
Map IBRD No. 30222
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIJI
(LOAN 3188-FIJ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Housing Project in
Fiji, for which Loan 3188-FIJ in the amount of U$16.2 million was approved on April 17,
1990 and made effective on February 15, 1991. The Loan was closed on September 30,
1998, compared with the original closing date of December 31, 1996. The final
disbursement took place on January 31, 1999, at which time a balance of
US$3,299,210.91 was canceled. Cofinancing in the amount of $9.6 million was provided
by the Asian Development Bank, $1.1 million by the Government of Japan and $0.3
million by the United Nations Development Programme.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Heinrich Unger, Pr. Municipal Engineer in the
Environment and Social Development Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region,
along with a team consisting of Ms. JoAnne Nickerson, EASUR, and Messrs. Eric
Peterson and Henry Boldrick, ECSIN. It was reviewed by Mr. Keshav Varma, Sector
Manager, Urban Development Unit, and Mr. Klaus Rollanid, Country Director, Papua
New Guinea and Pacific Islands Country Managemenit Unit. The Borrower provided
comments on the ICR mission's aide memnoire. They are included as an annex to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was bCgIln (lu ing tilhe Batk's ICR ImiissiOI which visited
Fiji in January 1999. The ICR is basced oni miatcrials in the project lile. The Borrower
contributed to preparation o the lICR by recording its views to tile ICR mission and
supplying some missing statistical inilornliatioli, rtilected in thc ICR ImlissiOn's aide-
memoire. The Borrower also advised( the 3aik that thlicy had(l no fIrtilcr comments on the
draft ICR.
The Asian Development Bank prepared its oWnI I'roject Completion Report on the
Low-Income Housing Developmenlt P)roject (l.oan No. 1)05-11.1) dlated December 1997
(PCR: FIJ 22181).



- lv -
FIJI
HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 3188-FIJ)
EVALlUATION SlJMMARY
Introduction
1.    At the time of appraisal in November 1988, 40% of Fiji's total population lived in
the country's 15 cities and towns. According to a census taken in 1986, there were nearly
50,000 urban households, of which some 52% involved extended families. A substantial
number of these involved newly formed households living with relatives while searching
for or accumulating savings for housing. This, as well as a growing squatter problem,
indicated a large unmet demand for housing, particularly affordable housing for middle
and lower-income households.
2.    Following an economic downturn in 1987, the Government of Fiji (GOF), was
looking to increase construction sector activity to help stimulate the domestic economy
and generate employment. At the same time, recognizing the housing shortage, GOF
adopted the development of policies and standards for housing and urban development as
a key objective in its Ninth Development Plan (1986-90), as well as increased production
of housing for all income groups. GOF's long-term objective was a housing finance and
development system which could ensure access to affordable housing by all income
groups. The emerging strategy was to rationalize public sector housing activities to
increase efficiency and reduce their burden on the government budget. As a first step
GOF intended to restructure and revitalize the activities of its main executing agency in
the sector, the Housing Authority (HA). In pursuit of its strategy, GOF, in 1987,
requested Bank assistance in formulating a new policy framework, addressing
institutional weaknesses and increasing the supply of housing for lower-income groups.
The project's objectives support this strategy.
Project Objectives
3.    Tlec obNectives of the project were: (a) improved housing and urbanization
policies for the sector as a whole, and plot and housing development standards
appropriate to the needs and means of the lower income groups; (b) strengthened sector
institutions; and (c) increased provision of affordable housing to lower incomc groups.
4.    Comzponentts included: (a) policy development to improve the urban policy
framework and operationalization of urban policies; (b) institutional strengthening to (i)
improve urban planning and standards development capability of the Town and Country
Planning Department (TCPD); (ii) improve the land use planning capability of the Native
Land Trust Board (NLTB); (iii) improve operations management of the HA; (iv) improve
operations of the Public Rental Board (PRB) which was set up during preparation to



- v -
relieve HA of its loss-making operations for providing rental housing; and (c) land
development and housing for land development and house construction finance on new
and existing plots to be implemented by HA; and rental rehabilitation to be implernented
by PRB (see paras 5-8 for a more detailed description).
5.    Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives were clear and realistic. The project was
not particularly demanding for the various government agencies involved. Although this
was the first urban project in Fiji, its objectives and scope are not considered overly
ambitious. The project rightly focused on rectifying institutional, technical and financial
problems and formulating a sound policy framework for future development (para 10).
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Achievement of the project's objectives is partial. The policy development
objectives were met, albeit later than expected. The project developed a policy
framework that was formally adopted by Cabinet in 1996 and is now being implemented.
The institutional strengthening objectives were partially met with the most success
coming under the project's main implementing agency, the Housing Authority (HA).
However, the financial position of HA throughout implementation and at project close is
weak. Operating results in the last three years were encouraging, but without a capital
injection, it will take several more profitable years for it to rebuild its equity back to a
positive level. The physical objectives were substantially met in terms of plot
development, and the plots were generally built to the appropriate standards. Housing
loans did not fully meet expectations in terms of the number of loans or in their targeting.
In fact, the correct targeting of the house construction mortgage loans cannot be verified
because updated data on the incomes of households benefiting from the project were not
made available by GOF despite an earlier commitmenlt to do so. The recalculated, actual
IRR at completion ranges between 7.70o and 13.6% compared to the originial estimated
IRR between 11.8% and 13.9% for comparable scenarios (see paras I 1-20). The
project's sustainability is rated uncertain. Implementationi of the policy framework and
the much improved performnance of the Housinig Authiority are very cencoturaging, however
the weak financial position of HA and early pronounlcemeicnts of tilC new govciriment
formed in May 1999 raise some concerns whetlhcr thc path of reformli in the housing
sector will continue to be pursued with consistency (paras 25-27).
7.    Implemnenitationi Schedule anid Costs. The pro'jct WaS approved on April 1 7, 1990
and became effective 10 months later on February 15, 1' 91. It was scheduled to close on
December 31, 1996, but was actually closed on Septemiiber 30, 1998, almost two years
later. The SAR estimated project costs at US$41.2 millioni, compared to the estimate at
closing of US$47.3 million. US$3.3 million, or 20%V/ of the total Loail amounit, was
cancelled at closing. The reasons for this arc discussed in the lollowing paragraphs on
major factors affecting project outcome, all of which wcre subject to cither government or
implementing agency control.



- vi -
8.    Major factors under government's control. First, MOF decided to employ a
different fornula for onlending ADB funds to HA. This made the ADB Loan more
attractive and resulted in a slower drawdown of the Bank Loan. Second, MOF failed to
allow loan proceeds for technical assistance to be passed on to HA, PRB and NLTB on a
grant basis as agreed in negotiations. This greatly diminished the impact of the
institutional strengthening component, and the Loan proceeds for these activities were not
disbursed (para 22).
9.    Majorfactors under implenenting agencY conltr'ol included HA's protracted
management crisis, which led to the appointment of a governmental Committee of
Inquiry. This then led to a very positive change in HA's management in 1996, and the
appointment of a new Board. Although the crisis diverted HA's energies and attention
away from its core business for some time, the change in management contributed
considerably to HA's improved performnance in the latter years of project implementation.
The time lost in production during the management crisis, and the period of redirecting
HA's efforts, including the eventual outsourcing of design, contributed to the substantial
Loan amount cancellation at closing (para 23).
10.   Cofiniancing by 4DB. ADB provided parallel cofinancing which was fully
integrated with Bank financing, i.e. both banks co-financed portions of all key
components. Except for the early divergence on the onlending formula, cooperation and
coordination between the banks was very good, with regular good communication,
exchange of information and documents (aide memoires, terms of reference, key
correspondence) and at least one joint supervision mission. ADB's grant-funded
Technical Assistance (TA) in the later years of implemenitation - the scope of which was
discussed with the Bank -- assisted HA to redirect its approach to plot development and
pricing in favor of lower income groups.
11.   ADB's project completion report (PCR), based on a review mission in July 1997,
considers the project successful as far as the institutionIal strcnigtlhenilng of HA is
concerned, but is of the view that the policy devclopmicnlt objcCtives were being achieved
very late, and that plot provision and mortgagc Icnding WerI not succcssful mainly
because of their failure to better serve the targct low-incomiie groups. Overall, the project
was rated partially successful by the ADB PC'R ImlissiOI. ADB lhas proposed to carry out
a post-evaluation of the project in July 1999 (parn 24).
12.   Performances of the Banck and Borrovcr. Tlhc pcrfor-iiianice of the Bank in
identification, preparation, appraisal is rated satisi.bctory. In view of the fact that this was
the Bank's first operation in the urban sector in FIji, the Banlk wisely limited the project's
objectives and scope. Key policy stcps were required up front to cnsure commitment.
The performance of the Bank in supervision is also ratcd satisfactory, with a consistent
team throughout the life of the project offerinig contiluity of policy advice (see paras 28-
31 for details.) The performnance of the Borrowcr in preparation is rated satisfactory as
GOF fulfilled politically difficult conditions set by the Bank (para 32). In



- vii -
implementation the Borrower is also rated satisfactory, although compliance with legal
covenants is rated deficient. An agency-by-agency evaluation is found in paras 33-40.
13.   Overall the project's outcome is rated marginally satisfactory. The policy
development component was largely successful. The institutional strengthening was
partially successful, and the physical targets we-e achieved (para 41). However, as
discussed in para 6 above, sustainability is uncertain.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   Fut2ure Operations. The HA has a Corporate Plan for 1999 to 2003 which covers
its operations in their entirety. Its stated mission is "to provide on) aifinanaciall! viable
basis, timely anld cost effective loan finanice principally for mziddle anitd lown incomiie
famzilies in Fiji." Although the emphasis appears to be on lending, this mission statement
also implies the development of appropriate affordable housing plots by HA in the
absence of otler producers (paras 42-43).
15.   The following key lessons result from the implementation of the project (para 44):
(a)    Direct public sector investment in land development and housing finance
is problematic - particularly with respect to improving financial
performance - in spite of mitigating measures such as TA for systems
development and institutional strengthening;
(b)    Formnulation, adoption and operationalization of new policies takes much
longer than usually assumed at appraisal. Political will and determination
eventually lead to success as demonstrated by the good progress on the
policy front during the later years of project implementation;
(c)    Institutional strengthening programiis also need more time, and sustained
improvements in thc pcrformance of instittutionls take considerably longer
than the average project implcncintation pcriod. Therefore, institutional
development goals sct by thle 13nik al-c usLlly too ambitious;
(d)    For the provision and iiniMancing ot l'A (for inistitutionial strengthening)
bilateral assistancc is preferable because it is ustuailly provided on a grant
basis and can be passed on as gIraIInts by a goverInmileint unwilling to borrow
for TA;
(e)    Strong commitment by the Borrower to the project's objectives can bring
about a reversal in poor implciiiemetationi trends when it was brought to its
attention that the projcct's target group was being missed. This realization
by Ministry of Local Govcnmient, Housing and Environment (MLGHE)
and .he HA Board led to the productioni of appropriate and affordable
plots, implemented by outsourcing design;



- viii -
(f)    Good coordination and communications among cofinanciers can lend
credence to policy advice, resulting in improved implementation and
greater overall impact.



FIJI
HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 3188-FIJ)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Introduction. At the time of appraisal in November 1988, 40% of Fiji's total
population lived in the country's 15 cities and towns. According to a census taken in
1986, there were nearly 50,000 urban households, of which some 52% involved extended
families. A substantial number of these involved newly formed households who were
living with relatives while searching for or accumulating savings for housing. This, as
well as a growing squatter problem, indicated a large unmet demand for housing,
particularly affordable housing for middle and lower-income households.
2.    Four key sector issues were identified as part of project identification. First, a
lack of a coherent housing and urbanization policy framework resulted in unclear and
overlapping responsibilities among the sector agencies, and prevented the development of
effective responses to urban growth and housing demand. Second, land development and
housing standards had increased in the years before appraisal. The costs associated with
these standards had risen faster than incomes, leaving lower income groups increasingly
unable to afford fonnal sector housing. Third, freehold and Crown land available for
urban development was nearly exhausted, so future urban development would have to be
accommodated on1 native Fijian lands managed by the Native Lands Trust Board
(NLTB)'. Fourth, the sector's key agency, the Housing Authority (HA), was suffering
from weaknesses including an unsound legal basis, poor operating policies, staffing gaps
and organizational weaknesses, and increasing operating losses, much of which was
attributable to loss-makinig rental housing operations.
3.    Governmient Strategy. Following an economic downturn in 1987, and in
recognition of these issues, GOF incorporated the need to develop policies and standards
for housing and urban development as a key objective in its Ninth Development Plan
(1986-90). Increased production of housing for all income groups also figured in the
Plan. GOF's long-term objective was a housing finance and development system which
could ensure access to affordable housing by all income groups. The emerging strategy
was to rationalize public sector housing activities to increase efficiency and reduce the
burden on the budget, and as a first step, to restructure the activities of HA. In pursuit of
its strategy, GOF requested Bank assistance in formnulating a new policy framework,
At appraisal, freehold land (owned by individuals, organizations or business) accounted for 10% of land; Crown
land, owned by GOF accounted for 7 % of land, and native lands (held by ethnic Fijian families or clans),
accounted for 83 % of land in Fiji.



- 2 -
addressing institutional weaknesses and increasing the supply of housing for lower-
income groups. GOF also approached the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 1987 for
assistance. The project's objectives supported GOF's strategy.
4.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the project were: (a) improved housing and
urbanization policies for the sector as a whole, and plot and housing development
standards appropriate to the needs and means of the lower income groups; (b)
strengthened sector institutions; and (c) increased provision of affordable housing to
lower income groups.
5.    Components. The project would accomplish these objectives through three major
components: (a) policy development (USS700,000); (b) institutional strengthening
(US$3.7 million); and (c) land development and housing (US$31.5 million). A brief
summary of each component follows.
6.    Policy Development. This component was divided into two sub-components: (a)
improvement of the urban policy framework for the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development (MHUD)2 through technical assistance (TA), equipment, training and
studies; and (b) operationalization of urban policies for MHUD through TA and studies to
develop operational approaches for the housing and urbanization policy framework.
7.    Instituitional Strengthening. This component had four sub-components: (a)
improvement of the urban planning and standards development capability for the Town
and Country Planning Department (TCPD) to undertake a study of urban growth and
establish a database, and to review and revise planning and land development standards;
(b) improvement of the land use planning capability of the Native Lands Trust Boarcl
(NLTB) to help establish a land use unit to plan the delivery of native land for urban
development especially housing; (c) improvement in operations management and
financial management for HA to help improve its operations and finance and carry out the
project; and (d) improvement in operations for Public Rental Board (PRB) which was set
up during project preparation to relieve HA of its loss-making responsibilities for
providing rental housing. Improvements to PRB were to be made by providing it with a
rental management/restructuring expert to initiate the PRB system of accounts and ani
audit of the rental program handover arrangements from HA to PRB; medium to long
term plans for PRB were the divestiture of up to 60% of rental flats to tenants.
8.    Land Development and Housing. This component also had four sub-components:
(a) the land development component was to finance some 3,320 new plots as well as
water, sewers, electric and roads; (b) housing construction finance for the above new
plots; (c) housing construction finance for existing plots; and (d) rental rehabilitation to
repair and/or upgrade an estimated 760 existing rental units for easier sale under the
2 MHUD later became the Ministry of Local Govemment, Housing and Environment (MLGHE) with continuity
oversight responsibilities for HA.



- 3 -
proposed divestiture program. HA was responsible for implementing sub-components
(a), (b) and (c), while PRB was responsible for implementing (d).
9.    Cofinancing. ADB, through Loan No. 1005-FIJ in the amount of US$ 9.6
million, equivalent provided parallel cofinancing for land development, house
construction loans and TA. There was good understanding, coordination and cooperation
between the World Bank and the ADB in these endeavors.
10.   Evaluation of Objectives. Given the small volume of lending in Fiji, the project
was important to the Bank's strategy in that it supported GOF's economic recovery
program by providing infrastructure investments and augmenting housing provision for
lower income households. The objectives were correctly limited to resolving the key
sectoral issues, and were clear and realistic. Although this was the first urban project in
Fiji, its objectives and scope were conservatively dimensioned to fit the institutional
capacities of the agencies involved. The project rightly focused on rectifying
institutional, technical and financial problems and formulating a sound policy framework
for future development.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   Overall achievement of the project's objectives is considered partial. Substantial
achievements were made in the policy area and in physical implementation, but
achievement of the institutional objectives is partial and achievement of the HA's
financial objectives is considered negligible.
12.   Policy Development. Achievement of the project's policy objectives is
considered substantial. Regarding the policyformulation objective, the inputs provided
by the project (TA, studies, equipment and training), supplemented by dialogue with
Bank supervision missions, were successfully used by MLGHE to review existing
housing and urban policies and land development and housing standards, and to draft new
sector policies and new, more appropriate standards. The policy framework was
approved by Cabinet as the National Urbanization and Housing Policy in 1996. The
early, pre-Board PHRD-financed project studies and TA helped to create a
comprehensive sector policy framework, provided much useful data on housing demand
and supply, and served as the basis for securing external financing for the sector. New
planning and development standards permitting land development affordable to lower
income households were proposed. While these standards have been largely applied in
the project, they have been controversial and were resisted initially by town councils.
However, GOF has persisted in promoting the revised standards, and resistance is
diminishing. TCPD is now working with the town councils on adopting the revised
standards.
13.   Operationalization of Policies and Standards. While the revised planning and
development standards have become operational and are being generally adopted, project-



- 4 -
financed studies on increasing the role of the private sector in land and housing
development and mortgage finance have had little impact.
14.   Institutional Strengthening. Achievement of the project's institutional objectives
is partial. A summary of achievements by sub-component follows.
(a) Improvement of urbani planninlg and stanidards development capabilitv in TCPD.
Project inputs (technical assistance and training) were not used and this sub-
component was not pursued; some of these inputs were provided by GOF from its
own sources;
(b) Improvemiient of lanid uise planninig capabilitv in NLTB. This sub-component was
unsuccessful. The activity (involving three years of TA, training and equipment) was
successfully initiated but was terminated by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) at mid-
point due to a change in policy concerning the use of loan funds for TA;
(c) Improvement in maniagemenit of operationis anidfinatice in HA. This successfully
improved corporate planning, accounting, data processing and management
information systems (MIS) and procurement. The ADB Loan made important
contributions to the data processing and MIS improvements. The Japanese PHRD
Grant provided expertise in the areas of corporate planning, accounting policy and
systems and project management. Improvements in physical planning and project
management were made but did not have a lasting impact. (On the positive side,
these functions were outsourced to consultants starting in 1998). More importantly,
the improvements made did not have the expected impact on HA's finances which
deteriorated badly during the project and only began to recover with the appointment
of new management in 1996. While MOF did not agree to additional loan-funded TA
for HA, the ADB provided more grant TA during 1995/96 in the areas of corporate
planning, lending operations and site planning. This assistance is considered to have
been useful and successful since it helped the new HA management prepare a new
corporate plan. The site planner assisted greatly in formulating a new, more
appropriate approach to land development and plot pricing; and
(d) Improvement in operationis of PRB. Project inputs (technical assistance and
equipment) had little impact. Few of the expected changes in the public rental
housing program have occurred.
15.   Provision of Affordable Housing to Lower Income Groups. These objectives
were substantially met from a physical perspective as 3,031 plots, against the SAR target
of 3,320 plots, were developed with IBRD and ADB financing and generally employing
the new affordability standards developed under the policy component. If plots
developed with HA funding only are counted, more than 4,000 plots were developed
during the project period. Actual plot costs ranged from F$3,600 to F$14,600 and
averaged F$7,727. These figures are higher than the expected plot costs, but the plots;
were still affordable down to the 30' percentile of the urban income distribution. The



-5 -
sale of plots was expected to reflect the income distribution, although households as high
as the 80th percentile were eligible according to HA policy. The income distribution of
actual buyers shows that 52% of the plots were bought by lower income households
(those below the 50th percentile). An internal rate of return (IRR) recalculation was
conducted upon project completion for a sample of comparable plot and housing products
("scenarios") in two development areas for which reliable cost data were available.
Depending on housing type, the recalculated IRR ranged from 7.7% to 13.6%. At
appraisal the IRRs ranged between 11.8% to 13.9%. The details of the IRR calculation
are in Table 9. The smallest plots with "incremental housing solutions" start with a
temporary shelter and build a full house later, showed the highest IRR.
16.   House Conistruvctioni Finiance (on new and existing plots). House construction
loans financed under the project did not meet expectations, either in terns of the number
of loans or in reaching the target group. Mortgage loans for house construction totaled
1,901 of which 1,194 were Bank-financed and 707 ADB-financed. The average loan
amount was FS 17,634, well in excess of the expected average (F$4,060 for new plots and
F$10,875 for existing plots), but only 32% of the loans were within the expected
maximum loan amount (F$10,480 for new plots, and FS 12,000 for existing plots);
however, during 1997 (the last year for which complete records were available) 54% of
the mortgage loans were within the F$12,000 limit- showing that the new management
of HA was successful in better targeting their products to the lower income groups. The
estimated (extrapolated) income distribution of borrowers shows that still only 60% of
the loans financed under the project reached lower income households.
17.   Renital Houising Rehabilitation. Financing of rental housing rehabilitation
($200,000 allocated) provided under the project was not used because MOF was of the
view that they were already providing substantial GOF grant funds to PRB, and no
furtlher funds from loan proceeds were therefore justified.
18. Environment. The project, which was appraised in 1988, was not subject to the
Bank's guidelinies (OD 4.01) on environmental assessment. The project's environmental
impacts were, however, assessed at appraisal to be positive since the living conditions,
environment and physical infrastructure of several thousand families would be improved.
The infrastructure provided included central sewage collection which is mandatory in
urban areas in Fiji. The land development component had greater environmental impacts
than anticipated since most of the sites had hilly topography, and major earthworks were
carried out to develop small building plots. However, adequate drainage systems were
installed which, together with revegetation through plantings by residents, have prevented
erosion. The more mature estates actually present an attractive planted environment.
Slopes are stable and drains are mostly working. There are some concerns, however,
whether the drains are being maintained (residents may have to take the initiative in this
area) and whether garbage is being collected regularly in all estates by the respective
local councils.



- 6 -
19.   Bank missions had urged HA to do better site planning and use more
environmentally friendly approaches to land development to avoid major earthworks.
MLGHE also strongly advocate a more environmentally sensitive approach to land
development. The Sustainable Development Bill, adopted in February 1999, will require
all agencies, including HA, to develop "environmental codes of practice" which shciuld
lead to a better approach to land development.
20.   Resettlement. With regard to resettlement, project appraisal had identified only a
few families living (and some squatting) on sites which would be affected by the project.
HA had adopted a resettlement policy with adequate provisions for accommodating
sitting residents on the newly developed sites. HA's resettlement office implemented this
policy consistently and there were no difficulties with resettlement.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   Factors niot generally subject to government conitrol. All factors of significance
were generally subject to government or implementing agency control.
22.   Factors generally subject to governnment comtrol. Two factors may be cited.
First, MOF decided to employ a different formnula for onlending ADB funds to HA. The
resulting lower interest rate made the ADB Loan more attractive and resulted in a slower
drawdown of the Bank loan. Second, MOF failed to allow Loan proceeds for technical
assistance to be passed on to HA, NLTB or PRB on a grant basis as agreed in
negotiations, because MOF did not want to borrow for TA which it usually can obtain on
a grant basis from ADB, UNDP or bilateral funding sources. This greatly diminished the
impact of the institutional strengthening component, and the Loan proceeds for these
activities were not disbursed.
23.   Factors sutject to impleinenting agency control. In 1995, HA went through a
protracted management crisis, with the Chief Executive and HA's Board differing on
HA's shift in focus from serving higher income groups toward lower income groups. The
crisis led to the appointment of a governmental Committee of Inquiry, then to a very
positive change in HA's management in 1996, and eventually to the appointment of a
new Board. Although the crisis diverted HA's energies and attention away from its core
business for some time, the change in management contributed considerably to HA's
improved performance in the latter years of project implementation. The strong
commitment of GOF and HA's 'Board to providing affordable housing to lower incorne
groups was the driving force behind these changes. The time lost in production during
the management crisis and the period of redirecting HA's efforts, and the eventual
outsourcing of design contributed to the substantial cancellation at closing.
24.   ADB as parallel cofinancier was a good partner in promoting the goals and
objectives of the project. Due to the lower onlending rate, their loan was drawn down
faster and closed earlier. ADB also provided grant funded TA which brought about
positive changes in ADB management and operations following the 1996 crisis. AD]3's



own evaluation in their December 1997 project completion report, concluded that while
"..the project has been mostly successful in accepting and implementing the institutional
strengthening components..", it was unsuccessful in the land development and subloans
components. ADB has prepared to carry out post-evaluation of the project in July 1999.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   Project sustainability is rated uncertain. On the positive side, an urban policy
framework was drawn up and approved by Cabinet as the National Urbanization and
Housing Policy. GOF is now working with local counsels to adopt the revised land
development standards. The HA has made good progress in the land development and
financial areas, and is now producing affordable plots (and no more pre-built expensive
houses). The organization has been restructured, the number of staff have been reduced,
and administrative costs were down to 25% of total revenue for 1997. HA's corporate
plan (see paras 42-43 below) is comprehensive, credible and achievable. It forms a good
basis to continue operations following the closures of the ADB and Bank loans3.
26.   Under the leadership of the present Board and management, HA is considered to
be able to continue to improve its performance and deliver affordable housing to lower
and middle income families. One important step that HA took in 1998 was to outsource
the provision of design, engineering and supervision for six sites yielding some 600 plots.
Plot development costs and size were included in the design contracts in order to ensure
affordability to low and middle income households. At Loan closing the designs were
complete and tendering for construction had started. The characteristics and prices of
these sites will follow project principles more closely than earlier plots. This new
management approach and attention to making plots affordable is a good indicator of
IHlA's commitment to better serve its target group.
27.   A number of risks to sustainability are also in evidence however. First, despite
HA's improved performance, its financial position remains weak (see para 35 below on
HIA's performance). Without a capital injection from GOF, it will take several years for
HA to rebuild its equity to a positive level. Second, the revised standards were formally
approved by Cabinet, but are now starting to be implemented consistently by all local
councils with assistance from TCPD. In May 1999, following elections, a new
government was formed, and it is unclear at this time if the new government will
continue to pursue the policies and apply the standards established under the project. On
a positive note, there does not appear to be any plans to change the HA's Board at this
time.
3 However, there is an emphasis on mortgage lending because commercial and public sector banks are still reluctant to
lend to lower income households, i.e., few loans under FS12,000 are made except by HA.



- 8 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.   Identification, Preparation, Appraisal. Bank performaDce during identification,
preparation and appraisal is considered satisfactory. The Bank correctly assessed the
major sectoral issues (para 2) and designed the project's objectives to respond to them.
The preparatory stages were carried out against the backdrop of a somewhat uncertain
political situation in 1987. The Bank team made good efforts to mitigate against the
likely risks of investing in public housing. It established a number of conditions of
appraisal, most importantly the Cabinet's approval of the HA's Revitalization Plan and
the establishment of a separate government entity (i.e. PRB) for the rental housing
program and transfer of the program's assets and liabilities from HA to the PRB. These
conditions tested the GOF's cornmitment to the project before proceeding with appraisal.
and set the housing program on the right track. The appraisal team, did, however,
overestimate the potential for quick progress in policy operationaliZation and institutional
improvements.
29.   Supervision., Bank performance during supervision is also rated satisfactory. The
Bank ensured continuity of staff involved in the project. although some change and
turnover of staff may have brought in new perspectives and approaches. A successful
project launch workshop was held, and Bank supervision missions were regular and well
staffed in the early and later periods of implementation, but lacked critical financial
expertise in between. The missions engaged in active dialogue with MLTVGHE, HA and
PRB, and their suggestions and advice on operational issues was vwell taken by the
implementing agencies. However, statements of expenditures for hiouse construction
loans were not regularly reviewed by the missions, and the extent of the poor targeting of
this sub-component was not fully exposed. The Bank suspended disbursements based on
Statements of Expenditure from February 18, 1997 to July 15, 1 998 in response to the
Borrower's failure to provide the covenanted audits.
30.   Communication, coordinationi and cooperation between the various cofinanciers,
especially the ADB. were always good and effective, with generally consistent advice and
approaches, except for the problem with the on-lending formula noted in para 22 above.
There was one joint mission by ,DB and the Bank and the project TA was
complementary, with both parties consulting each other on the proposed terms of
reference.
31.   Although not specifically part of the Housing Project, the Bank undertook a
review of Fiji's financial sector in the early 1997 following the National Bank of Fiji
crisis. With the advent of the East Asia financial crisis, it was only in July 1998 that the
Bank completed the review and forwarded it to GOF. The review suggested the transfer
of HA's mortgage portfolio to (a) more suitable public lending institution(s). A study to
review the impact of such a transfer on HA was made a condition for extending the Loan
closing date, scheduled for September 30, 1998. This condition was imposed too late to
build up GOF commitment to the reform. GOF resisted the condition, and ultimately
decided to let the Loan close.



-9 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   Identification, Preparation, Appraisal. The Borrower's performance is rated
satisfactory in the preparatory phases. GOF's Ninth Development Strategy correctly
identified the areas needing the most improvement, i.e., elaboration of a strong policy
framework, adoption of more appropriate standards for low-income housing, institutional
strengthening especially for the HA. During preparation the conditions of appraisal that
the Bank imposed were politically very difficult, yet the Borrower successfully met them
between preappraisal in August 1988 and appraisal in November of the same year. The
Borrower moved quickly after appraisal to sign the Japanese Grant Agreement (dated
December 7, 1988) so that the TA it was providing could be hired and begin working
without delay. In implementation, the Borrower's performance is also rated satisfactory.
An agency-by-agency assessments follows.
33.   The Housing Authorit3y's performance in general and land development can be
rated as satisfactory since it submitted timely, though brief summary-type, quarterly
progress reports of outputs. The design and construction of serviced plots went well,
although there were some delays and cost overruns, some caused by poor weather and site
conditions. However, HA's project management was good (initially assisted by
expatriate experts) and procurement followed Bank guidelines closely. In fact, HA
continues to use the Bank procurement documents and procedures (including the
prequalification of contractors) because of their transparency and efficiency.
Construction quality was good on all sites, and there has been very little deterioration of
infrastructure and filled areas.
34.   Pushed by the strong commitment and desire of GOF and the HA's Board, the
new management of HA, supported very actively by its new Board, has adopted a new,
more appropriate, approach to affordable land development and plot pricing, and has also
started to outsource the design and supervision of land development which has been
successful so far.
35.   HA's financial performance has been poor throughout the project period, and its
current financial condition is weak. Operating results in the last two years are
encouraging but without a large capital injection, it will take several years for HA to
generate a positive net worth. There were two Project Agreement covenants relating to
HA financial performance: (a) return on equity of at least 5% from 1990 and (b) ratio of
operating expenses to total assets of 3% from 1995. HA satisfied the return on equity
covenant only in 1992-95. However, the declared return in those years is suspect in light
of the heavy write-offs taken in 1995-96 which point to a failure to write down inflated
stock values or to make proper doubtful debt provisions in earlier years which would
have resulted in operating losses and negative returns on equity. As long as net worth
remains negative, even operating surpluses cannot generate a rate of return and this ratio
is not meaningful.



- 10-
36.   HA also failed to satisfy the operating expenses/total assets ratio throughout most
of the project with actual performance averaging 4.1%. Significant progress has been
made in 1998, and HA is now close to achieving the target. With respect to other
financial performance indicators, HA has generally met current ratio targets but has failed
to reach targets for debt/equity, interest service, operating surplus/revenues and mortgage
loan collection ratios.
37.  Ministry of Finance. MOF's performance is rated deficient, reflecting problems
and lack of commitment in five areas:
(a)    Guidance/Coordination/Dialoguie. MOF provided little guidance and did
not make any effort to coordinate the project. It was the responsibility of
MLGHE to coordinate the various agencies' actions. There may have
been a misunderstanding as to MOF's role and functions in project
implementation. Nevertheless, especially during the later parts of the
implementation period, MOF communicated little with the Bank, and
Bank missions were unable to meet senior officials of the Ministry to
engage in a meaningful dialogue;
(b)   Disbursements/Accounting/Auditing. Delays were experienced in
processing withdrawal applications, possibly because the submitting
agency did not prepare the application properly. MOF also had difficulties
in operating the Special Account, ostensibly because HA submitted only a
few applications within the limit for payment from the Special Account (it
was ultimately closed by the Bank due to lack of activity). In both cases,
more guidance from MOF may have been useful. The consolidated
audited project accounts report for the period 1990/95 were submitted to
the Bank in December 1996 but did not meet Bank requirements as set out
in the Loan Agreement. The accounts had to be re-done during 1997, and
were only ready and audited in early 1998. MOF also did not make any
efforts to compile quarterly consolidated project reports;
(c)   Funding Flow. MOF failed to allow Loan proceeds for TA to be passed
on to the HA, NLTB and PRB on a grant basis for the institutional
strengthening components;
(d)   Onlending Formula. MOF decided to employ a different formula for
onlending ABD finds to HA without consulting the Bank. This resulted
in a slower drawndown of the Bank Loan; and
(e)   Transfer of HA 's Lending Portfolio. In reaction to the Bank's 1997
financial sector review mission and its recommendations, MOF did show
some initiative when, in early 1997, it proposed considering the transfer of
the lending portfolio from HA to other financial institutions, but did not
follow up. The situation remained unresolved at project closing (para 31).



- 11 -
38. Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Environment 's performance is rated
satisfactory. It took on leadership and provided project coordination; they also
maintained an active and responsive policy dialogue and communications with the Bank.
The Ministry was effective in managing the numerous policy studies and also was
successful in formulating and operationalizing the new policies and standards. MLGHE
also provided mostly effective oversight of the project implementing agencies, especially
of the HA. Following the management crisis late in 1995/96, the Permanent Secretary of
MLGHE took over as acting chief executive of HA and started to incorporate the
recommendations of GOF's Committee of Inquiry into the operations of HA.
39.   Public Rental Board. The PRB did not rehabilitate the number of rental housing
units estimated in the SAR, but this is due to the fact that the MoF did not reimburse
PRB's expenditures on these activities as agreed at negotiations. Nevertheless, the PRB
has shown considerable improvement in its performance. It has reduced its operating
costs from F$2.24 million in 1991 to F$1.58 million in 1997; its rental income has
increased from F$650,336 in 1991 to F$1.3 million in 1997. These improvements have
come about by the PRB increasingly charging and collecting economic rent. It has also
improved its collection performance considerably.
40.   Compliance with Legal Covenants. The Borrower's compliance with legal
covenants is rated deficient. MOF failed to make Loan proceeds available to HA, PRB
and NLTB for TA for institutional strengthening. Audit reports for project accounts were
very late. The HA did not comply with financial covenants. The Borrower did not
prepare its own completion report. Detailed comments are provided in Part II, Table 10.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   Overall, the project is rated marginally satisfactory. The policy development
component was successful, with the adoption by Cabinet of the National Housing and
Urbanization Policy in 1996. The institutional strengthening component was partially
successful, with an important impact on HA, the main sector agency. The physical
targets were achieved if not exceeded, although because of a lack of data, especially up-
to-date household income data, it is unclear to what extent the house construction loans to
the project's target groups were adequately utilized.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
42.   Neither the Loan Agreement nor the Project Agreement stipulated the need for
HA for produce an operational plan. However, HA has recently issued its "Corporate
Plan for 1999 to 2003" which covers its operations in their entirety. It was prepared in
anticipation of its eventual (after 2000) corporatization and commercialization. The plan
includes a vision, a mission statement, its corporate philosophy, a statement of objectives,
a corporate strategy, specific strategic action plans for all areas of HA's operations, a
budget, and targets for land development, sales and lending for 1999 and beyond.



- 12 -
43.   HA's vision is summarized as "... providing competitive and quality
services. . towards better housing and living standards for its people." HA's mission
statement clearly spells out HA's continued and re-emphasized intention to serve lowV and
middle income families:
The mission of the HousingAuthority is to provide on afinancialA lviable basis, timnelv and cost
effective loan finance principally for middle and low- income families in Fiji.
This mission statement implies the production of affordable plots and houses, and the
corporate philosophy of HA talks about "...searching for better and more affordable ways
to serve their (middle and lower income families') housing needs." It also refers to better
customer service, performance measurements, and human resource development. Key
performance targets set out in the Corporate Plan are in the table below:
Key Performance Targets for HA
Ratio/Indicator                         Targets       Year of Achievement
Total Admin Cost/Total Revenue            20%         2000 (25% in 1999)
Arrears/Total Mortgage Portfolio          4%          1999 (3% in 2000)
Collection efficiency                    87.5%        2000
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44. This project yields the following lessons learned:
(a)    Direct public sector investment in land development and housing finance
is problematic - particularly with respect to financial performance - in
spite of mitigating measures such as TA introduced into project design and
conditionality. This project insisted on the splitting off from HA of the
higlhly subsidized rental operations and the accumulated debt, required the
recapitalization of HA, and extracted a good policy statement from
government, but the public housing sector remains fraught with some of
the problems encountered when the project was first identified;
(b)    Formulation, adoption and operationalization of new policies takes much
longer than usually assumed by government and the Bank at appraisal.
Political will and determination on the part of government agencies
eventually lead to success as demonstrated by the good progress on the
policy front during the later years of project implementation;
(c)    Institutional strengthening programs also need more time, and sustained
improvements in the performance of institutions take considerably longer
than the average project implementation period. Therefore, institutional
development goals set by the Bank are usually too ambitious;



- 13 -
(d)    For the provision and financing of TA (for institutional strengthening)
bilateral assistance is preferable because it is usually on a grant basis to
GOF, and can be passed on, on the same terms. The benefiting agencies
also prefer such "free" TA, because the mechanisms for channeling the
grant funds are usually more flexible (the funds are advanced). This is
especially important in Fiji where it was not possible to operate a Special
Account successfully;
(e)    Strong management commitment to the project's objectives can bring
about a reversal in poor implementation trends when it is brought to their
attention that the project's target group is being missed. This realization
led HA to produce appropriate affordable plots through outsourcing; and
(f)    Good coordination and communications among cofinanciers can lend
credence to policy advice, resulting in improved implementation and
greater overall impact.



- 14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                 X
Sector policies                           X
Financial objectives                                                  X
Institutional development                               X
Physical objectives                       X
Poverty reduction                                                                      X
Gender issues                                                                          X
Other social objectives                                                                x
Environmental objectives                                X
Public sector management                                X
Private sector development                                            X
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                    Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                       X
Preparation assistance                                               X
Appraisal                                                            X
Supervision                                                          X
D. Borrower Performance                 Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                           X
Implementation                                                        X
Covenant compliance                                                                     X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly          Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
(Marginally satisfactory)                            X



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                      Purpose                             Approval       Status
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                     Date planned               Date actual
Identification                                                                      November 1986
Preappraisal                                               August 1988               August 1988
Appraisal                                                  October 1988             November 1988
Negotiations                                                April 1989              July 19-25, 1989
Board presentation                                          July 1989               April 17, 1990
Signing                                                         -                    June 22, 1990
Effectiveness                                                   -                  February 15, 1991
Project completion                                        June 30, 1996
Loan closing                                            December 31, 1996         September 30, 1998
[Iablc 4; Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
(USSS million)
FY               9)        9        92       93        94       95       96        97       98        99
Appraisal        0.2      2.1       2.6      2.6      2.6       2.9      3.1        0        0         0
I.stimnatc
Actual             0        t        .5     .46      1.95      3.98     2.59     1.08      .54      1.81
Actual as          (                 1')      18       75      137        84
of'cstimatc
Datc of final disburscniicnt: January 31, 1999



- 16 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                      Actual
Kegy implementation indicators in SAR      Start      Complete           Start     Complete
Io of plots to be developed                             3,320                        3,031
2. Average plot cost F$                                   4,830                        7,727
(in US$)                                (3,286)                     (3,942)
A Alloruabilitv, National urban income                   13-70 %                      30-80 %)
distnibution
-z. Average loan amount New plots:                         4.060          Average:    17,63*4
Existing plots:                     10,875
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations
None - See 7aras 42-4 3



- 17-
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Study           Purpose as defined at         Status                 Impact of Study
l______________        Appraisal/Redefined
1. Review of Rental To analyze, and propose   Completed in 1988
Housing Program of solutions to deficient delivery
HA                and management of rental
(financed by HA)   housing
2. Housing Needs   To assess housing needs in    Completed in 1989  The assessment concluded that a basic
Assessment         Fiji, leading up to the                        two-bedroom house is unaffordable to
(financed by       formulation of a national                      some 90% of households.
LJNDPIUNCHS)    housing policy.
3. National       To draft new housing and    Complete            National Housing and Urbanization
Urbanization/     urbanization policies                           Policy for Fiji was endorsed in 1996 by
Housing Policy                                                    Cabinet. The studies and TA helped to
Studies                                                           create a comprehensive sector policy
(financed by                                                      framework, provided much useful data
UNDP/UNCHS)                                                       on housing demand and supply, and
served as the basis for securing
substantial extemal financing for the
sector.
4. Capital Markets  To assess the capabilities, roles Completed in 1991
Study             and performance of the
(financed by ADB)  informal mechanisms and
formal institutions with respect
to mobilizing and channeling
resources for affordable
housing: examine the infomial
sector and capital market's
institutional arrangements,
functions, performance and
prospects and review the tax
and legal framework.
5. Housing        To assist GOF in identifyinig   Completed in 1991
Resource           ways and means of
Mobilization Study  augmenting available tormlial
(financed by ADB)  and infomial domestic
resources for the holLsinig
sector, particularly for
financing housing in the lower
income groups.
6. Human                                      ( ompleptCd in 1992
Settlements Sector
Review
(financed by
UNCHS)
7. Planning       To improve urbanl plannillig    Conlected in 1993  Tllese standards now form the basis for
Standards         and standards development                       the recent revision by TCPD of Fiji's
(financed by ADB) capability for T1'1'1).                        Town Planing Regulations applied by
local councils. They have been
controversial and resisted by town
councils, but GOF has persisted in
promoting them, and reluctance is



- 18 -
being gradually reduced..
Sustainability of the recommendations
is still somewhat uncertain.
8. Urbanization   To identify systems or areas   Completed in 1992
Monitoring Study   for enhancement or further
(financed by ADB)  assistance. Subjects included
urban trends: statutory
framework for urban planning,
urbanization issues; planning
processes; urban land
requirements; infrastructure:
objectives and policies:
identification of infornnation
needs; training needs for urban
planners.                                     I
9. Options for    To develop a strategy and   Completed in 1993  lReconmmended action was to
Divestiture of Fiji  action plan which GOF could                  restructure the PRB and privatize its
Public Rental      use in implementing its                        physical inventory. Most
Housing Estates    privatization of PRB housing                  recommendations have not been
(financed by IBRD) estates.                                       implemented, but in 1998 GOF took
over PRB's debt service, and PRB's
operating financial performance has
greatly improved.



- 19 -
Table 8a: Project Costs
(US$'000)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/latest estirate
Item                           Local    Foreign     Total           Local   Foreign       Total
Policy Development                   -      689.9      689.9              -    1,200.4   1,200.4
Insttutional Development             -   3,466.3    3,466.3               -    1,351.8   1,351.8
Land Development
- Land Development             7,720.1    1,845.8   10,565.9      10.571.2    6,155.7  16,726.9
- House Construction                                               17.847.9    8,579.7  26,427.6a)
- New Plots                    4,323.8    1,594.8    5.918.6             -          -         -
- Existing Plots               9,913.3   4,882.6   14,795.9              -          -         -
- Rental Restructuring           304.4     101.5      405.9              -          -         -
Base Costs                     22,261.6  13,581.0   35,842.5              -          -         -
Total Project Cost (w/ conting.)    26,104.5   15,102.4   41,206.9  28,419.1   17,286.7  45,706.7
Total Financing Required       29,343.7  21,923.3   51,267.0       29,067.3   18,268.9 47,336.2"'
(incl. IDC)
Table 8b: Project Financing
(US$million)
Appraisal estimate                ActuaL/late estimate
Source              l ocal     Foreign     Total         Local    Foreign    Total
Housing Authority                 9.4         6.8       16.2           9.7        6.2      15.9
Public Rental Board               (1               0     . 1           -          -         -
Beneficiaries                     7.3         (         7.3            8.2        -         8.2
IBRD                             7.9          8.3       16.2           6.4       5.6       12.0
ADB                              4.6          5.5       10.1           5.2       4.6        9.8
Japanese Grant                   0            1.1       1.1            0.0        1.1       1.1
UNDP                                          (.3      0(.3           (.0        0.3        0.3
Total Financing                 29.3         22.0      51.3          29.5        17.8      47.3
a) Available records did not differentiatc betwcen ncw plots and existing plots.
b) IDC was estimated.



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Scenario      Actual Plot       House
IRR   Size       type
Cl            13.6%   200m2, shk>IBR  costs and benefits.
C2            11.0%   350m2, shk>3BR
C3            10.6%   500m2, 3BR cnc  house type                Monthly rent,               350m2                   500m2
200m2
Si            12.2%                                                   East     West        East       West          East      West
S2             7.7%                      temp           $1,000       S100        $80      S100         $80         S100 $80
shack
S3             9.0%                       1 BR kit     $12,000       S215      $18)        $250       S210        S300 $250
3BR kit      $27,000       $270       $230       $350       $280          S43() $38(1
3BR con      $35,000                                                     $480 $410
SAR    3/(90 (typical scenario similar to C2 & C3 above)
Maint.       Total  Imputed Consolid        Adjust       Total          Nct    House
Year  land site wks              house        1%         costs       rent    factor       rent   Benefits       bcnefit  itprovts
1  577    8,126                     109       19,742       1,044      1.0(0     1,044      1,044      (18,698.30)
10,930
2                                         109          109 2,088      1.01()    2,109      2,109       1,999.58     Add
3                                         109          109 2.088      1.020     2,131)     2,130       2,020.46     BR + LR
4                                         1(9          109 2.088      1.040     2,172      2,172       2,(162.22
5                                         109          109 2,088      1.060     2,213      2,213       2,1(03.98
6                                         109          10)9 2,088     1.1((1    2,297     2,297       2,187.5(0
7                                         109          11)9 2,088     1 140     2,38(1     2.381)      2,271.0)2
8                                         1()9        1()9 2'(88      1.19()    2,485      2,485       2,375.42
9                                         1(9         109 2,088      1.231)    2,568      2,568       2,458.94
10                                         1(9         10)9 2,0)88    1.25(0    2610       2,610)    2,5(1().71)
I I                                        1(9         1(09 2,0)88     1.265     2,641      2.641      2,532.)2
12                                         1(M9         1(09 2,1088    1 28(0    2,673      2,673       2,563.34
13                                         1(9          1019 2,1)88    1 2911    2,694      2,694       2,584.22
14                                         1N9         10)9 2,0)88     1.295     2,71)4     2,70)4      2,594.66
15                                        1)N         10)9 2,1188     1.30)5    2,725      2,725      2,615.54
16                                         1()9        109 2,1188      1.3111    2,735      2,735      2,625.98
17                                         1)          109 201188      1.3 20    2,756      2,756      2,646.86
18                                         1()9       11) 2,()88      1.327     2,771      2,771      2,661.48
19                                         109          11)9 2,1)88    1.333     2.783      2,783      2,674.1)0
20                                         11(9         1()9 2',)88     1.33t    2,790       2,790      2,6811.27
21                                          109         109 2,0)88      1 338    2,794       2,794      2,684.44
22                                         11(1)        1('9 2,088     1 3411    2,798       2,798      2,688.62
23                                          1(19        119 2,0)88      I 342    2,80)2      2,81)2     2,692.8(0
24                                          1(9))       1 09) 2,088    1 344     2,80)(0     2,8116     2,696.97
25                                         11(1)        11(9 2,)88     1 345     2,818       2,80)8     2,699.0)6
26                                         1119         I 01() 2,088   1 .34     2',8 1)     2,811)     2,70)1.15
27                                          1(1')       10)') 2.,)88   1.347     2,813       2,813      2,703.24
28                                          1(19        119) 2,0)88    1 348     2,815     2,815       2,705.32
29                                          1(9         119) 2,088      1 .349)    2,817     2,817      2,707.41
30 Add lot residual value in year 30       I10')        11)' 2,605     I 3511    3.598       3,598      3,488.45
With rent   577                                                                                     IRR =12.00/.,



- 21 -
Table 1O: Status of Legal Covenants
Cove-                 Original   I  Revised
Agree-                         nant      Present   fulfillment   FLIIlhl11men
ment          Section         type       Status       date             t              Description of covenant           Comments
date
LOAN       3.01 (a)(i)           10      _  C                                    Due diligence
3. 01 (a)(ii)        10          C'                                   HA to carry out project in
_________                             ~~~~~~~accordance with project agreement __________
3.01 (b)     _        3     _ C                                      Onlend 5I 4.5m to HA under SLA
3.01(d)              10          C'                                  Carry out project in accordance
________  _________                         __________   with inilementation progrm
3 02            1    10    _ ___                                      Procurement eamed out in
accordancc with Schedule 4
-. 3.03               0         NC    |              -               Preparc own ICR                        Not provided
4T01                   I       CD                                   Maintaill rccor-s and accounIts;        Project accounts &
have thicimi audited; submit audits to   audits were verv
t3ank tor rev ie                       latc, but agenicy
accounts & audits
were always on
timc.
Schedule S(l)        10         (P                                  i Nl T3 to impro%c land use planninig    MOF cut ofl'l'A
_________                            ___________  through TA, TRG, equipmenit               I'unding to NlE'IB
Schedule 5(2)        12          C                                   F unish urban & planning policies
______________   ________             ___________  & standardis to Bank forT review     -    _______-
Schedule 5(3)        10          C                                   Complete TOR & consultant
selection tbr policv development
componetit for Mm'n. Housing and
i          ~~Urban Development
Schedule 5(4a)       12          C                                   Install otlsite electricity, water
supply, and sewerace networks
______ ______                                                                     rcquirced
Schedule 5(4b)       12          C                                   Operate & maintain networks
compicted under the project
Schedule 5(5)        10         C'P                                | I'R13 to cany out rental                Restructuring of'
restructuring progrant and review      PRB only partially
ann,,uallv witlh 13ank                 done & no reviews
Schedule 5(0)         )      -  NC                                    MOI: & MIIlJt) to participate in        There were joint
annual rcview of program and 5-         reviews but no 5-
year pcrirmiancc projections           year projections
IPROJ.     4.01(a)                1          (                                    Maintain records, accounts; have
A(iM                                                                             tIlCIll audited; subillit audits to tIlC
I j  PIlank Ior rcview  I
4.)2(a)         |    2          Nta |                               |  al annual rctLni on equity of at       Achieved 1992-95
________                                                                          eI least 5                             but doubtful
1 4.02(b)               2         UP I       o) l          I 1:07       Rvcicw past, c crrint atid -iiext year
|   l    l                                    |             | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pcifo-inanice withl respect to
I _______________  I ____________________   |  _______          'X                  q S dicii ment retuni  on   equity
4.02(c)         1     2         I                                      IC e I   ic  shows failurc to meet    Measures taken
aho% c icquircimcnts, take mcasures     provided
!_________                                           to _Iicct themil                        inadequate
4(03(a)               2         NU                                    liv cacti faiscal ycar attach ratio of'  Averaged 4.1%
o(tal operating cxpenses to average     only throughout
otlal assets tot ligihcr than 3%1X      project Period
4.0!(b)                                                               Pi2p' t Ic Ppae foreasts to answer wvhether    Forecasts were
2 l   I   -      1             |             ,. _above. ieyjnremic)lhiltCS  ill bc met  inadequate
t          1 4().03(c)              2         T lIi foiccaSts shoIk failure to meet                                         Measures taken
aho v  re.qLlulircits, take all        were not fully
SI hedule                              |                             nce'ssay mcasures                       effective
1 |       Schedule    ()        tIA p 7peiLni & maintain qualified                                            Generally done
i          l                                         ]                             pilicssiiials lor project               but expertise
!i iaii agnicti t, corp. planning, EDP  provided was not
& accouniting                          always fully
__ -_  _      _______-_________________                                                     adequate
Sched(le 2                                                            Ii)   Ii rFlilsIdc completed electricity,
w|atcr supply, sewerage networks to
____i  _   ] _  _   4              '             j  IIA & I'WI)
Schedule 3      !    2          N('   I        .                     FulMish program & budget for             Programs &
I                                                    f l   l   l   | lollwing year, and projections of  budgets were not
titiaticial perfrmnance for next 5      fumished regularly
ycais, and report on financial          and thus could not
I__ I______________________I pcriFormance oflast yeaT                                                                     be reviewed
Covenant Class:                                                                                  Status:
I = Accounts/audits                        8     Itidigelnnus peoplc                          C    = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/fevenuC          ')    Monitoring, review, and reporting            CD   = complied with after delay



- 22 -
generation from beneficiaries   16 = Project implementation not               CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1-9               NC  = not complied
funds                           II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency     12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement         13 = Other
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                      Comments
OP 10.02 Financial Management                   HA audits were always on time, but GOF's audit report of the
consolidated project accounts were late and initially incormplete.
In response, thz Bank suspended disbursement based on SOEs
from February 1997 to July 1998.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
FY            1987   1988   1989   199)   1991         992   1993    1994   1995    1996    1997   1998    1999   total
Preappraisal    15.9   34 2    16.6                                                                                   66.7
Appraisal                       17.2    1 7                                                                            1 8.9
Negotiations                            9 9                                                                            9.9
Sup  rsision                              8    125    11 1            x I   8   8X8    66      113     87    11.7    874
C(ompletiol                                                                                                    34      3.4
Totals       15.9   34.2   33.8   12.4   12.S   111.1    8.t    8.8    8.8    6.6    11.3    8.7    15.1   186.3



- 23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratings
Specialized staff     Imple-           Devel-
Stage of project cycle    Month/    Number of     Days    skills represented /a    mentation       opment         Type of
year       persons     in field                          status /b      objectives     problems /c
Identification           11/86         2            7                              IS/FA
Preparation             2-3/87         4            8          (AU, DO)             EN
Preparation             2-3/88         4           20        FA, IS, DC. AU
Preappraisal             8/88          3           17          FA, IS, EN
Appraisal                11/88         3                       FA, AU, IS
Supervision              11/90         1            8              FA                HS              HiS
I /Effectiveness
Supervision 2            11/91         2            8           FA, AU               JIS             IIS        lfIcctivcness
delays.
revision by
AD13 ol'
lormnla;
artcais in
IIA's loan
porttolio
Supervision 3            3/92                                    FA, IS
Supervision 4            7/93           I           8             AUl                S                S        Financial/ac-
counting/audit
________._                                                      problems
Supervision 5            3/94          3            4       AU. I:N, MS, DC          S                S        Mortgagc
ref-inanciog
not used;
audits late
Supervision 6            10/94         2            9           AU, IN               S                S        Compliance
with legal
covenants;
targeting of
low income
groups behind
needs
Supervision 7            5/95          2            5           All, IFN             S                S        Compliance
with legal
covenants;
IIA f'inancial
performance
Supervision 8            2/9(,         1            4             AU                                  U        Compliance
with legal
covenants;
T-A progress;
overdue
project
account audits
Supervision 9            5/'7          3            5         Al 1, IN, FA           S                S        Overdue
audits and
project
accounts
Supervision 10           2/98          7            t         Al, I N. IFA           S                S        Audits;
financial
situation of
HA and
project
accounts
Supervision I1           7/98          4      R             All. I .F Is N, FA       S                S        Overdue
audits of
project
accounts



- 24 -
Supervision 12/           1/99           3           13         AU, EN, FA               S                S       I GOF's ICR
Completion                                                                                                          contribution;
updated HA
income data.
/a A/U: Architect/Urban Planner;, DC: Division Chief; DO  Disbursement Ofticer; EE: Environmental Engineer; EN: Engineer; FA:
Financial Analyst; IS: Institutional Specialist; LC: Legal Counsel, MS Management Specialist
/b ilS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; HU: Hlghly Unsatisfactory
Ic Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.



- 25 -                     ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Ministry of Local Government, Housing, and Environment
Housing Project (Ln. 3188 -FIJ)
Project Completion Report
Project Review from Ministry's Perspective
Project Objectives, design, implementation and operation experience
The main objectives of the project were:
a) Improved housing and urbanisation policy for Fiji and development of planning
standards appropriate to the needs of the lower income groups i.e. those in the 20"'
- 90"' decile of the national income distribution,
b) Institutional strengthening, and
c) Provision of affordable housing to lower groups.
Realization of part of objective (a) was made possible throughl the commissioning of a
study on housing and urban development funded by United Nations Environment
Programme. The report commonly knowni as thc Youl Report, was produced in 1991.
On the basis of the findings in the report, the Governmiiienlt endorsed a new housing and
urbanization policy for Fiji in 1995.
A Planning and Infrastructure Standards Study funldecd by the Asian Development Bank
began in November 1991. The rcport "Review ol l'lanninig and Infrastructure Standards"
is the product of the study.
The report identified key issues associated witli the application of planning and
infrastructure standards in the light ol the prescnt day circumstances and offered
recommendations for changes to planniilng andi infrastructure standards.
The Perry Report was adopted by the Govenmient and has been applied selectively,
particularly in lower income housing developmenlts.



- 26 -                     ANNEX A
Institutional Strengthening
The Institutional strengthening of the Department of Town and Country Planning was
undertaken with technical assistance from the Asian Development Bank. The report "A
Review of Urban Planning in Fiji (1993) is the product of this study.
A number of recommendations, particularly on urbanization, statutory framework and
urban infrastructure complements the You] Project. The recommendations are being
implemented wherever possible. For example, a review of the Town Planning legislation
is planned.
Provision of Affordable Housing to Lower Income Groups
The objective was met to some extent in that lower income earners were able to purchase
plots under the HA's "sites and services" scheme and build their owIn house with their
savings in the Fiji National Provident Fund.
In spite of reducing development standards, the rising cost of land development has made
affordable housing to the lower income group a challenge.
The Design and Build housing programme was a failure in that a lot of substandard
homes were built under this scheme and also the price was beyond most of the HA's
target group. About 100 homes built during 1995/96 are yet to be sold.
Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance
This section is more relevant to the Ministry of Finance and the Housing Authority.
Evaluation of the Performance of the Bank
The Bank's supervision of the project was very regular and useful to the Ministry.
Indeed, the supervision permitted the Ministry to have external reviews of the
performance of the HA. Without this supervision we wonder how the HA would have
performed.
Towards the end of the project, the Banks decision to add a condition to the extension of
the loan period was considered to be unreasonable.
On the whole, however, the Ministry was well satisfied with the Bank's supervision staff.



- 27 -                     ANNEX A
PROJECT REVIEW FROM HOUSING AUTHORITY'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank's Performance:
The review of the Bank's performance since loan inception is administratively
cumbersome. A more appropriate approach would be to provide annual performance
appraisals so that key issues are addressed and taken on board as and when they happen.
Among other issues a key positive feature of the bank's performance is its well
coordinated communication network with the borrower. In addition to the unfailing
supervision missions, the Bank succeeded in regularly keeping in touch with the borrower
up to the very end of the loan disbursement period in December 1998.
Having highlighted some positive aspects of the Bank's performance, there were certainly
areas of concern that were experienced particularly towards the final year of
disbursement. The Bank expected HA to conform to certain reporting requirements that
were virtually time consuming and confusing to compile. It would have been much
simpler if these reporting requirements were made known at the commencement of the
loan so that the borrower is clear from the start. The situation was aggravated by the fact
that supervision missions did not quite focus on the timely compilation and submission of
these reports.
The Borrower's Performance:
The Borrower's performance in terms of the delivery of the project objectives was
reasonably satisfactory. A major drawback in the borrower's performance is its failure to
strictly fulfill the financial covenants of the loan; In particular the required annual return
on equity of at least 5% subsequent to the 1990 fiscal year. The industrial situation in
1995; the related internal restructuring at Management level and major changes in the
Housing Authority accounting policy resulted in net equity deficiency.
rhe suspension of the design and build projects in 1996 was imposed as HA confronted
an influx of "construction related" home defects.
Subsequent to August 1996: HA concentrated on land development only with the
fundamental objective of delivering affordable land plots.
This new approach was well supported by the Bank during the 1997 -98 period.



-28-                        ANNEXA
Conclusion
It cannot be disputed that the borrower did not fulfill the financial covenants for reasons
well known to the Bank. It is however crucial to note that towards the end of the
disbursement period (I 197-98); the borrower had shown positive signs of financial
recovery and more importantly commenced on a number of land development projects
using innovative private sector design to deliver affordable plots to the 20'h- 70th
percentile income category.
These most recent projects include Nabua In-Fill, Field 40 and Caubati Stage 2.



-29 -                      ANNEX A
BRIEF NOTES ON MEETING BETWEEN WORLD BANK TEAM AND PRB
MANAGEMENT, JANUARY 1999
The Public Rental Board (PRB) did not receive any funding assistance from the World
Bank (WB), therefore it had not benefited from the loan component being reviewed.
PRB Management made the following comments to the World Bank Team during the
above meeting.
(i)   There was lack of involvement and consultation on PRB's part in the negotiation
and/or discussion pertaining to the loan.  Management believes that any
Organization being allocated funds from any source should have at least some
input in as far as the discussion and drawing up of the loan agreement and terms
of reference are concerned.
(ii)   Although during the course of past review missions the World Bank had
supported PRB's request to have rehabilitation funds paid directly to PRB as
grants , the Ministry of Finance was not willing to consider this as they would
have been required to repay the same to the World Bank. Management feels that
the World Bank should have considered passing the rehabilitation funds as grant
to both PRB and Govermment.
(iii)  PRB felt that the 1992 PRB Divestiture Report which was made possible through
World Bank funding was neither helpful nor beneficial in as far as PRB was
concerned.  The impractical, unrealistic and contradictory recommendations
contained in the report could have been avoided if PRB had been consulted prior
to the engagement of the two consultants. Management feels that PRB should
havc been involved in the discussion of the terms of reference and also in the
rccruitment of the consultants. PRB should have also been given the opportunity
it had requested for through the then Director of Operations, Mr. Jioji Guivalu to
evaluate thic Organization and came up with appropriate recommendations at least
after two years of operation. The decision to recruit the two consultants without
the knowledge of PRB was probably done as an after thought to utilize available
World Bank funds. The fact that the recommendations contained in the report
was not adopted is a clear indication of money not well spent.
(iv)   Management felt that PRB was created as part of the HA salvaging exercise,
therefore not much thought and care was given to it's creation and establishment.
Thc financial predicament PRB is currently faced with is a direct result of the
uncaring attitude and insufficient attention given in respect to the creation of PRB
especially during the transfer. Management believes that the focus was on the
Housing Authority and that PRB was conveniently created as part of a clean up
exercise to take over the Housing Authority debt.



- 30 -                    ANNEX A
In conclusion PRB Management informed the meeting that although PRB had not
benefited financially from the loan component being reviewed, it had benefited fiom the
experiences and support shown by the World Bank team during their supervision mission
to Fiji. This benefit and support was evident in the concerns raised by the WB in their
Aide Memoire pertaining to the need to have a clarity of direction and vision for PRB in
their report every year during the last 5 years.



-31-                                  ANNEX A
;  ^ ,M1ItNISTRY OiF FINANI.CE
Rn LatabaLaw House, Vktoria Parade, Suva. Fiji
P.O. Son 2212, Covernment Buidings, Suva, Fiji
relephone: (679) 307 011, Ttlex-F.1l 2121: Fesimile (679) 31)0034115 728
Fiji's Premier Ministry
Filc Reference: FIN. 13/5/11 s-TV                                 11/05/99
The Country Director, Fiji
East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
Washington D.C. 20433
USA.
Dear Sir
PE:: WORLD) BANK LOAN - HOUSING PROJECT lLN-3188 - FIJI
The Aide Memoire received from the World Bank Implementation Completion Report
Mission which was in Fiji from January 6 to 19, 1999 for the above project contains
allegations regarding poor performancc of the Ministry of Finance.
Our comments regarding the alregations made on page 14 (5.2) of the Aide Memoire are
as follows
(i)   In terns of guidance, iL is the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Environm-lent that is responsible for guiding the project from the
Government end because it is the Ministry directly responsiblc for
housing.  Guidance from the Ministry of Finance is from a financial
perspective. ie. making surc that the necessary provisions are made in the
annual budget estimates to facilitate on-lending of funds to the Housing
Authority, preparation of the consolidated audited accountns, processing
withdrawal applications received from the 1lousing Authority for onward
submission to the World Bank, etc. The Uank Missions had met senior
ofricials of the Ministry of Finance and dialogue with these officials as
reflected in the Memorandum of Understanding for these Missions have
becn meaningful.
Otir Values
Discipline   Hard Work  * Honetty  * Innovation  * C'nmmitment * Profemintaslism



-32 -                                     ANNEX A
(ii)    The Audit Report for the period 1990-95 was submitted to the Bankr in
December 1996. However, in February 1997, thc Bank advised that the
Audit Report %as not acceptable bccause of the qualification provided and
that they would like the audit to be carried out according to their format.
This required more detailed information to be provided by all the agencies.
The Audit Report in the required format for the periodl990-1996 was
submitted to the Bank in March 1998. The Auditor General has completed
the 1097 audit of the Project Financial Statement2(b) which was prepared
by the Ministry of linar.ce. ILowcver. they are still awaiting 1iousing
Auithority's Statemcnt5 l(a) I jer c fuudising the audit report.  Despite
repeated reminders, Housing Authority has yct to submit their project
tinanciai statcment.
(iii) Because of the above delay. wc had proceeded with submitting the
unaudited 1997 and 1998 Project Financial Statemcnt 2(b) (whIich the
Ministry of Finance was responsible) to the above Mission.  Housing
Authority is responsible for the preparation and subrr.ission of Project
Financial Statement l(a).
(iv)   All withdrawal applications received in respect of the project were
processed proniptly and forwarded to the Batik by the Ministry of Finance.
Any delay would ornly occur if the applications did not meet the Bank's
criteria i.c. claims for ineligible expenditurcs in which  case they were
retumed to thc Housing Authority for necessary adjustments prior to their
re-submission.
(v)    The 13ank was advised in March 1996 thiat the under-utilization of funds iti
the Special Account was due to the fact that only a few applicatiors for
reimbursement received from  the Housing Authority were within the
US$25,000 limit'for payment from the Special Account.
(vi)   The coordination of the project is the rcsponsibility of the Ministly of
TLocal Govemment, Hlousing and Environment. The Ilousing Authority
has been submitting quarterly projcct reports to the Bank .md therc is no
need for a consolidated report because the NL1 B assistance from the Bank
had been discontinued and assistance to PRB has not been provided. The
transfer ot the lending portfolio from  the Housing Authority to other
financial institutions was onc of conditions that the Bank had imposed
whcn v,e applied for the extension of the loan closing date. TiMs was not
one kf the project's original conditions and it contributed to the delay in
the disbursement of loan funds. Arising out of the condition imposed by
the Bank, it was proposed that two studies be carried out as follows:
1.   Restructuring Impact Study; aild
2.   I'Drtfolio Rcvsew.



33 -                                ANNEX A
14-IY-1999  09:47   FROM  MIN CF FlNNCE FMVI          TO 0512024776391           P.03
(vii)  The Bank had agreed to extend the loan closing date to 30 September 1998
only to allow for processing of outstanding claims.
(viii)  The Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Environment had
informed us that thc Impact Study should commence as soon as the
consultants could be identified provided funding is made available by the
8ank. In reply wc had informcd the Ministry of Local Governnent,
Housing & Environment that we will be discussing with them and the
Housing Authority the transfer of mortgage loans to the NBF at the latest
by the end of Scptcmbcr 1998.
(ix)   Had thc W'orld Bank not imposed conditions, which were not part of the
Loan Agreement, such as the transfer of Housing Authority Mortgage
Loan Portfolio to NBf'. loan funds would have been fully disbursed to the
Housing Authority.
We hope the above comments will clear the allegations made against thc Ministry of
Finance which we feel is totally tunfair since the project involved a number of
orgarnizations and co-financiers.
Yours faithfully
Nikn V Bulai
for Permanent Secretary for Finance
TOTAL P.03






- 35 -                     ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
Note: parts in bold-italic interface are contribution from GOF to the aide memoire
after the ICR mission ended.
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Project History
1.    At the time of the Government request for assistance from the World Bank in the
housing sector in 1986 the Housing Authority (HA), the main instrument of Government
housing policy, was facing difficulties in serving its low income target group. HA's
housing products were increasingly beyond the reach of low income households and
operational losses were mounting, despite regular subsidies from Government. A number
of causes were identified, including inappropriate development standards, rising
administration costs, weaknesses in key skill areas, a very costly public rental housing
program and the lack of coherent urbanization and housing policies.
2.    In the following several years, the situation worsened considerably and HA was in
danger of imminent collapse. It became increasingly apparent that a radical solution was
necessary if HA was to survive. After long discussion among Government officials, Bank
staff, HA management and outside experts, it was decided to take the rental housing
program out of HA and deal with its particular requirements separately, permitting HA to
focus on land development and lending operations which could be self-sufficient if run
efficienitly. With outside expert assistance, HA and rental housing rehabilitation programs
and policy statements were drafted and approved by Cabinet. The Public Rental Board
was established. Grant assistance from the Japan and UNDP/UNCHS was mobilized to
begin supporting these efforts while donor loan financing was being considered.
3.    Fiji had inherited a Western approach to town planning -- one that aimed at
optimizing the quality of life for its citizens by establishing high standard development
regulations. At project appraisal 1988, the Bank identified such standards as a constraint
on the provision of shelter products - plots and houses - for low to middle-income Fijians.
This was not a new observation: the issue of high physical standards and complex
development procedures had numerous times since the 1950's, been identified as well-
meaning, but restrictive to the point of denying access to shelter for many. It was noted
that the official approval process from land purchase to house construction in Suva took
at least two years. In spite of efforts over the years, this situation had barely changed at
the time of project appraisal by the Bank, and the revision of planning and construction
standards was made a key element in the Bank's project, a primary objective of which
was to improve the provision of affordable housing.



- 36 -                    ANNEX, B
Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the project were:
(a)   improved housing and urbanization policies for the sector as a whole and
development standards appropriate to the needs and means of the lower
income groups;
(b)   strengthened sector institutions; and
(c)   increased provision of affordable housing to lower income groups.
Project Components
5.    The project components were:
(a)   policy development to improve the urban and housing policy framework
and operationalization of urban policies, through technical assistance,
studies, training and equipment purchase for the Ministry of Housing and
Urban Development (now Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Environment);
(b)   institutional strengthening to: (i) improve urban planning and standards
development capability of the Town and Country Planning Department
TCPD); (ii) improve the land use planning capability of the Native Land
Trust Board (NLTB); (iii) improve operations management and financial
mangement of the Housing Authority (HA); (iv) improve operations of the
Public Rental Board (PRB); and
(c)   land development and housing through: (i) financing for development of
about 3,320 serviced plots, (ii) house construction finance on new and
existing plots; and (iii) rental housing rehabilitation.
Cofinanciers
6.    The project was cofinanced in parallel for components (b) and (c) above with a
loan of US$ 9.6 million by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) which was fully
disbursed and closed on March 14, 1996 after one extension. Further cofinancing of
about US$ 266,000 was provided by the United Nations Development Program (UND,P)
for policy development studies under component (a), and by a Population and Human
Resources Development (PHRD or Japanese) grant of Japanese Yen 150 million
administered by the Bank for technical assistance to HA under component (b). and an
ADB technical assistance grant of US$ 180,000.00 was also provided for HA under this
component.



- 37 -                     ANNEX B
PROJECT STATUS AT CLOSING
Disbursements
7.    As of December 31, 1998 the balance in the loan account was US$ 3,299,210.91,
i.e. US$ 12,900,789.09 of the US$ 16.2 million loan had been disbursed. The mission
confirmed earlier official advice from the Bank that the loan account will be closed and
any balance of the loan remaining would be cancelled by January 31, 1999 and a revised
amortization schedule will be calculated by the Bank. The Bank will still consider
withdrawal applications received prior to the above date for eligible expenditures under
the loan made prior to the September 30, 1998 closing date.
8.    As stated above, the ADB loan, the UNDP assistance, the PHRD grant and the
ADB technical assistance had been fully disbursed.
Accounts and Audits
9.    Following the clarification of discrepancies in the 1990-96 consolidated project
accounts provided to the last Bank mission (July 1998), the suspension of disbursements
based on statements of expenditures (SOEs) was lifted and disbursement against
previously returned HA applications for mortgage loans totaling F$3.5 million was made
by the Bank. Project accounts have been the responsibility of MOF, including directly
accounting for project expenditures by Government (i.e. MLGHE) and combining these
with accounts of project expenditures by other project agencies (i.e. HA, NLTB, PRB)
into consolidated project accounts. These consolidated project accounts were to be
audited annually and presented to the Bank.
10.   However, consolidated accounts were not prepared by MOF for the first seven
years of the project. It was not until the end of 1996, when it was made a condition of
Banlk approval of extension of the loan closing date, that MOF finally produced project
accounts and the audited statements were received by the Bank in March 1998 after some
necessary revisions had been made. Consolidated accounts for 1997 have been prepared
by MOF and submitted to the Auditor General. Completion of the audit is awaiting
submission HA's statement confirming the expenditures as shown. The 1997 audit was
due to be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1998. A copy of the unaudited project
accounts was reviewed by the mission and it was found that only the Statement 2 (b)
(World Bank loan disbursements) is included while Statement I (a) (total project costs)
prepared by the HA is missing. Draft 1998 project accounts provided to the mission by
MOF are likewise missing Statement 1(a)



- 38 -                     ANNEX B
HOUSING AUTHORITY
Land Development
11.   The physical outputs projected at appraisal included 3,320 serviced residential
plots, 2560 funded by the Bank and 760 by the ADB. HA's implementation focused first
on the ADB targets, and 1,151 were produced with ADB financing by the time of ADB
project closing. The Bank-funded plots were started somewhat later than those of the
ADB, but HA essentially worked on the two programs in parallel. With Bank financing,
HA produced 1880 plots by the September 30, 1998, closing date.
12.   Plot production under the IBRD/ADB housing project:
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Totals
IBRD            133          305   573   214   314   341   1880
ADB             606 _                     545                 1151
Totals          739       | 305   573   759   314   341  3031*)
13.  In addition to the production of plots through direct Bank financing, the proje'ct
aimed at supporting the production of 5,320 housing units through the funding of cash
loans to HA plot owners. 1,194 such loans were funded by the Bank and 707 by the
ADB for a total of 1901 mortgage loan.
14.   During the later stages of implementation the Bank urged HA to consider the
outsourcing of design, engineering, and construction supervision services to local
Architecture/Engineering firms due to concerns about HA's capacity to design
environmentally and socially appropriate land development at affordable cost. Earlier
HA efforts under the project had used massive earth moving to deal with difficult
topography, with questionable environmental effect. The Bank missions agreed with
MLGHE that more innovative designs would be feasible, using house construction and
circulation pattemns more adaptable to local topography. In spite of its highly qualified
and effective engineering staff, together with equipment and a site planner provided for
18 months under project TA, the HA land development office had difficulty moving away
from conventional site designs.
15.  In 1996, the Bank and HA management agreed that outsourcing the technical
work among several local firms, under the management of the HA technical team, could
be more efficient and was more likely to produce a variety of new design approaches. In
1998, contracts were signed with three firms to provide the design, engineering and
supervision for six sites yielding about 600 plots. Plot development cost and plot size
mix requirements, were included in the design contracts, in order to ensure affordability
to low- to middle-income families according to their approximate proportion among the
urban population. Designs for the first two sites are complete and tendering for
construction has started. Because of the closing of the Loan, these sites will not be
) Addition corrected by the Bank



- 39 -                    ANNEX B
financed under the project as planned by HA, but their characteristics will follow project
principles more closely than earlier project sites.
Finance
16.   Accounts/audits/management information system. HA has submitted audited
accounts to the Bank on an annual basis throughout the project, although generally after
the due date (nine months after the end of the financial year, i.e. September 30 of each
year). Accounts have been adequately maintained and audits found satisfactory, although
Bank staff noted frequently that HA accounting policy was inadequate with respect to
provisioning for doubtful debts and accrual of interest on loans in arrears. The
management information system, which was designed and implemented with project
financing (ADB), functions well and provides HA management with regular reports of
key data on land development, sales, mortgage financing and financial perfornance.
Corporate planning, another function supported under the project, is also sound.
17.   Financial Condition and Performance. HA's operations through November
1998 show a surplus of F$336,000, and December results are not expected to
significantly change it. This is the second consecutive year of positive financial results
and, while modest, the surplus is a commendable achievement given the large doubtful
debt provision HA had to make. The balance sheet remains extremely weak with
negative net worth of approximately F$ 1.8 million due to large write-offs of
uncollectable mortgage loans and overvalued stock in 1995 and 1996. GOF has not acted
on HA's request for recapitalization of F$20 million and, without a capital injection, HA
will require several more profitable years to rebuild its equity back to a positive level.
18.   However, GOF has tentatively approved HA's request for Government guarantee
of its projected 1999 borrowing program (F$22 million), contrary to previous GOF
statements that it would provide no more guarantees of state enterprise borrowing.
Govemnment has announced that it will in future provide such guarantees for a proposed
fee of 2%. HA has indicated that it will try to negotiate with MOF to reduce or eliminate
the fee. The new borrowing is primarily for debt repayment and HA will have to rely on
cash flow from mortgage loan repayments for continuing operations.
19.   HA has made progress in reducing mortgage loan arrears which have fallen to
F$3.9 million (2.9% of the mortgage portfolio) as of November 1998, down from F$5.2
million (4% of portfolio) in December 1997 and F$6.3 million (4.7%) in December 1996.
Equally important, the aging profile of the arrears is improving with the amount over 24
months overdue down from F$ 1.9 million at the end of 1996 to F$ 1.0 million in
November 1998. This progress is commendable and should continue with sustained
management attention to good loan underwriting practices and strong follow-up with
borrowers.
20.   HA Role. The studies of the impact of shifting of HA mortgage lending to a
financial institution which were recommended by the last mission and agreed with
Government and HA management, have not taken place. This is apparently due to



- 40 -                     ANNEX B
concerns within Government and the HA board about the ability and willingness of
commercial banks to serve HA's target group. The mission agrees that these are valid
concerns but had expected that the studies would provide valuable analysis of the issues
and contribute to discussions of Government's role in the housing and financial secltors
and the future of HA in particular.
Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Environment
21.   MLGHE had completed its part of project implementation through the
management, oversight and implementation of the urban and housing development policy
studies funded by UNDP and the Bank. The UNDP studies led to the endorsement in
1996 by Cabinet - after some debate and modifications - of the National Housing and
Urbanization Policy for Fiji; another study completed in 1993, on land development
standards, forns the basis for the current revision by the Town and Country Planning
Department of Fiji's Town Planning Regulations applied by local councils. A complete
list of the studies carried out as part of the project in support of the first objective is
shown in Annex 3.
22.   MLGHE also managed for PRB the Bank-financed study on "Options for
Divesting of Fiji Public Rental Housing Estates" which was completed and accepted in
1993; most of the recommendations of this study have, however, not yet been
implemented. The study of urban planning, including several working papers, such as on
urban growth and its monitoring, was completed in 1992 but has not yet led to any
changes in the urban planning legislation which is somewhat outdated; key
recommendations included the devolving of planning decisions and controls to local
councils and changes to the system of appeals.
Public Rental Board
23.   Apart from the study the of divestiture of public rental housing estates referred to
above and managed by MLGHE, PRB also benefited from TA for rental management and
restructuring early during project implementation.
24.   The only project sub-component to be managed by PRB was the rehabilitation of
about 760 rental housing units prior to their sale, estimated to cost USS 406,000.
Although PRB reports to have spent about F$ 200,000 on the rehabilitation of about 150
units, MOF did not agree to a reimbursement on a grant basis (as agreed at Negotiations)
of this eligible project expenditure since GOF, through its budget, was providing a
considerable annual operational grant. PRB subsequently ceased rehabilitation activities.
PRB sold only about 120 rental units during the project implementation period citing (i)
restrictive physical development standards enforced by local councils, (ii) tenure
problems with multiple units, and (III) difficulties with relocating sitting tenants unable
or unwilling to buy the units they occupy, as main reasons for the limited number of sales
of rental units.



- 41-                      ANNEX B
25.   Partially to deal with latter problem, and also in an effort to meet the continuing
high demand for low-cost rental housing, PRB has actually built some 133 new rental
housing units during the period of 1994 - 97. In the same period, from 1991 to 1997 (the
year for which data are available), the PRB has shown considerable improvements in its
performance as follows:
1991                     1997
inF$                    inF$
GOF operating grant     3,000,000                 1,250,000
Operating cost          2,241,688                1,580,000
Rental income             650,336                 1,301,729
26.   These improvements have come about by PRB increasingly charging and
collecting economic rent (except for the about 25% of PRB tenants who can not afford to
pay the full economic rent and are actually cases for Social Welfare to deal with). It has
also improved its collection performance considerably, to a good part by achieving about
60% of rent collection through direct salary deduction. Furthermore, as of January 1 st,
1998, GOF/MOF had taken over the F$ 2.2 million annual debt service with which PRB
had been saddled since it was set up, but PRB will continue to be responsible for the
promissory notes it has issued.
27.   On the other hand, PRB has not divested itself of the number of rental units
originally recommended, and actually continues to add new units to its stock. There has
also been little progress with fully contracting out or handing over maintenance functions
to tenants' groups. In summary, there seems to be a continuing lack of clarity and
direction as far as the policy of GOF for public rental housing is concerned.
Native Land Trust Board (NLTB)
28.   NLTB's physical planning activities under the project were intended to facilitate
better access to native land for housing development, through HA and the private sector.
It was clear during the 1980's that land for urban development-particularly housing-
could not continue to be provided by Crown and freehold land inventories, which were
rapidly being depleted. At the time of project appraisal Australian aid was providing the
training and equipment needed to digitize the nation's vast native land inventory. The
Bank project provided a land use planning expert, training and computer equipment to
help NLTB identify appropriate peri-urban land for development. As with PRB,
Government refused to pass on project funds on a grant basis as agreed, and NLTB
terminated the TA activity before it could be completed. It is doubtful that this activity
has been of any long term help to NLTB. The new NLTB management is actively
engaged with HA' in long-range planning in order to ensure appropriate urban land
inventories in future.
1 The Deputy General Manager of NLTB sits on HA's Board.



-42 -                      ANNEX B
29.   NLTB has recently produced its audited accounts for the period 1991 - 1997, and
in late 1998, restructured its organization (120 staff of 260 have been made redundant),
and has appointed some new management staff.
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Overall Assessment
30.   The project has been partially successful in achieving its objectives: the
improvement of housing and urbanization policies have been successfully accomplished;
the provision of affordable housing to lower income groups has been partially achieved;
and the strengthening of sector institutions has been marginally achieved.
Urban and Housing Policies I Development Standards
31.   Formulation. The inputs provided by the project (technical assistance, studies,
equipment and training) were successfully used by MHUD (currently MLGHE) to review
existing housing and urban policies and land development and housing standards and
draft new sector policies and new, more appropriate standards. The policy framework
was approved by Cabinet as the National Urbanization and Housing Policy. According to
MLGHE officials, the project studies and technical assistance helped to create a
comprehensive sector policy framework which did not exist before, provided much useful
data on housing demand and supply and served as the basis for securing substantial
external financing (IBRD and ADB) for the sector. New planning and development
standards permitting land development affordable to lower income households were
proposed. While these standards were largely applied in the project, they have been
controversial and resisted by town councils. However, Government has persisted in
promoting the revised standards and resistance has gradually reduced. TCPD has
recently begun working with the town councils on the general adoption by town councils
of the revised standards.
32.   Operationalization of Policies and Standards. While the revised planning and
development standards have become operational and are being generally adopted, project-
financed studies on increasing the role of the private sector in land and housing
development and mortgage finance have had little impact.
Strengthened Sector Institutions
33.   Improvement of urban planning and standards development capability in TCPD.
Project inputs (technical assistance and training) were not used and this sub-component
was not pursued.
34.   Improvement of land use planning capability in NLTB. This sub-component
was unsuccessful. The activity (involving three years of technical assistance as well as
training and equipment) was successfully initiated but was terminated by MOF at mid-
point due to a change in policy concerning use of loan funds for technical assistance.



- 43 -                     ANNEX B
35.   Improvement in management of operations and finance in HA. This activity
(four experts, training and a new mainframe computer and software) successfully
improved corporate planning, accounting, data processing and management information
systems and procurement. Improvements in physical planning and project management
were made but did not have a lasting impact (the functions are currently outsourced to
consultants). More importantly, the improvements made did not have the expected
impact on HA finances which deteriorated badly during the project and only began to
recover with the appointment of new management in 1996.
36.   ADB provided more grant TA during 1995 - 1996 in the areas of corporate
planning, lending operations and site planning. This assistance is considered to have
been useful and successful since it helped the new HA management to prepare a new
corporate plan, and the site planner assisted greatly to formulate a new, more appropriate
approach to land development and plot pricing.
37.   Improvement in operations of PRB. Project inputs (technical assistance and
equipment) had little impact few of the expected changes in the public rental housing
program have occurred.
PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO LOWER INCOME GROUPS
Land development
38.   This component was quite successful from a physical perspective as 3031 plots*,
were developed generally employing the new affordable standards. Actual plot costs
(range of F$3600 to F$14600 and average cost of F$7727) were higher than expected
(range: F$2600 to F$12400, average: F$5250) but plots were still affordable to the 7Yh
percentile of the urban income distribution. The sale of plots was expected to reflect the
income distribution, although households as high as the 80th percentile were eligible,
which was expected. The income distribution of actual buyers shows that 52% of the
plots reached lower income households (below the 50"' percentile). Thus, this component
generally achieved the objective of providing affordable housing to the target group.
39.   The parameters of World Bank financing for the project call for the delivery of
affordable plots and cash loans to "lower income groups". Public and Government
perception of HA performance is that HA has not been reaching its mandated target
group, and Bank and ADB monitoring has supported this view. However, HA has been
using outdated income data in guiding its planning and monitoring its performance, and
neither Government, the Bank nor the HA can point to income data that is current or
robust enough to measure HA performance or to guide HA development policy. In
demonstrating to Government and lenders how well the target group has been served, HA
needs to replace the 1993 income distribution currently in use to reflect income
movements to date. The outdated data shows HA and project performance in an
unfavorable light. As it has in past visits, the mission discussed this impasse with Bureau
) Number of plots and text revised further to corrected plot number provided by GOF.



- 44 -                      ANNEX B
of Statistics staff and recommended a potential solution. It is essential for all parties that
this solution be pursued immediately, as the ICR ratings will be partly based on the
achievement of beneficiary income targets.
40.   The mission discussed with HA the feasibility of carrying out a sample social
survey of 3 to 4 completed housing development estates covering about 300 plots in the
Suva region including one in the Western region. Such a survey would give HA, GOF
and the Bank a better idea of the profile of HA beneficiaries, their family incomes,
housing types built, adequacy of infrastructure, transport and community facilities,
availability of other amenities, and other relevant infornation. If a full survey is not
feasible, focus group meetings with members of tenant associations or other community
groups (where they exist) would at least provide some of this information albeit on a less
scientific, statistically significant basis. HA seemed willing to carry out some forn of
survey, and the mission provided some suggestions of the type of questions to ask, as
well as contacts of individuals skilled and experienced in participatory surveys.
House Construction Finance (on new and existing plots)
41.   House construction loans financed under the project did not meet expectations,
either in number of loans or in reaching the target group (ref. ADB ICR). The average
loan amount was F$1 7,634, well in excess of the expected average (F$4,060 for new
plots and F$10,875 for existing plots) and the expected maximum loan amount (F$ICI,480
- new plots, F$12,000 - existing plots) was not exceeded. The income distribution2 of
borrowers indicated that 60% of loans financed under the project reached lower income
households.
42.   Summary of cash mortgage loans for house construction (on Bank-financed or
other plots) financed under the IBRD/ADB housing project:
1992   1993   1994  1995   1996  1997  1998  Totals
IBRD    _             384   556            254           1194
ADB   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A   ---    ---    707
Totals                                                   1,901
Rental Housing Rehabilitation
43.   Rehabilitation financing provided under the project was not used.
IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
Housing Authority
2 The income distribution referred to above is an estimated extrapolation of household incomes done buy the GOF/HA



- 45 -                      ANNEX B
44.   General and Land Development. HA's performance in this area can be rated as
satisfactory since it submitted timely, though brief summary-type, quarterly progress
reports of outputs. The design and construction of serviced plots went well, although
there were some delays and cost overruns, some caused by poor weather and site
conditions. However, HA's project management was good (initially assisted by
expatriate experts) and procurement followed Bank guidelines closely. In fact, HA
continues to use the Bank procurement documents and procedures (including the
prequalification of contractors) because of their transparency and efficiency.
Construction quality is good on all sites, and there is very little deterioration of
infrastructure and filled areas.
45.   The new management of HA (in place since 1996) - supported very actively by its
new board -- has adopted a new, more appropriate, approach to affordable land
development and plot pricing, and has also initiated a, so far, successful outsourcing of
design and supervision of land development.
46.   Financial performance has been poor throughout the project period, and its
current financial condition is extremely weak. Operating results in the last two years are
encouraging but without a large capital injection, it will take several years for HA to re-
generate a positive net worth. There are two Project Agreement covenants relating to HA
financial performance: (a) return on equity of at least 5% from 1990 and (b) ratio of
operating expenses to total assets of 3% from 1995.
47.   As indicated in the attached financial performance annex, HA satisfied the return
on equity covenant only in 1992-95. However, the declared return in those years is
suspect in light of the heavy write-offs taken in 1995-96 which point to a failure to write
down inflated stock values or to make proper doubtful debt provisions in earlier years
which would have resulted in operating losses and negative returns on equity. As long as
net worth remains negative, even operating surpluses cannot generate a rate of return and
this ratio is not meaningful.
48.   HA also failed to satisfy the operating expenses/total assets ratio throughout the
project with actual performance averaging 4.1 %. Significant progress has been made in
1998 and HA is now close to achieving the target. With respect to other financial
performance indicators, HA has generally met current ratio targets but has failed to reach
targets for debt/equity, interest service, operating surplus/revenues and mortgage loan
collection ratios.
Ministries and other agencies
49.   Ministry of Finance performed poorly because they provided little guidance and,
especially during the later parts of the implementation period, did not engage in a
meaningful communication and dialogue with Bank missions which were unable to meet
senior officials of the ministry. MOF was slow in processing withdrawal applications,
was unable to make the Special Account operable (it was closed by the Bank due to lack
of activity), and did not prepare any consolidated audited project accounts until the end of
1996 when the project was about to close. The accounts prepared then had to be re-done



- 46 -                      ANNEX B
during 1997 because they were inadequate and were only ready and audited in early 1998.
MOF also did not make any efforts to compile quarterly consolidated project reports or to
coordinate the project. MOF did show some initiative when in early 1997 it proposed
considering transfer of the lending portfolio away from HA to other financial institutions,
but did not follow up and the situation is therefore unresolved at project closing.
50.   MLGHE took on leadership provided project coordination; they a'lso maintained
an active and responsive policy dialogue and communications with the Bank. The
ministry was effective in managing the numerous policy studies and also was successful
in formulating and operationalizing the new policies and standards. MLGHE also
provided mostly effective oversight over the project implementing agencies, especially
the HA, and following the management crisis late in 1995, the Pennanent Secretary,
MLGHE, took over as acting chief executive and started to implement the
recommendations of GOF's committee of enquiry into the operations of HA.
51.   Other agencies had too little involvement in the project to allow the assessrment
of their implementation performance.
Environment and Resettlement
52.   The project which was appraised in 1988 was not subject to the Bank guidelines
(OD 4.01) on environmental assessment. The project's environmental impacts were,
however, assessed to be positive since the living conditions, environment and physical
infrastructure of several thousand families would be improved. Infrastructure provided
included central sewage collection which is mandatory in urban areas in Fiji. The land
development component had greater environmental impacts than anticipated since m,ost
of the sites had hilly topography, and major earthworks were carried out to develop small
building plots. However, adequate drainage systems were installed which - together with
revegetation through plantings by residents -- have prevented erosion. The more mature
estates actually present an attractive planted environment, and slopes are stable and drains
are working. There are some concems, however, whether the drains are being maintained
(residents may have to the initiative in this area) and garbage is collected regularly in all
estates by the respective local councils
53.   Bank missions had urged HA to do better site planning and use more
environment-friendly approaches to land development - avoiding major earthworks.
MLGHE and especially the current Minister also strongly advocate a more
environmentally sensitive approach to land development. The Sustainable Development
Bill - whose sections on EIA is expected to be adopted in February 1999 will require all
agencies, including HA, to develop "environmental codes of practice" which will further
lead to a better approach to land development.
54.   With regard to resettlement, project appraisal had identified only a few families
living (and some squatting) on project sites which would be affected by the project. HA
had adopted a resettlement policy with adequate provisions for accommodating sitting
residents on the newly developed sites. HA's resettlement office implemented this policy
consistently and there no difficulties with resettlement.



- 47 -                      ANNEX B
Bank Performance
55.   Borrower's Views. The Bank had provided long-lasting continuity of its staff
with two staff who were involved in preparation and appraisal of the project also doing
most of the supervision of implementation, and a third staff member being involved
during most of the supervision right up to the final evaluation. This continuity led to
consistent advice based on the original agreements - with the Bank thereby providing
some helpful institutional memory. Bank staff was also insistent on the right approach,
especially when it came to delivering affordable products to the project's target group.
HA found Bank advice and suggestions from their international experience and
perspective often useful.
56.   On the other hand, GOF found the late introduction of action on the possible
portfolio transfer of HA - which was not one of the project's original conditions --
difficult to deal with when they applied for the second extension of the loan closing date.
GOF was also openly critical of the late submission by the Bank of the financial sector
report which addressed, among others, the issue of HA's lending portfolio and its
possible transfer to other, commercial banking institutions. Possibly due to this delay,
GOF still has not proceeded to at least study the potential impact of such a portfolio
transfer.
57.   Mission's Views. Bank performance during preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory, as it was carried in a somewhat uncertain political situation following the
1987 coup. Bank made good efforts to mitigate against the likely risks of investing in the
public housing sector, but the potential for quick progress in policy operationalization and
institutional improvements was overestimated.
58.   During supervision the Bank ensured continuity of staff involved with the project
(see above), although it may be possible that some change and turnover of staff may have
brought in new perspectives and approaches from the Bank's side. Bank supervision
missions were generally well staffed in the early and late period of the implementation,
but lacked critical financial expertise during the middle period. Statement of
cxpenditures for house construction loans were not regularly reviewed by the supervision,
and the extent of the poor targeting of this sub-component was not fully exposed although
the Bank missions did resist a re-allocation to the sub-loans category.
59.   The Bank was indeed very late in completing and forwarding to GOF the financial
sector report, although this was not the responsibility of the supervision teams.
60.   Communication, coordination and cooperation between the co-financiers was
always good and effective, with generally consistent advice an d approaches (except for
the onlending formula). There was also one joint mission by ADB and the Bank, and the
project TA was complementary.



- 48 -                      ANNEXB
FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT OUTCOME
61.   Only a few factors affecting the project outcome were identified by the mission,
and only such factors which were subject to GOF's control as follows:
i)    GOF/MOF's decision to use a different formula for onlending ADB funds
to HA which made ADB cheaper to HA and resulted in a quicker and
earlier drawdown of ADB loan funds;
ii)    MOF's failure to allow loan funds agreed and allocated for TA on a grant
basis (from GOF) to be passed on to HA and to NLTB, thereby adversely
affecting the institutional strengthening objective of the project; and
iii)   the protracted management crisis of HA in 1995, i.e. mainly the differences
between the HA Board and management which diverted HA's energies and
attention away from its business; it led, however, to the appointment of a
governmental Committee of Inquiry, a very positive change in management
in 1996, and the appointment of a new board have contributed considerably
to HA's recent improved perfomance.
62.   The mission did not identify any factors which were not subject to GOF's control.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
HA Operations (Land development and shelter financing)
63.   Since neither the loan nor thc projcct agreemcnt specitically requircs HA to
prepare an operational plan (it is a requiremellt included in later projects only), it is not
necessary for HA to prepare an operational plani. Moreover, HA has rccenitly issued its
"Corporate Plan for 1999 to 2003" wlichi covers its cntire opcrations, and has bccn
prepared in anticipation of eventual (aftcr the year 2000) corporatization and
commercialization of HA. The corporate plan includes a viSion, a IninssionI statemlent,
HA's corporate philosophy, a statement of objectivcs, a coprporatc strategy, specific
strategic action plans for all areas of HA's operations, the budget, and targets for land
development, sales and lending for 1999 and beyond.
64.   HA's vision is summarized as "... providing comlpetitive and quality services
towards better housing and living standards for its pcople." [IA's ImlissioIn statement is
worth reproducing in full since it very clearly spells out [IA's contillucd and re-
emphasized intention to serve low and middle incomc fanilics:
3 It is not expected, nor necessary, that any of the other agencies prepare an operational plan.



-49 -                       ANNEX B
The mission of the Housing Authority is to provide on a financially viable basis,
timely and cost effective loanfinanceprincipallyfor middle and low income
families in Fiji
65.   The corporate philosophy of HA talks about ".... searching for better and more
affordable ways to serve their [middle and lower income families'] housing needs." It
also refers to better customer service, performance measurements, and human resource
development. The statement of objectives refers again to . affordability by low and
middle income families, defined as those between the 20tIl and 90"' national income
percentiles and with special focus on the wage earners below the 70'h percentile.", and
one of the key corporate strategies addresses the need for affordable land development.
66.   The key performance targets set out in the corporate plan are as follows:
Ratio/Indicator                            Target          Year ofAchievement
TotalAdminCost/Total Revenue               20%             2000 (25% in 1999)
Arrears/Total Mortgage Portfolio           4%              1999 (3% in 2000)
Collection efficiency                      87.5%           2000
67.   HA further identifies close liaison with NLTB as an important strategic action to
secure adequate land in the future for the development of affordable housing, but there is
also need to coordinate with FEA, PWD, TCPD and especially PWD to ensure advance
planning so that the necessary infrastructure services will be available by the time the
plots are ready for sale (this has become a constraint in the Western region).
68.   HA has recently made good progress in the land development and financial areas,
with outsourced estate design proceeding to construction early in 1999. The organization
hias been restructured, the number of staff have beenl reduced, and administrative costs
were down to 25% of total revenue for 1997.
69.   Overall, HA's corporate plan appears to he comprelhenisive, credible and
achievable and therefore is considered to form a goo(d basis to continue its operations
following the closures of the ADB and World Bank loanls. Under- the leadership of the
present Board and management HA is considered to bc ablc to continue to improve its
performance and deliver affordable housillg to lower and middle income families.
Urban Planning and Development Standards
70.   The project's primary activity aimed at improving planniing standards to lower
costs and enhance affordability was the review of planning and infrastructure standards
("Perry Report"). In addition to this work, thc Government, HA, and the Bank team
sustained continuous dialogue on this issue and reviewed the HA's success in applying
relaxed standards, thereby monitoring the extent to which the new approach was being
followed. The Perry Report recommendations were accepted by the Ministry of Housing
and Urban Development on 1/6/93. However, they have not been legally adopted. Under
the project, the new standards could be applied, but local authorities resisted in general,



-50 -                        ANNEX B
requiring ministerial intervention and causing delays. Even so, compromises were
required because of local authority resistance. Under these circumstances, the
sustainability of Perry Report recommendations is uncertain.
71.   However, there is some room for optimism in the longer term: the current
Minister of LGHE is an articulate advocate of affordable standards in order to make
housing available to lower income citizens, and the new standards were officially
distributed to local authorities in late 1998 as a first step in their establishment in
operational regulations. The distribution will be followed in early 1999 by local
workshops in which local officials can discuss their concerns with Town and Country
Planning and other Ministry staff, and the benefits of revised standards can be promnoted.
After these workshops TCPD expects to formalize the new standards by incorporating
them into the Town Planning Regulations. MLGHE will permit the new and old
standards to be used at the discretion of the developer, depending on1 market demands. If
it occurs, this institutionalization of relaxed development standards will be a significant
breakthrough that has been awaited for decades, and will clearly improve shelter options
for low income groups.
Other Agencies
72.   MLGHE has shown continuity of key staff and consistency with their policy
implementation throughout the project, and they are expected to continue their close
oversight and guidance in the urban and housing sector. In addition to the current
minister, senior key staff are equally committed to the goals of affordable housing for
lower and middle income groups.
73.   PRB is leaner and stronger now and tlheir perfonmance has improved
considerably, but sustainability is uncertain because of the unsettled policy situation with
respect to rental housing in Fiji.
74.   NLTB's prospects for sustainability arc good following their radical restructuring
in 1998 which cut their costs and brougILht in a strong and dynamiiic management tearn.
Cooperation and coordination with IIA hIavc also bcc markedly improved since NLTB
considers HA (and urban rcsidcntial land cIcvclopeilcint) as onc of their major sources of
future growth in business and revetnc.
LESSONS LEARNED
75.   Direct public sector investment in land development and housing finance is
problematic - particularly with respect to financial perforrnance - in spite of mitigating
measures introduced into project design and conditionality. This project insisted on the
splitting off from HA of the highly subsidized rental operations and the accumulated.
debt, required the recapitalization of HA, and extracted a good policy statement from
government, but the public housing sector is still fraught with many of the problems
encountered when the project was first identified.



- 51-                       ANNEX B
76.   Formulation, adoption and operationalization of new policies takes much longer
than usually assumed by government and the Bank at the appraisal of a project, but
political will and determnined efforts by government agencies will eventually lead to
success.
77.   Due to cultural factors, civil service inertia and human resource constraints,
institutional strengthening programs also need more time, and sustained improvements in
the performance of institutions seem to take considerably longer than the average project
implementation period. Therefore, institutional development goals set by the Bank are
usually too ambitious.
78.   For the provision and financing of TA (for institutional strengthening) bilateral
assistance is preferable by GOF because it is on a grant basis to GOF, can be passed on as
a grant, and does not have to be repaid. The benefiting agenicies also prefer such TA,
because the funds channeling is usually more flexible, i.e. the funds are advanced. This
is especially important in Fiji where is was not possible to operate a Special Account
successfully.
79.   Introduction of additional conditions by the Bank later during the project
implementation can lead to resistance and a lack of response on the part of the Borrower
and its agencies.
80.   Bank sector reports must be delivered in a timely manner (and not a year later) to
be effective and of use to the client.
COMPLETION OF PROJECT EVALUATION
81.   Due to the somewhat unexpected closure of the loan, neither Bank nor GOF had
made advance preparations for doing the evaluation of the project implementation. The
Bank had invited, in a communication in November 1998 GOF to consider carrying out
its assessment of the project; however, project funds are no longer available for this
purpose. The mission discussed this matter with GOF agencies, and provided advice and
suggestions on how a simple -- and useful to GOF -- evaluation could be carried out by
GOF agencies -- without relying on any consultants. To assist in this, the mission
provided key topics to be addressed, left a sample of a GOF evaluation of an earlier Bank
project, and suggested questions for a social survey to be carried out in HA estates
developed under the project. In order to be reflected and included in the Bank's ICR,
GOF's evaluation will have to be forwarded to the Bank by March 31, 1999.
82.   Bank staff has commenced preparation of the ICR, and will use data, information,
and views gathered during this mission to complete preparation of the first draft.
Important information is still needed and expected to be received from GOF agencies (see
table below), especially the updated income distribution which is essential for assessing
whether the lower income groups have adequately benefited from the project - a key
measure of this project's success.



-52 -                       ANNEXB
83.   Bank management has set May 31, 1999 as the date by which the ICR for this
project has to be sent to the Bank's board of directors. In order to meet this deadline, the
timetable below will have to be kept:
Necessary Data/Information/Action                Responsibility       Due Date
1. Submit Statement 1 (a) for 1997 and 1998        MOF/HA             Feb 28/99
2. Complete information (number, costs, etc.) on
all HA's land development schemes                     HA              Jan 31/99
3. Plot sales by year, estate and income              HA              Jan 31/99
4. Cash loans by amount, year and income              HA              Jan 31/99
5. HA's signed accounts for 1998                      HA              Mar 31/99
6. Updated household income distribution          HA to arrange       Mar 15/99
MLGHE to assist
7. Results of social survey of housing estates        HA              Mar 31/99
8. GOF's consolidated evaluation of project     MOF & MLGHE           Mar 31/99
9. GOF's comments on Bank's draft ICR (to bc
forwarded by Bank to GOF by Apri]l 15/99)       MOF & MLGHE          May 10/99



FIJI HOUSING AUTHORITY
PLOT DEVELOPMENT DATA FROM JANUARY 1991 TO DECEMBER 1998&)
Site Name            Contract Financed No.  Designed   Actual           Construction              No. of Plots by size                 Designed-
of                                                                                            Build
No.   By        Plots   By        Cost   Start    Compl. Delivery   200-300 301-400 401-500 501-   over   (No. of
600    600
date    Date   to buyers                                           Plots)
Nadawa/Nepani          E/178     H/A    237    H/A    1464937.01  2/10/86 13/09/91  13/09/91                                                0
Legalega               E'261     H/A    39      H A      284961.51  6/10/95 20/05/96  26/06/96    0       0       0       0      39         0
Matavolivoli           E/'265    H/A    162   NLDC   1084800.00 13/09/91 19/06/92  19/06/92       0      145     17       0      0         130
Wainimako              E.301    IBRD    133    H A    1355000.00  1/05/91  6/07/92   6/07/92      5       19     53      30      26         50
Caubab                 E,302    IBRD    305    H A    3400932.28 23/06/92 12/01/94  12/01/94    226       31     24       4      20        142
Tavakubu 2             E.30r3    ADB    606    H A    3635965.83  1/04/91 19/10/93  19/10/93    132      229    111      77      57        255
WailaAgnculture        E.304     H'A    67      H A     1512421.67  8/10/91  9/02/93   9/02/93    0       0       0       0      67         0
Nadawa 2               E'305     ADS    591    H A    6450534.00 19/10/92 17/11/94  27/01/95    340      147     45      28      31        100
Muanikoso              E'306     ADB    264    H A    1618070.00 23/03/94 31/03/96  31/03/96    122       87     31       7      17         50
Tavakubu 6             E.'309    ADB    281    H A    1529543.00 26/01/94  8/02/93   8/02/96    197       39      27      8      10        125
Naulu                  E/310     H A    242    H A    1390828 00 15/01/95 24/05/96  24/05/96    158       59      14      5      6          0
Savuniwai              E.312    IBRD    314    H/A    2478634.00 20/01/97 15/12/97  15/12/97    38       135     94      17      30         0
Chadwick               E/313     H/A    65      H/A      397339.00 27/01/94 11/06/96  11/06/96    3               3       3      56         0                        >
Covata                 E/314    IBRD    140    H/A    1288785.00  1/06/94 24/02/95  24/02/95                                                50
Waila 3A               E/316    IBRD    214    H/A    2042324.77 27/02/96 03/02/97   3/02/97      0       17      84     73      40         0
Balawa                 E/317     H/A    64      H/A      385877.45 15/08/94 31/03/96  31/03/96                           11      53         0
Tacirua East           E/319    IBRD    341    H/A    2793340.66 12/04/96 30/04/98  30/04/98    78       124     56      19      64         0
Tavakubu Infill        E/322     H/A    43      HiA      331039.00 28/02/97 18/12/97  18/12/97    0       6      20      12       5         0
Total:              408 Plots developed during project implementation period using IBRD, ADB, and HA financing.
X
) The plot development data has been provided by the HA. based on their records.



-54-                                       ANNEX B
Annex 2
Housina Authority - Finanrial Results
(F$'O0O)
1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995     1996    1997    1998
(thru 11/98)
Total Capital&Reserves             1,702     804    2,052    4,311      5,819    3,426   -2,219   -2,104   -1,768
Current Assets                   20,000   19,119   28,778   34,999   47,375   44,936   30,166   37,621   31,669
Total Assets                      85,294   86,554  107,696  127,979  153,743  167,322  168,923  166,549  170,224
Mortgage Loans                   60,005   62,164   66,008   83,058  105,643   118,831   126,261  131,060  132,887
Provision for Doubtful Debts      2,794    2,516    2,311     2,250    1,478    5,000    9,540    8,632    7,942
Net Mortgage Loans               57,211    59,648   63,697   80,808  104,165   113,831   116,721  12,428  124,945
Current Liabilities               10,370   13,279   16,659   16,876   22,028   13,398   19,009   34,767   23,780
Long Term Debt                   72,860   72,121    88,635  106,442   125,546  150,161   151,833  133,886  130,480
Total Revenue                     12,873   14,237   18,629   25,936   35,747   32,172   29,110   20,389   16,799
Interest Incomne                  7,064    7,396    7,385    8,809   10,895   12,883   13,644   14,856   12,958
Interest Expense                  7,062    6,558    7,468    7,794    8,922   11,476   12,547   12',358   10,653
Total Operating Expenses          3,276    3,798    4,651     5,584    6,869    7,045    6,133    5,995    5,055
Bad Debt Write-offs                1,627     300       600      300      963    3,522    3,322    1,861    1,454
Operating Surplus/Deficit        -2,216      -479       43      518      687       309   -1,066      115      336
Extraordinary Iterms              1,075   -1,419      205         0        0    -2,702   -4,630        0        0
Profit/Loss                       -1,141   -1,898      248      518      687   -2,393   -5,696       115      336
iortgage Loan Arrears             7,177    7,697    5,818    5,392    5,838    5,581      6,251    5,206    3,882
Borrowing Interest Rate (average)  9.00%    9.90%    8.20%    8.10%    8.10%    8.30%    8.30%    8.26%    8.20%
Interest Eamed Rate              11.80%   11.90%   11.20%   10.60%   10.80%   10.90%   10.80%   11.34%    9.75%
bousinq Au,thontv - Financial
Perforrarnce Indicators
Retum on Equity                  -51.9%  -151 5%    17.4%    16.3%    13.6%   -51.8%  -943.8%    (a)       (a)
(Project Agreement Covenant)     5.0%      5.0%     5.0%     5.0%      5.0%     5.0%     5.0C/o    5.00/o    5.0%
Operating Expenses/Av.Total Assets  3.8%    4.4%     4 8%      4 7%     4.9%     4.4%      3.6%     3.6%     3.0%
(Project Agreement Covenant) (b)  -        -        -        -        -         3.0%     3.0%     3.0%     3.0%
DebUEquity Ratio                   42.8      89.7     43.2     24.7      21.6     43.8    -68.4    -53.6    -73.8
(Appraisal Expectations)           7 1     10:1       7:1      5:1      5:1      4:1       3:1   (c'      (C)
Current Ratio                       1 93     1 44     1.73     2.07      2.15     3.35     1.59      1.08    1.33
(Appraisal Expectations)          1 1:1    1 2:1    1.2:1     1.4:1    1.5:1    1.5:1     1.4:1   (C)     (c)
Profit-Loss/Revenues              -8.9%    -13.3%     1 3%     2.0%     1.9%    -7.4%    -19.6%     0.6%     2.0%
(Appraisal Expectations)        10.6%    16.0%    19.0%    22.20/o   24.3%    27.3%    31.1%    (c)       (c)
Interest Service Ratio             0.84      0.71     0.83     0.89      0.87     0.86     0.55     0.65     0.58
(Appraisal Expectations)          1 16     1 25      1.30     1.37     1.41      1.50     1.56   (c)      (c)
Collection Ratio (d)               -        .        -         -        -       66.6%    68.5%    71.3%    73.8%
(Appraisal Expectations -ADB)     60%      70%       80%      85%      90%      95%       95%    (c)      (c)
Lending Spread                    2.80%    2.00%    3.00%    2.50%    2.70%    2.60%    2.50%    3.08%    1.55%
(a) Retum cannot be calculated on negative equity
(b) 3% covenant ratio was to be achieved from 1995 ornard
(c) Appraisal projected HA finances only to 1996
(d) Data unavailable before 1995



-55-                            ANNEX B
Annex 3
LIST OF PROJECT-FINANCED STUDIES
(in chronological order)
Study                                Source of Financing
Review of Rental Housing Program
of Housing Authority - Crosby - 1988                   HA
Housing Needs Assessment - PADCO - 1989           UNDP/UNCHS
National Urbanization/Housing Policy Studies - 1991  UNDP/UNCHS
- Community Organizations/Private Sector -
Finseth/Barr
- Urban Land Markets - Greenwood
- Urban Administration - Qalo
- Working Papers - Youl
- Final Report/Policy Recommendations - Youl
Capital Markets Study - 1991 - Barker et al.          ADB
Housing Resource Mobilization Study - 1991 -
Barker et al.                                         ADB
Human Settlements Sector Review - 1992               UNCHS
Planning Standards - Perry - 1992                     ADB
Urbanization Monitoring Study - Crosby - 1992         ADB
Options for Divestiture of Fiji Public Rental
Housing Estates - Communities Group - 1993            IBRD



-56-                               ANNEX B
Annex 4
LIST OF PEOPLE MET
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Mr. Netani Vosa, Principal Assistant Secretary
Ms. Salesia Draunidalo, Budget Division
Ministry of Local Government, Housing & Environment (MLGHE)
Hon. Vilisoni Cagimaivei, Minister
Mr. Rishi Ram, Permanent Secretary
Mr. Bhaskaran Nair, Deputy Permanent Secretary
Mr. Peni Gavidi, Director, Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD)
Mr. Kolino Bola, TCPD
Mrs. Vinaia Tabuatamata
Ministry of National Planning (MNP)
Ms. Anita Nair, Acting Deputy Secretary
Mr. Paula Navunisaravi
Housing Authority (HA)
Ms. Sereana Qoro, Chief Executive
Mr. Jimione Raiwalui, General Manager, Finance & Administration
Mr. Alipate Naiorosui, Board Secretary / Manager Corporate Planning
Mr. Eapi Nabou, Manager Western Region
Mr. Amino Tamani, Valuer, Central Division
Mr. Mike Tupua, Land Development
Public Rental Board i(PRB)
Mr. Solomoni Naivalu, General Manager
Mr. Leonard Kwansing, Manager Administration and Board Secretary
Mr. Pat Kustino Veu, Manager Properties
Mr. Bineshwar Singh, Manager Finance
National Land Trust Board (NLTB)
Ms. Cema Rokoloma, Depuly General Manager
Mr. Seva Tabua, Director, Strategic Land Services
Mr. Mojito Mua, Regional Director (Central)
Mr. Semi Tabakanalagi, Regional Director (Western)
Mr. Emosi Toga, Regional Director (Northern)
Bureau of Statistics
Mr. Kishore Chetty, Advisor
Mr. Epeli Waqaronavona
Ms. Lawai
Mr. Pita Nacuva, Permanent Secretary, Min. of Tourism, Civil Aviation & Meteorology
Mr. Navitalai Naisoro, Economic Consultant
Mr. Steve Blaik, Consultant, Kingston Morrison, Engineers Scientists Planners



MAP SECTION



IBRD 30222
178'30'
' Rakiraki
Tavu-                                                                    Navuso
Lautoka -f.-L'  
.                      -- -cs.                   Sawani                               7'
Nadi              Viti
- L e v u              -n                   =s\'\\                                                      asr
Le-y . t   NaVsori
Sigatoka -,                         Sva
.-     Area of Map
=~~'9 ><> / ~Coloisuvc a < \
/ 4  C, X  X   i                     <>                    Q ~~~~~~~Naulu 
1 7; f ~<  ,  ManikoX / 18205''
1 805'
Woiioku     C4'>' /ar o                              Kralabo It      -/
Waio,r    -  T9                        C. ubati
Nadowa
To Novcsa                                 //                                                                                              ii> /
To No>                                                                  N                                      '7'
J  7                                                              9    // ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ / 7 
Wharf,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                ,~
HOUSING PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT SITES
SUVA REGION
Muanivatu                       PROJECT DEVELOPMENT SITES (IBRD & ADB)
CITY BOUNDARY
-   gG r MAJOR ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
BUILT-UP AREAS             Th1n~Ai maop was produced by the
BUILT-UP AREAS                     Map Design Unit of The World Bank,
The boundaries, colors, denominations
-   RIVERS                              and any other itformcstion shownnon  *1801
-8l01                                                                                                              thhs nmap do not imply, on the part of    8 1
.   >  0   1          2         3          4      rThe World Bank Group, any judgment
-~~~~~~  -,                                                                  a~~~~~~ 123    n the legal status of any territory, or
any endorsement or acceptance of
I178'20'                                                                           KlLOMETERS                        snch boundari en.
JUNE 1999



