Page  1
                                  LOAN NUMBER 3188 FIJ
                   Project Agreement
                   (Housing Project)
                        between
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                   HOUSING AUTHORITY
                  Dated June 22, 1990
                                   LOAN NUMBER 3188 FIJ
                   PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT dated June 22, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
HOUSING AUTHORITY (the Authority).
     WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date
herewith between Fiji (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen
million two hundred thousand dollars $16,200,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Authority agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Authority, part of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to the Authority on the
terms and conditions set forth in the said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
                      Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
Page  2
                      ARTICLE II
               Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) The Authority declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out Parts D and E of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, and housing
development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank and
the Authority shall otherwise agree, the Authority shall
carry out Parts D and E of the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Authority shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and Parts D and E of the Project.
     Section 2.04. The Authority shall duly perform all
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authority
shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Authority shall, at the
request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with
regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The Authority shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the
Authority of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
      Management and Operations of the Authority
     Section 3.01. The Authority shall carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and housing practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. The Authority shall at all times
operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
Page  3
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
housing practices.
     Section 3.03. The Authority shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Authority shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
     (b)  the Authority shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related
               statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year:
               (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of such audit by the
               said auditors of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning the said
                    records, accounts and financial
                    statements as well as the audit
                    thereof, as the Bank shall from time
                    to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of the Authority's statements of expenditure, the
Authority shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in
               accordance with sound accounting
               practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) ensure that all records (contracts,
               orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least
               one year after the Bank has received the
               audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
               was made; and
          (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to
                    examine such records.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authority shall earn, for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal year ending December 31, 1990, an
annual return on its equity of at least 5%.
Page  4
     (b)  Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Authority shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
the Authority and satisfactory to the Bank, review
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of: (i) the previous fiscal
year; (ii) such fiscal year; and (iii) the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that the Authority
would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) for the Authority's fiscal years covered by such
review, the Authority shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its rates and fees on future
loans) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return on equity shall be
               calculated by dividing the Authority's
               net operating income for the fiscal year
               in question by one half of the sum of the
               Authority's equity (capital and retained
               earnings) at the beginning and at the end
               of that fiscal year.
          (ii) The term "net operating income" means
               total operating revenues less total
               operating expenses.
          (iii)     The term "total operating revenues"
                    means revenues from all sources
                    related to operations.
          (iv) The term "total operating expenses" means
               all expenses related to operations,
               including administration, adequate
               maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu
               of taxes, and provision for depreciation
               of the Authority's depreciable assets in
               accordance with a formula acceptable to
               the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authority shall, by its fiscal year ending
December 31, 1995, attain a ratio of total operating
expenses to average total assets not higher than 3%.
     (b)  Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Authority shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
the Authority and satisfactory to the Bank, ascertain
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that the Authority
would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) for the Authority's fiscal years covered by such
review, the Authority shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet
such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "total operating expenses" means
               all expenses related to operations,
               including administration, adequate
               maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu
Page  5
               of taxes, and provision for depreciation
               of the Authority's depreciable assets in
               accordance with a formula acceptable to
               the Bank.
          (ii) The term "average total assets" means one
               half the sum of the Authority's total
               assets at the beginning and at the end of
               the fiscal year.
                       ARTICLE V
             Effective Date; Termination;
              Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement
becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of the Authority thereunder shall terminate
on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly
notify the Authority thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General
Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
               Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex, facsimile or radio gram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to
the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     For the Authority:
          Housing Authority
          P.O. Box 1263
          G.P.O.
          Suva, Fiji
          Cable address:
               HOUSING
Page  6
               Suva
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Authority
may be taken or executed by its Chief Executive or such
other person or persons as the Authority shall designate
in writing, and the Authority shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia
               HOUSING AUTHORITY
               By /s/ Abdul Yusuf
                              Authorized Representative
                       SCHEDULE
                Implementation Program
1.   The Authority shall appoint, and thereafter
maintain, in full time positions, with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank:
     (a)  a project management advisor;
     (b)  a corporate planner;
     (c)  an electronic data processing manager; and
     (d)  an accounting advisor.
2.   The Authority shall transfer, as soon as completed,
the electricity, and water supply and sewerage network
installed under the Project to the Fiji Electricity
Authority and the Public Works Department, respectively.
3.   The Authority shall furnish by October 31, 1990 and
by October 31 of each year thereafter to the Bank for
review:
     (a)  its program and budget for the following year;
and
     (b)  a projection of its financial performance for
the following five fiscal years, and a report on its
Page  7
financial performance during the previous twelve months.
