                                                   Document of
                                                The World Bank




                                                                                        Report No. 33809-HO




                        SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                  (IDA ­39410)


                                                 ON A CREDIT


            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.54 MILLION (US$58.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                    TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS


                               POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT - I




                                              NOVEMBER 22, 2005




Economic Policy Group
Central America Department (LCC2C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                      2


                             Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                    For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations

Operation ID:       P074758                                Operation Name:      Honduras PRSC-I
Team Leader:        Ulrich Lächler                         TL Unit:             LCSPE
                                                           Report Date:        November 22, 2005


1. Program Data

                Name:     Poverty Reduction Support Credit               L/C Number:      39410/11
  Country/Department:     Honduras/Central America                            Region:     LCR

      Sector/subsector:    Economic Policy/multi-sector
               Theme:      Poverty Reduction


KEY DATES
                                                                   Original              Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:       March 30, 2004                         Effective:  October 22, 2004     Actual
   Appraisal:    April 25 - 30, 2004                       MTR:
   Approval:     June 24, 2004                          Closing:    June 24, 2005        Actual



   Borrower/Implementing Agency:        Republic of Honduras/Ministry of the Presidency
                  Other Partners:



STAFF                       Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:             Pamela Cox                              David De Ferranti
Country Director:           Jane Armitage                          Jane Armitage
Sector Manager:             Jaime Saavedra                         Jaime Saavedra
Team Leader at ICR:         Ulrich Lächler                         Ulrich Lächler
ICR Primary Author:         Ulrich Lächler                         Ulrich Lächler

                                                              3


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome:         S
                                      Sustainability:      S
               Institutional Development Impact:           S
                               Bank Performance:           S
                          Borrower Performance:            S



                                                           QAG (if available)                         ICR
                                 Quality at Entry:                                                     S
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time:


3. Program Description

3.1         The overall program being supported by this operation is the implementation of Honduras's
poverty reduction strategy, as presented in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) dated August
2001 and as updated in the first PRSP Progress Report (PR) dated December 2003. This strategy is
structured around six pillars: (i) accelerating equitable and sustainable growth to levels consistent with
the income poverty reduction targets; (ii) reducing rural poverty; (iii) reducing urban poverty; (iv)
enhancing investment in human capital; (v) strengthening social protection for specific vulnerable
groups; and (vi) ensuring the sustainability of the strategy through governance and institutional
reforms and enhanced environmental sustainability. The strategy also encompasses three cross-cutting
themes ­ gender equity, environmental sustainability and decentralization.

3.2         The Bank Group's country assistance strategy (CAS) for Honduras (discussed by the Board
in June 2003) envisaged PRSC I as the first in a series of quick-disbursing operations which together
would support a medium-term program of policy and institutional reforms aimed at accelerating
implementation of the Government's poverty reduction strategy. In line with the pillars of Honduras'
PRSP and the medium-term priorities identified in the PRSP-PR, the PRSC was meant to support
Government efforts to:
    · accelerate pro-poor growth (pillar 1) via support for reforms aimed at increasing
       competitiveness and maximizing the potential for new investment and employment-creation
       for men and women in both urban and rural areas in the wake of new regional and international
       agreements, in particular, the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA);
    · increase the impact and efficiency of resources devoted to human development and social
       protection (pillar 4), with a focus on deconcentration of responsibilities for service provision
       and increased empowerment of beneficiaries of key services;
    · increase the medium- and long-term sustainability of poverty reduction initiatives through
       policy and institutional reforms geared to strengthening governance and public sector
       management and improving management of the environment (pillar 6), particularly in
       Honduras' extensive protected areas, and
    · systematize consultation processes around the poverty reduction strategy and strengthen
       monitoring and evaluation at national and community levels.

                                                     4



4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

4.1     Prepared in parallel with the IMF's new PRGF arrangement, PRSC-I helped to promote fiscal
consolidation and raise investor confidence in Honduras. The previous PRGF program had gone off-
track in 2001, and when President Maduro took office in January 2002, his administration faced a
deteriorating fiscal environment and slow growth. In this context, the absence of a program with the
IMF and World Bank added to the overall uncertainty about the country's future prospects. After a
two-year period of intense policy dialogue involving the government as well as other donors,
agreement was reached on a new program, resulting in the IMF Board's approval of a new PRGF
arrangement in February 2004 and the IDA Board's approval of PRSC-I a few months later. The
economy exhibited a significant turnaround in 2004, with GDP growth increasing to 4.7 percent (up
from an average of 3 percent in the two preceding years), while the overall public sector deficit
declined from over 5 percent of GDP in 2003 to 3 percent in 2004. Although much of this improved
performance coincided with a general improvement in the external environment, the reinstatement of a
disciplined and reform-minded policy environment supported by the PRGF and PRSC-I also played an
important role in restoring business confidence.

4.2     PRSC-I provided a programmatic framework for implementing key actions contemplated in the
PRSP. As documented in the first PRSP Progress Report, implementation of the PRSP during 2001-
2003 had slowed down after the HIPC Decision Point and most of the intermediate targets and goals
established for this period were not achieved, in part because the inflow of donor resources also
slowed down. The preparation of the PRSC policy matrix helped to focus government attention on
key PRSP actions in a sequenced manner in a multi-period framework, thereby contributing to a more
successful PRSP implementation.

4.3     The derailment of the macroeconomic program at the end of 2001 also had the consequence of
delaying the HIPC Completion point, which Honduras was originally expected to reach in 2002. With
the reinstatement of the program in 2004, the authorities re-established a track record of
macroeconomic discipline and significantly improved PRSP implementation (as recorded in the 2nd
PRSP Progress Report), allowing Honduras to reach the HIPC Completion Point in April 2005.

4.4     The PRSC-I helped to attract donor interest in program-based assistance for Honduras.
Representatives of the German Development Bank (KfW) and of the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA) participated in the PRSC-I appraisal mission, and together with
representatives of the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and of UK's Department
of International Development (DFID) accompanied the preparation of a companion PRSC-Technical
Assistance Credit. Although PRSC-I did not count on any donor co-financing, both KfW and SIDA
have expressed the intention to co-finance PRSC-II.

4.5     While it is still too early to gauge the progress made toward the medium-term outcome targets
established in the PRSC-I policy matrix, the progress made in terms of policy reforms and program
implementation is more evident and has been significant. The specific actions supported by PRSC-I,
as laid out in the attached Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement, were all taken before
Board presentation of PRSC-I and are summarized in the next section. The subsequent section reports
on the status of implementation of specific actions that had been established as triggers for PRSC-II

                                                     5


Specific Actions Supported by PRSC-I and their Current Status

4.6     The underlined portion in each bullet-point below presents the Board presentation conditions
for PRSC-I, which were met by June 2004, while the remaining text provides a status report on the
implementation of follow-up actions contemplated under the program in each of those areas.

· Established and maintained an adequate macroeconomic framework. The achievement of this
    action at the time that PRSC-I was presented to the Board was reflected, among other, in the
    approval of the new PRGF arrangement by the Board of the IMF.                  Since then, the IMF
    successfully concluded a first and second PRGF review in 2004 and early 2005. Furthermore, an
    IMF staff mission that visited Honduras in September 2005 concluded that the government's
    economic program continues to deliver good results, with all quantitative targets for end-June 2005
    having been met. The IMF is scheduled to conclude the third program review in December 2005.

· Satisfactory implementation of the Administration Simplification Law (2002), as evidenced by (i)
    the reduction in the time needed to register a typical business in Tegucigalpa from 129 days in
    2002 to 62 days in the first quarter of 2004, and (ii) the creation of a national administrative
    simplification committee (CNSA), through an executive decree and a resolution adopted by the
    National Competitiveness Commission, to coordinate all initiatives for administrative
    simplification. As of the first quarter of 2005, the time needed to register a business had remained
    unchanged, but the estimated cost of registering a business had declined by 13 percent compared to
    a year earlier, on account of reductions in fees charged by the Mercantile registry and notary
    publics. The time consumed by transactions with the Mercantile registry, which accounted for 25
    of the 62 days needed to register a business, fell to around 15 days in response to changes
    implemented in the second quarter of 2005, which has resulted in a further 16 percent reduction in
    the overall time required to register a business.

· Following consultations with the private sector and other stakeholders and negotiations with the
    concessionaire, the Congress has issued a decree approving an amendment to the airport
    concession contract for the Honduran airports, thereby improving the efficiency, quality and
    regional competitiveness of Honduran airports; and the Executive has issued a decree appointing a
    public-private monitoring committee to follow up on implementation of the amended airport
    concession contract.    In spite of the passage of the decree amending the airport concession
    contract, the quality of the Tegucigalpa airport failed to improve significantly.            A new
    concessionaire was identified in September 2005, with the expectation of delivering better results
    in the near future. There are, however, concerns about the probity of the concession arrangements,
    which need to be reviewed prior to any follow-up operation in order to ensure that they are
    sufficiently transparent and serve the public interest.

· The Borrower has increased access and efficiency in telecommunications services through the
    following actions: (i) HONDUTEL has awarded 27 commercialization contracts and 4
    interconnection contracts for private operators to provide market-priced, national and local call
    services; and (ii) CONATEL has awarded a license to a second cellular telephone operator.
    Follow-up actions in this area call for the approval of a strategic plan for HONDUTEL's transition
    to financial viability in the post-December 2005 period, as HONDUTEL's monopoly on
    international telephony is scheduled by law to expire on December 25, 2005. As of June 2005, the

                                                      6


  Telecommunications Cabinet had approved such a strategic plan, which involved attracting a
  private operator to form a corporation with HONDUTEL. The Government hired financial and
  legal advisors to assist the state modernization commission (CPME) to carry out this plan. A new
  telecom law has been prepared and presented to Congress, but has not yet been passed.

· The government has approved a property law, which establishes a unified property registry and
  strengthens and consolidates the laws and institutional arrangements for land regularization. As of
  mid-2005, the government had partially achieved the follow-up measures contemplated in the
  program. The ministry of governance and justice (SGJ) prepared draft regulations of the property
  law and drafted an operational plan for implementing the law, as well as an operational plan for
  strengthening the National System of Property Administration (SINAP). However, the 2005
  budget allocation assigned to the recently established National Property Institute and its
  institutional capacity to fulfill its role in carrying out the law are inadequate.

· Local Education Development Associations (ADELs) have been legally established (with
  "personería jurídica" or with a statement from SGJ certifying that the procedure to grant legal
  standing is in process) in at least 2,700 rural schools. The authorities also appear to have achieved
  two immediate follow-up targets under the program, which call for legally establishing ADELs in
  at least 50 percent of rural schools and ensuring that 75 percent of all ADELs receive fund
  transfers to manage the PEC and all physical resources. As of May 2005, 45 percent of rural
  schools had legally established ADELs (with the target 50 percent expected to have been reached
  by July 2005) and 98 percent of all ADELs were receiving fund transfers.

· The education ministry (MOE) has published on its website and has submitted to the national
  statistics institute (INE): (i) the educational statistics database from the 2003 school census,
  including the analysis of teacher and student distributions, and (ii) the teacher payroll by
  department as it appears in [the Integrated Human Resource Information System for Education]
  SIARHD. Follow-up actions and milestones in this area call for the adaptation of SIARHD to
  require the registration of the center where each teacher is functionally assigned by the
  departmental director and the inputting of departmental data in at least 9 departments, subject to
  quality checks by the education ministry. As of March 2005, SIARDH was partially functional in
  3 departments and expected to become functional in another 5 departments by May 2005.
  However, the registration of teachers in the department where each teacher is working has still not
  been achieved.

· The health ministry (MOH) (i) has internally audited at least 30 percent of its human resource staff
  registries and has adjusted the registries to show the functional assignment of each staff member
  (where the person really works) (ii) has made budgetary allocations to pay the salaries of this 30
  percent of MOH staff in a manner consistent with the registry and (iii) has issued a resolution
  stating that personnel transfers will not be permitted without the authorization of departmental
  directors and, if applicable, hospital directors. As of July 2005, post audits have been completed
  for 100 percent of MOH staff. However, there is evidence of non-compliance with the resolution
  that prohibits personnel transfers without the authorization of departmental or hospital directors.
  (This slippage needs to be corrected prior to any follow-up operation.)

                                                   7


· The Government has redefined poverty reduction expenditures in the PRSP first annual progress
  report to improve linkage between poverty spending and PRSP targets. Follow-up actions in this
  area contemplate the preparation of programmatic budgets reflecting PRSP goals in at least two
  sectors. As of July 2005, sector-wide approaches (SWAPs) had begun operating for the education
  and health sectors, and the 2005 fiscal budget included the allocations needed for both SWAPs.
  Also, the 2005 fiscal budget was prepared using a multi-annual framework and incorporating the
  PRSP's poverty reducing targets. The education SWAP is operating through a pooled fund under
  the Education-for-All initiative, but currently only includes one active financing partner (Sweden);
  the health SWAP is currently focusing mainly on consolidating all project management functions
  under a single ministry department.       In addition, efforts are ongoing to consolidate external
  assistance in the Agriculture and Water sectors.

· Congress has passed a SIAFI Law that mandates the use of SIAFI in all central government
  agencies and includes provisions for multi-annual budgeting, public sector accounting standards,
  and internal controls.      The implementation of the government-wide integrated financial
  management system (SIAFI) is continuing to advance rapidly. The regulations for the SIAFI law
  have been issued and the law is being implemented. The Ministry of Finance has completed the
  development of an integrated SIAFI with at least 3 functioning modules (budget, accounting and
  treasury), and is now producing quarterly budget execution reports and cash flow statements.
  Also, the Ministry of Finance completed at least 50 percent of the plan to reconcile revenue and
  expenditure accounts and, in coordination with the Central Bank, completed the design and
  established a work plan to implement the "Cuenta Unica". The 2006 budget was prepared using
  the budget compilation modules, and the Treasury, Commitments and Payments, and Cash
  planning modules are scheduled to become publicly accessible on the Web in real time as of
  January 2006.

· Congress has passed the "Ley de Reordenamiento del Sistema Retributivo del Gobierno Central",
  restoring the Executive's control over civil service wage management. Passage of this law is
  having its intended effect of restraining the growth of the public wage bill: the GDP-share of total
  public sector wages has been declining from a peak of 13.5 percent reached in 2002 to 13 percent
  in 2004 and a projected 12.5 percent in 2005.

· Government has presented to Congress legislation, which: i) provides the basis for a professional
  civil service, including merit-based recruitment and promotion; ii) places limits on the number of
  political appointments in the civil service; and iii) creates a supervisory authority to regulate
  human resource management of the central government. The passage of this legislation ("Ley del
  Funcionamiento Publico"), which constitutes a PRSC-II trigger, has not yet occurred; see para. 4.7
  and Table 1.

· The environment ministry (SERNA) has submitted to CONAP a strategic framework and action
  plan for the SINAPH protected areas (PAs), as well as a long-term financing strategy; and the
  Executive has prepared a draft agreement for the creation of a protected areas trust fund
  (fideicomiso) to finance the protection and management expenditures in priority SINAPH PAs
  from government and non-government sources.           The follow-up actions contemplated by the
  program in this area refer to the (i) creation and operation of the protected areas trust fund and (ii)
  to the development of a detailed costing and financing plan for the protection and management of

                                                    8


    priority SINAPH PAs. These follow-up actions also constitute a PRSC-II trigger (see Table 1) and
    have been partially achieved: In particular, the protected areas trust fund has been created and
    given an adequate initial endowment, but a detailed costing and financing plan is still missing.

· The Executive has completed and submitted to IDA the first annual PRSP Progress Report;
    Congress has approved the amended the poverty reduction support law ("Ley del Fondo para la
    Reducción de la Pobreza"); and the Executive has established within SIAFI a satisfactory
    mechanism to track the use of HIPC funds. The follow-up actions contemplated by the program in
    this area refer to (i) the completion of a 2nd Progress Report, with detailed information on PRSP
    spending by program, source and economic classification, and (ii) the presentation of quarterly
    tables describing the evolution of PRSP and total public spending. These actions also constitute a
    PRSC-II trigger (see Table 1) and were achieved as of May 2005.

Status of Triggers for PRSC-II

4.7     The authorities have made considerable advances in carrying out the actions that are needed to
trigger a follow-up credit operation, starting with the maintenance of stable macroeconomic policies,
which have remained broadly on track since PRSC-I was approved. The attached Table 1 lists the
trigger conditions proposed for PRSC-II in the PRSC-I program document, together with the status of
implementation of each trigger based on preliminary information as of October 2005. According to
this table, Honduras appears to have achieved 6 out of the 11 trigger conditions and partly achieved
another two. (Achievement of these triggers still remains to be confirmed during PRSC-II appraisal.)
Three trigger conditions are still pending. These pending actions refer to (i) the passage of a general
ports law and its implementation, (ii) the hiring of consultants and separation of accounts of the
electric public utility (ENEE) into different business units, and (iii) the passage of the new civil service
legislation and accompanying regulations, as well as the appointment of a new civil service
supervisory authority. In addition to the PRSC-II triggers presented in Table 1, there is also the need
to correct any slippages that may have occurred on prior triggers for PRSC-I; see paragraph 7.5

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1     The overall implementation of program actions supported by PRSC-I has been successful in
that all the measures and reforms taken remain in effect. In the case of one PRSC-I trigger, however, a
resolution was passed, but not enforced, which is tantamount to a policy reversal. This refers to the
resolution issued by the Minister of Health prohibiting the transfer of ministry personnel without the
authorization of departmental and hospital directors. This situation may be explained by the change in
sector management that took place after the resolution was issued (the health minister was replaced),
which may have disrupted continuity in sector policies and, thereby, contributed to the non-
enforcement of the resolution.

5.2     The advance in implementation of program actions proposed as triggers for PRSC-2 also has
been broadly satisfactory. IDA's Country Assistance Strategy allowed for the possibility of approving
a second PRSC during 2005 in the event that all the triggers for a high case CAS scenario could be
met very quickly, but the expectations underlying the base-case scenario were that such a follow-up
operation most likely would be approved in 2006. The authorities initially were hoping to reach the
high-case scenario in 2005, but by mid-year it became clear that meeting the high case triggers before
the elections would be politically very difficult. At the same time, the incentive for achieving an early

                                                           9


approval of PRSC-2 became less compelling on account changes in Bank procedures for allocation
IDA assistance. (IDA's shift to a performance-based allocation system rendered the high-case CAS
scenario irrelevant and meant that achieving an early approval of PRSC-II would not have resulted in
additional IDA assistance during the current CAS period.) Furthermore, a better-than-expected fiscal
performance reduced the immediate need for budgetary assistance. These factors worked against an
acceleration of program implementation, with the effect that the pace of implementation of the PRSC-
II trigger conditions remains in line with the original schedule, which projected Board approval of a
follow-up operation after the elections, in 2006.

5.3      Concerning the specific factors affecting the implementation of the pending PRSC-II triggers,
the passage of the ports law and, particularly, of the civil service reform law appear to have been
delayed in Congress mainly on account of electoral considerations in the run-up to the presidential
elections scheduled for November 2005 (and not for lack of sufficient time for broad-based
consultations). The government authorities and some legislators expressed concern that bringing these
laws to a vote before the elections could lend itself to political manipulation and result in unwanted
outcomes and, therefore, are best left to be addressed after the elections. The separation of ENEEs
accounts into different business units, on the other hand, has not been achieved so far because of
government delays in the preparation of consultancy contracts to carry out the separation of accounts,
followed by Congress's rejection of the consultancy contracts once they were prepared and submitted
for legislative approval under a supplemental budget appropriation.                   The government's delay in
moving forward on the hiring of consultants may have been reflecting some second thoughts about the
reform.1

5.4      The approval of a PRSC-TAC to finance technical assistance for implementing PRSP measures
targeted by PRSC-I contributed to the satisfactory implementation of the program by funding timely
technical assistance in critical areas (e.g., implementation of SIAFI, strengthening of the audit
oversight institution), but could not compensate for government inaction (e.g., hiring of consultants to
carry forward the separation of ENEEs business accounts).

5.5      Finally, one very important factor that has contributed across the board to an improved
implementation of PRSP measures is the general improvement in the external environment facing
Honduras during 2004 and 2005. These external improvements include faster economic growth
among Honduras's main trading partners, especially the USA, more favorable coffee prices and the
agreement on CAFTA reached at the end of 2004, which have boosted Honduras's export growth,
increased investor confidence and raised the inflow of remittances. (CAFTA was ratified by the
Honduran Congress in August 2005.) These have raised the level of economic activity in Honduras
and boosted fiscal revenues, rendering it easier for the authorities to achieve their PRSP spending
targets. The only major negative shock has been the hike in oil prices, which has kept the inflation
above the program target and forced the authorities to make some compensatory fiscal adjustments.
This remains a source of concern to the authorities and may require additional adjustments in the
future.




1Separate approval by Congress of the consultancy contracts became necessary because part of the work to be carried out
under the contracts extended beyond the time frame of the current government administration and, thus, would impose a
financial commitment on the incoming administration.

                                                   10


6. Bank and Borrower Performance

6.1     The PRSC-I program document noted that the program remains a risky one in a number
respects relating to the fragile political environment, a vulnerable financial system and institutional
constraints. Various aspects of the PRSC-I operation were designed explicitly to mitigate those risks,
including the approval in parallel of the PRSC-TAC to overcome institutional constraints to program
implementation.    In view of the broadly satisfactory evolution of program implementation, the
decision to move forward with the approval of PRSC-I in spite of these risks appears to have been
warranted.

6.2     The Honduran authorities have been very successful in the implementation of the PRSP
program in spite of a tight fiscal framework, limited institutional capacities and uneven political
support in Congress. This is evident from the improvement in performance noted in the 2nd PRSP
Progress Report, which contrasts strongly with the uneven performance described in the 1st PRSP
Progress Report.

6.3     The preparation of PRSC-I complied with all relevant Bank policies. As a fast-disbursing
policy-based operation covering a broad spectrum of economy-wide policies and institutions, the
environmental and social impact provisions of OP and BP 8.60 apply. Although the PRSC program
was accorded a Category "C" environmental rating, an analysis of environmental and social issues was
prepared, linking existing country project safeguard processes to the PRSC (Annex 7 of PRSC-I
program document). No significant impact on the environment of the reform measures supported by
the PRSC program was foreseen at the time of PRSC-I appraisal, and no major impact has
materialized on account of those measures at this time.

6.4     In compliance with the provisions of OP 8.60 on the fiduciary arrangements for development
policy operations, the preparation of PRSC-I also was accompanied by the preparation of a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and of a draft Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR). The findings of both reports provided sufficient comfort to proceed with the PRSC-2, which,
in turn, has helped support the implementation of the main policy recommendations made in the
CFAA and CPAR to improve public financial management and public procurement in Honduras.
Finally, the preparation of PRSC-I was accompanied by preparation of a Development Policy Review
that provided analytical underpinnings for many of the actions included in the PRSC policy matrix.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

7.1     The limited experience obtained from the first PRSC operation for Honduras tends to support
many of the findings reported in the Bank's recent PRSC stocktaking report (IDA/SecM2005-0238),
which concluded that PRSCs were emerging as effective and flexible lending instruments for helping
to improve the operational framework of the PRSP, strengthening M&E frameworks and medium-term
strategic budgeting, and providing a useful platform to coordinate and harmonize budget support
programs in support of PRSPs. The non-approval of a follow-up PRSC-2 operation in mid-2005,
however, suggests that this instrument is not yet able to deliver on the promise of greater predictability
in the annual flow of resources made available to Honduras.

7.2     The experience with PRSC-I draws attention to the importance of maintaining good
coordination with the IMF in the formulation of policy conditionalities. Bank and IMF staff have
consulted regularly on policy matters relating to PRSP implementation in Honduras (including through

                                                    11


Bank staff participation in IMF missions), reducing the possibilities of providing conflicting policy
advice.

7.3      PRSC-I was prepared mainly with Bank staff that also was involved in the preparation of
investment operations in the various sectors focused on in the PRSC policy matrix. This promoted
consistency in the policy advice given at both the central level and the sector level, and also permitted
a better coordination between the adoption of sector-wide measures and project-level actions.

7.4      The experience with PRSC-I indicates that it is important to be realistic in setting program
targets and, especially, to avoid being overly ambitious in the period before elections. Rather than
aiming for stretch-targets during such periods, it is better to focus on consolidating existing gains and
avoiding policy reversals.

7.5      It would be useful to go beyond the ongoing monitoring and evaluation efforts ­ which so far
have focused on PRSP spending reports and community monitoring ­ and consider developing an
integrated monitoring system could help the Honduran authorities improve the quality of their public
expenditures. SIAFI and the government's web-based PRS information system (SIERP) already
provide an institutional basis for such an initiative, and IDA should evaluate if the country is in a
position to work on developing its M&E system in the near future.

7.6      Finally, the non-enforcement of the ministerial resolution issued by the health ministry in
compliance with a Board presentation condition for PRSC-I would be tantamount to a policy reversal
if left unaddressed. It is important that this matter be corrected, preferably through enforcement of the
resolution in question, prior to the Board presentation of PRSC-II.

                                                          12


                                                      Table 1
                Status of Implementation of PRSC-II Triggers; as of September 2005

      Area                      Trigger Conditions Proposed in PRSC-I                              Implement.
                                                                                                      Status*
    Macro-         1. Maintained an adequate macroeconomic framework.                                Achieved
  framework
 Inv. Climate:     2. Congress has passed a Competition Law which reduces collusive                  Achieved
Administrative         practices and reduces constraints to firms' entry and exit.
 Simplification
                   3. (i) Congress has approved a general ports law ("Ley General de                 Pending
   Transport           Puertos"); (ii) the Executive has issued regulations to the ports
                       law and (iii) is satisfactorily implementing, with private sector
                       participation, the plan to improve efficiency and quality of
                       services at Puerto Cortés.
                   4. ENEE has contracted consultants for the separation of its                      Pending
     Power             accounts into business units (generation, transmission, dispatch
                       and distribution); and ENEE has approved the new structure of
                       separate business units.
 Human Cap.        5. The MOE has implemented the Reglamento and begun the                           Achieved
Development:           reorganization of all departmental offices, including corrective
   Education           mechanisms for non-compliance and staff absences.
Pub. Resource      6. A multi-annual budget was presented to Congress with overall                   Achieved
    Mgmt:              fiscal and poverty reducing expenditure targets.
  Budgeting
     Public        7. The government has created an electronic public information                    Achieved
 Procurement           system for procurement and has begun design on an electronic
                       system for transactions that will be administered by the ONCAE.
                   8. Congress has passed the new [civil service reform] legislation                 Pending
 Civil Service         and the corresponding regulations have been issued; the head of
    Reform             the new civil service supervisory authority has been appointed;
                       and the new law is being satisfactorily implemented.
Environment.       9. The Protected Areas Trust Fund has been created and is                          Partly
Sustainability:        satisfactorily functioning with government financing provided as              Achieved
  Forestry &           per the commitments in the Decree creating the Fund, including
Protected Areas        the initial endowment of $3 million equivalent; the PA Trust
                       Fund has developed the detailed costing and financing plan for
                       the protection and management expenditures in priority SINAPH
                       PAs and has started to fund management activities under this
                       framework.
                   10. Government has: (i) completed and submitted to IDA the 2nd                    Achieved
Monitoring and         PRSP Progress Report, which includes total executed public
  Evaluation           spending and PRSP spending by program, source and economic
                       classification; and (ii) on a quarterly basis, submitted to IDA at
                       least 2 tables showing total public spending and PRSP spending.
                   11. The first phase of the community monitoring program has been                   Partly
                       evaluated and plans for scaling up have been finalized, including             Achieved
                       the design of redress mechanisms.
*The implementation status of PRSC-II triggers recorded here is based on preliminary information and remains to be
confirmed during an eventual PRSC-II appraisal.

                                                        13


                      HONDURAS ­ Poverty Reduction Support Credit (No. 39410)

                                                 SCHEDULE 2


                Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement


I.      Pro-Poor Growth ­ Increasing Investment and Employment


A.      Investment Climate and Competitiveness


1.          The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented the Administration Simplification Law (Ley de
Simplificación Administrativa; Decree No. 255-2002 published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on August
10, 2002), as evidenced by the following:


        (a)   the time to register a typical business in Tegucigalpa has been reduced from 129 days in the year
              2002 to 62 days in the first quarter of the year 2004; and


        (b)   the creation of a national administrative simplification committee (Comité Nacional de
              Simplificación Administrativa), through an executive decree (Decreto Ejecutivo) and a resolution
              adopted by the Borrower's National Competitiveness Commission, to coordinate all initiatives for
              administrative simplification.


2.          Following consultations with the private sector and other stakeholders and negotiations with the
concessionaire, the Congress has issued a decree approving an amendment to the airport concession contract for
the Honduran airports, thereby improving the efficiency, quality and regional competitiveness of Honduran
airports; and


        (a)   the Executive has issued a decree appointing a public-private monitoring committee to follow up
              on implementation of the amended airport concession contract referred to in the preceding
              paragraph.


3.          The Borrower has increased access and efficiency in telecommunications services through the
following actions:


        (a) HONDUTEL (the Borrower's telecommunications company) has awarded 27 commercialization
              contracts and 4 interconnection contracts for private operators to provide market-priced, national
              and local call services; and


        (b) CONATEL (the Borrower's National Commission for Telecommunications) has awarded a license
              to a second cellular telephone operator.


B.          Land Rights and Access


        The Congress has approved a property law, which establishes a unified property registry and
strengthens and consolidates the laws and institutional arrangements for land regularization.

                                                    14


II.     Human Capital and Social Protection


A.      Education


1.      Local education development associations (Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local or
ADELs), which are non-profit associations comprised of the school principal and representatives of
teachers, parents and students of a public school, empowered to administer, on behalf of SE, the
provision of pre-school education and/or lower basic education in such public schools, have been
legally established (with legal standing (personería jurídica) or with a statement from SGJ certifying
that the procedure to grant legal standing is in process) in at least 2,700 rural schools.


2.      The Borrower has published in SE's website and has submitted to its National Institute of
Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadística):


        (a)   the educational statistics database from the 2003 school census, including the analysis of
              teacher and student distributions; and


        (b)      the teacher's payroll by department as it appears in SIARHD.


B.      Health


1.      The SES has internally audited at least 30 percent of its human resource staff registries and has
adjusted such registries to show the functional assignment of each staff member (where the person
really works).


2.      The SES has made budgetary allocations to pay the salaries of the 30 percent of its human
resource staff appearing in the registries that have been internally audited, in a manner consistent with
the registry.


3.      The SES has issued a resolution stating that personnel transfers will not be permitted without
the authorization of departmental directors and, if applicable, hospital directors.


III.    Sustainability ­ Public Sector Management, Governance and Environmental Sustainability


A.      Public Resource Management


1.      The Executive has redefined poverty reduction expenditures in the PRSP first annual progress
report to improve linkage between poverty spending and PRS targets.


2.      The Congress has passed a SIAFI law that mandates the use of SIAFI in all central government
agencies and includes provisions for multi-annual budgeting, public sector accounting standards and
internal controls.

                                                        15


B.     Civil Service Reform


1.     The Congress has passed a law (Ley de Reordenamiento del Sistema Retributivo del Gobierno
Central) restoring the Executive's control over civil service wage management.


2.     The Executive has presented to Congress legislation which:


       (a)   provides the basis for a professional civil service, including merit-based recruitment and promotion;


       (b)   places limits on the number of political appointments in the civil service; and


       (c)   creates a supervisory authority to regulate human resource management of the Borrower's central
             government.


C.     Environmental Sustainability


1.     SERNA has submitted to CONAP a strategic framework and action plan for the SINAPH
Protected Areas, as well as a long-term financing strategy.


2.     The Executive has prepared a draft agreement for the creation of a Protected Areas trust fund
(fideicomiso) to finance the protection and management expenditures in priority SINAPH Protected
Areas by government and non-government sources.


IV.    Monitoring and Evaluation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy


A.     The Executive has completed and submitted to the Association the first annual PRSP progress
report.


B.     The Congress has amended the Poverty Reduction Support Law (Ley del Fondo para la
Reducción de la Pobreza; Congressional Decree No. 70-2002 dated April 2, 2002).


C.     The Executive has established within SIAFI a satisfactory mechanism to track the use of funds
received under the "Heavily Indebted Poor Countries" or "HIPC" initiative launched by the
Association and the International Monetary Fund in 1996.

