Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3941-HO 
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT NUMBER 3941-1-HO 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 18, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3941-HO 
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT NUMBER 3941-1-HO 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 18, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
May 26, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve poverty reduction (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower is eligible and meets the requirements to receive a 
supplemental credit (the First Additional Financing) under the Association’s Fifth 
Dimension Program, which was established by the Association in its fiscal year 1989, 
consisting of supplemental credits financed by reflows to offset interest payments to the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; and 
WHEREAS (D) on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement and the First Additional Financing 
(jointly, the Credit) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 
2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
“CONAP” means 
Consejo Nacional de Áreas Protegidas, 
the 
Borrower’s national board for protected areas; 
(b) 
“Congress” means the legislative branch of government of the Borrower; 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(d) 
“Executive” means the executive branch of government of the Borrower; 
(e) 
“Protected Area” means an area officially designated by the Borrower to 
be under a special management regime for the primary purpose of ensuring its 
biodiversity and ecological integrity; 
(f) 
“PRS” means the Borrower’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as set forth in 
the PRSP; 
(g) 
“PRSP” means the Borrower’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper dated 
April, 2001, published in the website of the Borrower’s Ministry of the Presidency 
(
Secretaría de Estado del Despacho Presidencial
); 
(h) 
“SE” means 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(i) “SEFIN” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(j) “SERNA” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado en los Despachos de Recursos 
Naturales y Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment; 
(k) “SES” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Salud
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(l) “SGJ” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado en los Despachos de Gobernación y 
Justicia
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Governance and Justice; 
(m) “SIAFI” 
means 
Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera
,
the 
Borrower’s integrated financial management system; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(n) 
“SIARH” means 
Sistema Integrado de Administración de Recursos 
Humanos
,
the Borrower’s integrated human resources management system; 
(o) “SIARHD” 
means 
Sistema Integrado de Administración de Recursos 
Humanos Docentes
,
the Borrower’s integrated teacher human resources management 
system; and 
(p) “SINAPH” 
means 
Sistema Nacional de Áreas Protegidas de Honduras
,
the Borrower’s National Protected Areas System. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty million five hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
40,540,000) (the Credit), which includes an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
38,600,000), and a first supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million nine hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,940,000) (the First 
Additional Financing). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be one year from the date of this Agreement 
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date, which later date shall in no case apply to the First 
Additional Financing. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 
15, 2014 and ending June 15, 2044. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on June 15, 2024 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) The 
Borro
wer’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to materially 
reverse any action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of 
the Bank, adversely affect the achievements of the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to materially 
reverse any action listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(d) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date November 16, 2004  is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary of SEFIN is designated as the representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
 
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C. 
 
Honduras 
 
Cable 
address: 
     Facsimile: 
 
HACIENDA 
 
     (504) 
237-
4142 
 
Tegucigalpa 
     (504) 
237-
5033 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS 
 
By /s/ Arturo Alvarado 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Joseph Owen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Honorary Witness on behalf of 
the Republic of Honduras: 
 
/s/ Ricardo Maduro 
President of the Republic of Honduras 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
Page  13
-
12
-
or worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);
 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
Page  14
-
13
-
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
I. Pro-Poor 
Growth 
–
Increasing Investment and Employment
A. 
Investment Climate and Competitiveness
1. 
The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented the Administration Simplification 
Law (
Ley de Simplificación Administrativa
;
Decree No. 255-2002
 
published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on August 10, 2002), as evidenced by the following:  
(a) 
the time to register a typical business in Tegucigalpa has been reduced 
from 129 days in the year 2002 to 62 days in the first quarter of the year 2004; and 
(b) 
the creation of a national administrative simplification committee (
Comité 
Nacional de Simplificación Administrativa)
,
through an executive decree (
Decreto 
Ejecutivo)
 and a resolution adopted by the Borrower’s National Competitiveness 
Commission, to coordinate all initiatives for administrative simplification. 
2. 
(a) 
Following consultations with the private sector and other stakeholders and 
negotiations with the concessionaire, the Congress has issued a decree approving an 
amendment to the airport concession contract for the Honduran airports, thereby improving 
the efficiency, quality and regional competitiveness of Honduran airports; and 
(b) 
the Executive has issued a decree appointing a public-private monitoring 
committee to follow up on implementation of the amended airport concession contract 
referred to in the preceding paragraph. 
3. 
The Borrower has increased access and efficiency in telecommunications services 
through the following actions: 
(a) 
HONDUTEL
 (the Borrower’s telecommunications company) has awarded 
27 commercialization contracts and 4 interconnection contracts for private operators to 
provide market-priced, national and local call services; and  
(b)
 CONATEL 
(the Borrower’s National Commission for 
Telecommunications) has awarded a license to a second cellular telephone operator. 
B. 
Land Rights and Access
Page  16
-
15
-
The Congress has approved a property law, which establishes a unified property 
registry and strengthens and consolidates the laws and institutional arrangements for land 
regularization. 
II. 
Human Capital and Social Protection
A. Education
1. 
Local education development associations (
Asociaciones de Desarrollo 
Educativo Local 
or
ADELs)
,
which are non-profit associations comprised of the 
school principal and representatives of teachers, parents and students of a public 
school, empowered to administer, on behalf of SE, the provision of pre-school 
education and/or lower basic education in such public schools, have been legally 
established (with legal standing (
personería jurídica) 
or
with a statement from 
SGJ certifying that the procedure to grant legal standing
 
is in process) in at least 
2,700 rural schools. 
2. 
The Borrower has published in SE’s website and has submitted to its 
National Institute of Statistics (
Instituto Nacional de Estadística)
:
(a) 
the educational statistics database from the 2003 school census, 
including the analysis of teacher and student distributions; and 
(b) 
the teacher’s payroll by department as it appears in SIARHD. 
B. Health
1. 
The SES has internally audited at least 30 percent of its human resource 
staff registries and has adjusted such registries to show the functional assignment 
of each staff member  (where the person really works). 
2. 
The SES has made budgetary allocations to pay the salaries of the 30 
percent of its human resource staff appearing in the registries that have been 
internally audited, in a manner consistent with the registry. 
3. 
The SES has issued a resolution stating that personnel transfers will not be 
permitted without the authorization of departmental directors and, if applicable, 
hospital directors. 
Page  17
-
16
-
III. Sustainability 
–
Public Sector Management, Governance and 
Environmental Sustainability
A. 
Public Resource Management
1. 
The Executive has redefined poverty reduction expenditures in the PRSP 
first annual progress report to improve linkage between poverty spending and 
PRS targets. 
2. 
The Congress has passed a SIAFI law that mandates the use of SIAFI in 
all central government agencies and includes provisions for multi-annual 
budgeting, public sector accounting standards and internal controls. 
B. 
Civil Service Reform
1. 
The Congress has passed a law (
Ley de Reordenamiento del Sistema 
Retributivo del Gobierno Central)
 restoring the Executive’s control over civil 
service wage management. 
2. 
The Executive has presented to Congress legislation which: 
(a) 
provides the basis for a professional civil service, including merit-based 
recruitment and promotion; 
(b) 
places limits on the number of political appointments in the civil service; 
and 
(c) 
creates a supervisory authority to regulate human resource management of 
the Borrower’s central government. 
C. Environmental 
Sustainability
1. 
SERNA has submitted to CONAP a strategic framework and action plan 
for the SINAPH Protected Areas, as well as a long-term financing strategy. 
2. 
The Executive has prepared a draft agreement for the creation of a 
Protected Areas trust fund (
fideicomiso
)
to finance the protection and 
Page  18
-
17
-
management expenditures in priority SINAPH Protected Areas by government 
and non-government sources. 
 
IV. 
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy
A. 
The Executive has completed and submitted to the Association the first 
annual PRSP progress report. 
B. 
The Congress has amended the Poverty Reduction Support Law (
Ley del 
Fondo para la Reducción de la Pobreza
;
Congressional Decree No. 70-2002 
dated April 2, 2002). 
C. 
The Executive has established within SIAFI a satisfactory mechanism to 
track the use of funds received und
er the “Heavily Indebted Poor Countries” or 
“HIPC” initiative launched by the Association and the International Monetary 
Fund in 1996.
 
