                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00002405



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-H1670)

                                          ON AN

                                    IDA GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.7 MILLION

                         (US$7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

     UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO
                    FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO

                                          FOR A

        BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                  February 25, 2013




Financial and Private Sector Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective January 29, 2013)

                          Currency Unit = Euro
                          Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.34
                          US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.74

                         January 1-December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BETA    Business Environment Technical Assistance Project
BCC     Building Cadastre Construction
BCSs    Business Service Centers
CAD     Current-Account Deficit
CEO     Chief Executive Officers
EU      European Union
EULEX   European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HPD     Housing and Property Directorate
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Financial Corporation
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPAK    Investment Promotion Agency Kosovo
IPPR    Immovable Property Rights Register
ISRs    Implementation Support Reports
KBRA    Kosovo Business Registration Agency
KCA     Kosovo Cadastre Agency
KCLIS   Kosovo Cadastre Land Information System
KFOR    NATO-led peacekeeping force
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MBCs    Municipal Business Centers
MEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPS     Ministry of Public Services
MTI     Ministry of Trade and Industry
MCOs    Municipal Cadastre Offices
NATO    North Atlantic Treaty Organization
PDOs    The Project Development Objectives
PISG    Provisional Institutions of Self Government
PPA     Public Procurement Agency
PSMP    Public Sector Modernization Project
RECAP   Real Estate Real Estate Cadastre and Registration Project
UN      United Nations
UNHCR   United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNMIK   United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
UNCS    United Nations Security Council
VAT     Value Added Tax




                      Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                    Country Director: Ellen Goldstein
                     Sector Manager: Lalit Raina
                Project Team Leader: Greta Minxhozi
                   ICR Team Leader: Greta Minxhozi
                                                       REPUBLIC
                                                          OF
                                                        KOSOVO



               BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................... 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................ 23
  6. Lessons Learned .......................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..................... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ...................................................................................... 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ....................................................................... 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................... 32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................ 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.......................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .............................. 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................ 38
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents............................................................................ 39
  Annex 10. Persons Interviewed for this ICR ............................................................................ 40
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Business Environment
Country:                Kosovo                  Project Name:
                                                                          TA Project
Project ID:             P088045                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H1670
ICR Date:               03/26/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          KOSOVO
Original Total
                        XDR 4.70M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 4.64M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 4.64M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Trade and Industry
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/20/2004    Effectiveness:          10/17/2005          10/17/2005
                                                                                 02/26/2010
Appraisal:             03/21/2005    Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 06/12/2011
Approval:              06/14/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                02/28/2010          05/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      20                  20
General finance sector                                                  5                   5
General industry and trade sector                                      15                  15
Law and justice                                                        10                  10
Sub-national government administration                                 50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                     24                  24
Other financial and private sector development                         25                  25
Personal and property rights                                           25                  25
Regulation and competition policy                                      13                  13
Rural markets                                                          13                  13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katzu
Country Director:          Ellen A. Goldstein                    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Lalit Raina                           Fernando Montes-Negret
Project Team Leader:       Greta Minxhozi                        Irina Astrakhan
ICR Team Leader:           Greta Minxhozi
ICR Primary Author:        Carlos Elbirt




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the business environment by reducing uncertainty of key regulatory
processes, improving delivery of related services, strengthening property rights, and
increasing transparency and accountability of implementing institutions

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
                Reduced regulatory compliance costs of business measured by percentage of
Indicator 1 :
                management time spent on compliance with business regulation
                                          3.8%; 10%
Value
                                          reduction in YR2;
quantitative or 5%                                            3.5%           3.57%
                                          15% reduction in
Qualitative)
                                          YR4)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  02/28/2010          12/31/2011     12/31/2012
Comments
                Almost 100% achievement (as demonstrated by the results of the mini survey
(incl. %
                conducted in November-December 2012)
achievement)
                Number of administrative procedures for licenses and permits simplified and
Indicator 2 :
                streamlined
                                          N/A (this is a new
Value
                                          indicator added in
quantitative or 0                                             15             8
                                          the June 2011
Qualitative)
                                          restructuring)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  02/28/2010          12/31/2011     12/31/2012
Comments        53% achievement (see Section 2.2.) The government decided to take the rest of
(incl. %        the measures after completing a strategy for Licensing/permits reform for which
achievement) there was no time under the project
Indicator 3 : Increased number of registered businesses
Value
quantitative or 45,000                    N/A                 100,000        113,090
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  02/28/2010          12/31/2011     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        113% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of inspection bodies reduced
Value                                     N/A (this is a new
quantitative or 36                        indicator added in 22              36
Qualitative)                              the June 2011


                                               iii
                                           restructuring)
Date achieved 06/30/2011                   02/28/2010           12/31/2011       12/31/2012
Comments
                Not achieved (See Section 2.2.).The inspection reform started late in the project
(incl. %
                life. Results will be evident and measurable in the coming year(s).
achievement)
                Increased access to finance measured by number of registered mortgages, per
Indicator 5 :
                year
Value                                                                            2009: 5395;
quantitative or 2,510                       N/A                 6,000            2010: 5364;
Qualitative)                                                                     2011: 3543
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    02/28/2010          06/12/2011       12/31/2011
Comments        90% achievement in 2009; 89% achievement in 2010; 59% achievement in
(incl. %        2011.The global financial crisis on real estate activities affected negatively the
achievement) lending policy of the banks resulting in credit contraction

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                          Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                         Revised
                                            approval                      Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                           documents)                     Target Years
                Number of Municipal Business Centers (MBCs) applying new business
Indicator 1 :
                standards
Value
(quantitative   0                            20                25              25
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     02/28/2010        12/31/2011      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement (expected 28 in May 2013)
achievement)
                Number of apartments measured and recorded, with files completed and ready
Indicator 2 :
                for registration in the building cadastre
Value
(quantitative   0                            638,000           20,000          39,913
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     02/28/2010        12/31/2011      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        200% achievement
achievement)
                Reduction of time to register property transactions in the Immovable Property
Indicator 3 : Rights Registry (IPPR) in Prishtina and Ferizaj Municipal Cadastre Offices
                (MCOs)
Value                                                                          Ferizaj 10 days (to
                                                               10 days (to
(quantitative   40 days (to register)        N/A                               register); Prishtina
                                                               register)
or Qualitative)                                                                15 days (to register)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     02/28/2010        12/31/2011      12/31/2012
Comments        Almost 100% (reported time includes the mandatory 5 day public announcement
(incl. %        which means that that the "de facto" registration time is shorter).



                                                 iv
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of transactions registered in the IPRR, per year
Value
(quantitative     N/A                       50,000                50,000         68,142
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                02/28/2010            12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          136% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of Municipal Cadastre Offices (MCOs) reengineered
Value
(quantitative     0                         N/A                   2              3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                02/28/2010            12/31/2011     12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          150% achievement
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     03/13/2006           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/25/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.56
  3     10/19/2007       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               0.66
  4     04/20/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               1.02
  5     06/23/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               2.71
  6     02/06/2010       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               3.45
  7     01/09/2011       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               4.21
  8     10/05/2011       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               5.83
  9     06/10/2012       Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      6.87


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Closing Date extended to ensure
                                                     achievement of the PDOs and
 02/26/2010       N       MS    MS            3.59
                                                     full utilization of the project
                                                     proceeds.
                                                     Closing Date extended to ensure
 06/12/2011       N       MS    MS            5.40
                                                     achievement of the PDOs and


                                                   v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     full utilization of the project
                                                     proceeds.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Business Environment Technical Assistance (BETA) Project was a Technical Assistance
Development Grant for SDR 4.7 million, equivalent to US$7 million in 2005. The Grant
agreement was signed between the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
(UNMIK) and International Development Association (IDA) since it was provided before the
declaration of Independence.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The 1999 United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 1244 authorized the establishment
of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) as the interim
administration. Such administration was to be replaced over time with local institutions. The
presence of a large NATO-led international peace-keeping force has ensured a reasonable degree
of stability since then. A Constitutional Framework established the legal framework for the
transfer of responsibilities to the Provisional Institutions of Self Government (PISG) comprised of
a President, a 120-member Assembly, and an executive branch headed by a Prime Minister. The
handover had gradually taken place since 2001. UNMIK and the PISG had been working on a
specific series of reforms aimed at strengthening democratic institutions, protecting minority
rights, and establishing the basis for a market economy.

The country’s status changed in 2008. It is now an independent country recognized by 99 UN
member countries (as of March 2013), as well as the World Bank, International Monetary Fund
(IMF) and European bank for reconstruction and development (EBRD) Full international
recognition has yet to be achieved. In June 2009, Kosovo became a full member of the World
Bank and IMF. But 5 of the 27 European Union (EU) member states are withholding recognition
and United Nations (UN) membership appears remote because only three permanent members of
the UN Security Council have recognized Kosovo’s independence. As recently as November
2011, violent clashes erupted in Northern Kosovo when the Government attempted to ban imports
from Serbia to reciprocate a Serbian ban on imports from Kosovo. The NATO-led peacekeeping
force (KFOR) has continued to maintain a strong contingent in Kosovo. In addition, the European
Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX Kosovo) has some 2,500 international and
national employees in Kosovo and performs some of the police, judicial, and customs functions,
including in areas where ethnic-Serbian population predominates. Political power has been
steadily transferred from international institutions to Kosovo and the Government of Kosovo is
preparing for an end to the period of "supervised independence" in December 2012. However,
both the EU's rule-of-law mission EULEX, and the NATO-led peace-keeping force KFOR are
expected to continue to play important --if gradually declining-- roles in the foreseeable future.
The multi-ethnic Kosovo Police Service has a vital role in maintaining security and stability in
the country.

Since 1999, Kosovo adopted liberal market policies. The former trade regime was replaced by a
simple regime with no quantitative barriers and simplified low tariffs. The use of foreign
exchange was legalized for all domestic transactions, initially establishing the Deutsche Mark and
later the Euro as the local currency. Having no monetary tools and limited fiscal room for
maneuvering, prospects for economic growth have depended upon two key factors: (i) a
resolution of Kosovo’s political status and the maintenance of peace and security in the region
(which was only partially resolved so far); and (ii) implementation of a policy program that
promotes private sector-led growth.
Uncertainties associated with the enterprise regulatory regime, and a rudimentary property rights
system were identified as major impediments to businesses in the 2003 Business Environment
Survey. These uncertainties, made worse by the 1999 conflict, were associated, to a large degree,
with the power of municipalities in establishing the overall regulatory regime which was
perceived as complex and non-transparent. The power of municipalities included promulgation
and enforcement of enterprise regulations, such as licensing, permits and inspections. This
arrangement was based on Regulation 2000/45 (“On Self-Government of Municipalities?) which
gave municipalities broad powers to regulate economic activity within their jurisdictions. As a
result of this system, there were essentially 30 different regulatory regimes throughout Kosovo
(equal to the number of its municipalities). In many cases, regulations were vague, poorly
enforced, with no clearly defined service delivery standards for enforcement bodies, and involved
multiple offices or directorates within a given municipality. Central authorities handled other
regulatory functions for the enterprise sector, such as industry-specific licensing, business
registration and tax registration, with little coordination at the municipal level. Further,
enforcement of regulations, such as licensing, construction permits, and health and trade
inspections, has been erratic.

Real estate transactions were constrained by unreliable records. The use of collaterals to access
credit or the purchasing of new properties, were often reduced by the inability to identify true
owners or use-right holders increasing the cost of financing, already identified as major constraint
to businesses. The establishment, registration and enforcement of immovable property rights were
still at a rudimentary stage, worsened as a result of the 1999 conflict and the loss of records.
UNMIK established the Kosovo Cadastre Agency (KCA) in 2000 to set policy and provide
oversight to the Municipal Cadastre Offices (MCOs) which were responsible for establishing,
updating, and maintaining immovable property records. However, the MCOs had weak capability
to effectively administer the property registries, and to issue property titles. A Program jointly
financed by Norway, Sweden and Switzerland (2000-2003) had funded the beginning of
immovable property registration.

The authorities needed support to meet the targets set out in the "Standards for Kosovo"
document, published in Pristina on December 10, 2003 and subsequently endorsed by the UN
Security Council. Based on that, the Kosovo Standards Implementation Plan was prepared with a
set of priority actions to achieve the standards for energizing the Kosovo economy. First; there
was a need to implement and enforce the new laws and regulations that were put in place in the
few years preceding the project’s design. Second, there was a need for considerable capacity
building to deliver services from the institutions with responsibilities related to economic
development-including the MTI, MPS, KCA, the Business Registry, and the Investment
Promotion Agency.
It was envisaged that the Bank involvement in this project would bring regional experience on
property rights and business environment. Bank activities in Kosovo already included a Private
Sector Development Technical Assistance project (satisfactorily completed) and the 2004
Business Environment Assessment. The Bank had supported a number of initiatives/projects
aimed at simplifying the business registration process. The Bank had a wide experience with
immovable property rights in several countries in the region (Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia,
Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, and Slovenia, among others).
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The original PDO was to improve the business environment by reducing uncertainty of key
regulatory processes, improving delivery of related services, strengthening property rights, and
increasing transparency and accountability of implementing institutions.

These objectives were to be achieved by strengthening the capacity of institutions charged with
administering regulatory services for businesses and property transactions. Key indicators
(identified in the text of the) PAD were the following1:

Business Services Integration: (i) reduced regulatory compliance costs for businesses; (ii) number
of municipalities adopting harmonized licensing framework; (iii) number of Business Service
Centers applying new service standards; (iv) increased number of registered businesses in
municipalities; and (v) improved business services delivery at municipal and central levels.

Immovable Property Rights Enhancement: (i) timely service delivery standards introduced and
monitored; (ii) number and types o f transactions registered in the systems and the annual growth
of the number of transactions; (iii) number of updates-subdivisions and consolidations-registered
in the cadastre systems checked against a special sample surveys to discover non-registered
subdivisions; and (iv) number of buildings inventoried into the building cadastre and ongoing
updates.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDOs remained unchanged throughout the life of the project. The results monitoring
framework was revised at the time of project extension with approval of Bank management in
June 2011. Changes were introduced into the results framework to “better reflect the overall
dynamics of the business environment in Kosovo particularly in the areas supported by the
project?. The changes consisted of updating target dates to take into consideration the new
closing date, adding new PDO indicators deemed important to better measure the project’s results
and dropping some others which were conceptually repeated in existing ones2. The changes did
not affect the project outcomes. The following Key Indicators were part of the result framework
revised in the restructuring of June 2011:

Business Services Integration: (i) Reduced regulatory compliance costs of business measured by
percentage of management time spent on compliance with business regulation; (ii) Number of
administrative procedures for licenses and permits simplified and streamlined: (iii) Increased
number of registered businesses; (iv) Number of inspection bodies reduced; and (v) Number of
Municipal Business Centers (MBCs) applying new business standards.


1
   These indicators are slightly different that the indicators included in the respective Results Framework and Monitoring (Annex 3 of
the PAD) (see Section 2.3).
2
  The text from the Restructuring Paper provides the following explanation: “Some changes have been introduced to the results
framework to reflect the overall dynamics of the business environment in Kosovo and particularly in the areas supported by the project
since the project’s approval. These changes consist of: (i) updating target dates to take into consideration the new closing date; (ii)
adding two new PDO indicators that are important to better measure the project’s results (they are good proxies for measuring the
improvement in business environment: “Number of administrative procedures for licenses and permits simplified and streamlined?
and “Number of inspection bodies reduced?); and (iii) dropping two PDO Indicators ; Number of municipalities adopting harmonized
licensing framework and Improved business services delivery at municipal and central levels and one intermediate results indicator
(“Number of municipalities adopting harmonizing licensing framework?). They are better measured by the new PDO Indicators and
others left in the result framework.?
Immovable Property Rights Enhancement: (i) Increased access to finance measured by number of
registered mortgages, per year; (ii) Number of apartments measured and recorded, with files
completed and ready for registration registered in the building cadaster; (iii) Reduction of time to
register property transactions in the IPPR in Prishtina and Ferizaj MCOs; (iv) Number of
transactions registered in the IPRR, per year Number of MCOs reengineered; and (v) Number of
MCOs reengineered

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Existing and prospective businesses in Kosovo: the first group of beneficiaries was the existing
and prospective businesses as the project intended to simplify regulations, make licensing and
permits easier and faster to obtain, and make the registration process (for new businesses or for
changes undertaken in existing ones) also faster and simpler. Simplifying business registration
would reduce informality with improved impact on taxation.

Existing and prospective property owners: the second group of beneficiaries was the existing and
prospective property owners as the project intended to enhance security in property rights thereby
facilitating real estate transactions. Securing property rights would allow financial institutions to
expand their businesses by providing mortgages.

Central Government, Municipalities and Tax Administration: the third group of beneficiaries was
the government, national and municipalities, and the Tax Administration which would gain from
the harmonization of business regulations across municipalities and between municipalities and
central government agencies. Registrations should increase. Tax collection should be facilitated
by the reduction in informality and by the coordination between business and tax registrations.
Municipalities would benefit from sharing the cadastre because their actions in relation to “illegal
building? would be facilitated. Illegal buildings are widespread in Kosovo.

1.5 Original Components

Business Services Integration (US$2.63 million). In order to reduce regulatory uncertainty,
harmonize business regulations and the licensing framework at the central and municipal level,
reduce existing administrative barriers to start and/or operate business, improve the transparency
and accountability of regulatory functions administered by municipalities, facilitate investment
and improve public access throughout Kosovo to regulatory information, the purpose of this
component was to support : (i) establishment of Business Service Centers (BSCs) that integrated
implementation of enterprise regulations and services in up to 30 municipalities; (ii) rehabilitation
of BSC premises; (iii) upgrading of the Kosovo business registration system; and (iv) assistance
and capacity building of the Office of Investment Promotion.

Immovable Property Rights Enhancement (US$3.36 million). In order to secure immovable
property rights, this component was to provide: (i) technical assistance to allow a rapid start-up of
subproject tasks and to improve the policy and legal framework; (ii) support for the improvement
of the new immoveable property rights registration system in up to 30 municipalities; (iii)
registration of mortgages in the new system; (iv) cadastre reconstruction and renewal, and
updating in at least six municipalities; and (v) implementation of a national cadastre of buildings
to facilitate their ownership, use and registration.

Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$0.58 million). In order to ensure proper
implementation, the purpose of this component was to support: (i) the design and establishment
of project monitoring and evaluation system; (ii) investment climate surveys (two investment
climate surveys using the 2002 mini-ICA methodology) were envisaged during the lifetime of the
project); (iii) training for procurement, disbursement and financial management; (iv) auditing of
project accounts; and (v) project coordination. Specifically, the component aimed to strengthen
the capacity of the Public Procurement Agency and the Grant Unit of the Ministry of Economy
and Finance (MEF). It also was to finance a small Project Secretariat with two to three local
experts, some of whom were individuals seconded from local agencies. The major role of the
Secretariat was to provide support to the Steering Committee in leading the broad policy reform
agenda related to business environment. It was also to coordinate the implementation of activities
under the project.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The closing date was extended twice, 27 months in total, first from February 28, 2010 to June 30,
2011 to enable completion of the envisioned activities, achievement of the development
objectives, full utilization of the grant proceeds, and better measuring and monitoring of the
project’s results and then to May 31, 2012 to complete the final ongoing activities mainly under
the business environment component.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

This project was designed and implemented during a very sensitive period that included the
United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, the Unilateral Declaration of
Independence, the holding of elections under sensitive conditions and some sporadic conflicts in
the area populated with Serbian minority. The project implementation was affected by these
factors which resulted in a relative slow start and delayed effectiveness. Along with the
improvement of the situation, and to the credit of Government and Bank Teams, implementation
accelerated, particularly in the last year of the project.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

This was a technical assistance project scheduled to be implemented, originally, in the 2005-09
period (that is four years). After two subsequent extensions, the project closed in May 31, 2012.

Soundness of the background analysis: the background analysis included in the project document
provided adequate evidence to justify the rationale for the project and the importance of the
project objectives. The Bank knowledge of the region and the familiarity with the situation in
Kosovo after the 1999 conflict assisted in identifying and designing this project. In particular, a
2003 Business Survey was crucial in identifying key issues affecting the business environment.
From sound analyses of the structure and dynamics in Kosovo private sector it was clear that
tackling the issue of real estate property rights and improving business environment activities was
crucial for stimulating private sector development and economic growth in Kosovo.

Assessment of Project Design: taking into account the complex political reality of Kosovo, the
project design incorporated the right features that were relevant and addressed the key client
concerns at the time. It also reflected lessons learned by international best practices and positive
and negative experiences in the region. Linkages between project and component objectives were
clear and self-explanatory and outputs were appropriately linked to the objectives (see Table 1 in
Annex 2). First, designing the cadastre component was probably less complicated than designing
the business component. The choice of a centralized system proved to be appropriate, compared
to the failed experiences with dual or triple systems in other countries. This was also proven by a
successful implementation and strong ownership of this component by the KCA, despite the
initial difficulties. Second, the business component was designed in a more decentralized fashion
which was probably the only realistic way to proceed in view of the prevailing political realities.
There were considerable difficulties in coordination between institutions (both in central and local
government) during the first years of the project given the weak government structures and
frequent political changes. However, during the last two years of project implementation, the new
government demonstrated strong commitment, ownership, initiative and clear vision of the
needed reforms, which contributed to the speed of disbursement and achievement of the
objectives. In fact the success of the project, and the subsequent upgrading of Kosovo in 2013 DB
ranking generated more demand from the government on the Bank’s support for the business
environment reforms. 3 Gains are associated to the very recent unification of procedures for
business registrations which is done quickly now in the MBCs. Working permits are not needed
anymore, a notable simplification that favors job creation and tend to reduce informality.
Managers spend less time in obtaining investment information by using the services of the MBCs.
On the other hand, further reform actions and efforts from central and local government are
required to complete the conversion of the MBCs in one stop shops as was the initial concept in
project’s design.

Implementation design was consistent with the institutional set up of Kosovo. Several central and
local government agencies 4 were involved in the project implementation. This structure is
considered to be relevant considering the broad reform agenda envisaged under the project
components and also emphasized by the challenges of Kosovo – having to build from scratch a
government of its own. Considering the vulnerabilities highlighted in the PAD 5 , there was
extensive training and consultancy provided to the staff and management of the agencies to
increase their technical capacities and this contributed to improving the functioning and
coordination. However this could not completely avoid delays in project implementation and also
the need for substantial “hands on? supervision by the Bank teams.

The design of the third component, project implementation, was probably overambitious in
including a number of objectives (build capacity of related project institutions on procurement,
financial management and monitoring and evaluation of results) given the planned amount of
financing. At least one activity included in this component was not implemented: investment
climate surveys. A mini survey was carried out to get some responses from about 300 surveyed
businesses on a number of indicators, including the amount of time spent by management in
compliance with business regulation.




3
    .see section 2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (second bullet point)
4
  MTI, KBRA,IPAK, association of municipalities, KCA, PPA, Grant Unit at MEF, Project Steering
Committee and Project Secretariat
5
  Lack of institutional capacity, evolving structure of government, political uncertainties
Adequacy of Government’s Commitment: while commitments were formally adequate, project
implementation suffered, at least during the beginning of the project, from the fragmented
political structures of Kosovo and frequent changes of governments and the heads of institutions.
This project in its design incorporated as implementing agencies several institutional structures
signaling a broad participation by the Government and the UN Mission in the country overseen
by a Steering Committee comprised of representatives of key stakeholders 6 The Steering
Committee tasks allowed for a broad and deep involvement of the above agencies in project
implementation regarding strategic guidance, development and approval of annual plans, project
budget, procurement plan, coordination and consensus building among key project stakeholders
on key policy issues related to project implementation, monitoring of the overall progress made
by the Government regarding the business environment. The implementation of the project
demonstrated that the Steering Committee played a useful role, and the Bank team encouraged
that throughout project’s life.

Assessment of Risks: risks were high and adequately assessed in the PAD and relevant mitigation
measures were proposed. To a large degree, the technical assistance nature of this project was
directed precisely at ameliorating some of these risks. First, the project envisioned technical
assistance to implementing agencies, extensive training of specialists, financing of consultant
services in key areas, close supervision, and a strong field presence. Second, the project would
deal closely with donors active in the field and the original scope of the project was reduced
(from the concept stage) in order to reduce risks. Nevertheless, areas covered in the business
integration component remained relatively broad. Third, to mitigate the risk posed by the
evolving nature of the provisional government, the project was supposed to work closely with all
major stakeholders, including the Association of Municipalities of Kosovo. In this regard, a clear
definition of responsibilities under the project was to be emphasized. Fourth, land possession and
ownership was a controversial matter from 1989-1999 when different rules applied depending on
a buyer’s nationality. Some groups were unable to return to their homes. In this matter, it was
stated that the project would continue to undertake consultations and monitor social indicators
during implementation. Fifth, political and constitutional uncertainties surrounding the future of
Kosovo proved to be considerable and may have had implications on the project implementation.
To a large degree, most of the risks diminished overtime as the result of the implementation of the
proposed measures as well as of the improvement of political situation in the country and overall
did not affect the project’s outcome.

2.2 Implementation

Key implementation agencies on the Government side were the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI), the main counterpart for the Business Services Integration component, the Kosovo
Cadastre Agency (KCA) and key Municipalities.

During the final, and decisive, stage the project implementation and outcomes benefited from the
following factors: (i) more committed partners, particularly the MTI, (ii) a more settled
institutional and political framework (with the declaration of Independence, the adoption of the
new Constitution and the establishment of the new government), (iii) more continuity in
managerial positions (including KCA) and/or replacement of “old style? managers with new and
energetic ones (such as the case of KBRA, ) within government implementing agencies, and (iv)


6
 This included the MTI, the Ministry of Public Services (MPS), Ministry of Local Government, UNMIK
Pillar IV, UNMIK Pillar 11, the Association of Municipalities of Kosovo, and the Office of the Prime
Minister (Director of Legal Office).
on the Bank’s side, more continuity and intensity of “hands-on? supervision by Bank staff
responsible for this operation.

The last extension was taken full advantage of and the project implementation accelerated to
reach the results commented in the relevant sections. About 40 % of the project was disbursed
during the last 14 months of the project.

The progress observed in the last year of the project followed a more difficult and long period of
slow progress. A number of significant political changes in Kosovo, including general elections,
declaration of independence, adoption of the new Constitution, and deployment of new
international presence led to the change of political leadership and state administration of Kosovo.
The political developments of such magnitude caused a number of interruptions and delays in the
project implementation. Frequent changes in management of the main counterpart ministries and
institutions did not allow implementation to proceed, as expected. For example, in the course of a
year there were four KCA Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) (two officially appointed and two
acting) and four Permanent Secretaries of the MTI. Staff changes were accompanied by conflicts
and allegations of misconduct. A KCA CEO was suspended during that period. The Bank team
reported the situation to the INT and conducted procurement reviews and unscheduled missions.
Subsequently, the Bank did not receive any information confirming or disregarding the
allegations of misconduct of the KCA CEO.

The Mid-Term Review contributed to improving implementation by assessing very frankly key
difficulties and detailing steps ahead. In particular, the review stressed the complications
stemming from the lack of comprehensive national regulations and national authority over
business regulations and property rights at the time of the project inception, the frequent changes
of the senior management in the implementing agencies and the lack of continuity and
consistency of the reform agenda. The Mid-Term Review concluded that ownership and capacity
of the implementing agencies had nevertheless improved and anticipated that the project
objectives could be achieved.

Since project implementation relied on the national procurement and financial management
systems, insufficient local capacity was a major weakness which taxed the Bank's supervision
team and contributed to delaying implementation but, nevertheless, served the purpose of
institutional building.

Building ownership of the central institutions and strengthening the role of the government in
donor coordination has been an important challenge that was faced by the project. More often
than not, the activities planned under the project were subject to sudden changes and shifting
priorities arising from urgent needs or bilateral talks between the MTI and relevant donors, thus
affecting negatively planning and implementation of project activities. There was a significant
improvement in this aspect towards the end of the project but it did, however, impact negatively
the completion of all the activities as planned. Few initially planned activities were not carried out
for lack of project funds associated with shifting priorities, as presented by beneficiary
institutions (MTI, KBRA, IPAK), as well as with movements in exchange rates. Activities
dropped or partially implemented7, while important, seem less crucial for attaining the project
outcomes


7
  Activities, such as Design and Establishment of Project M&E system, Investment Climate Enterprise Surveys were
not conducted due to other priorities presented by Government such as total rehabilitation of KBRA premises at MTI
(new activity), enabling a better service to businesses. At the end of the project a mini enterprise survey was completed.
The project did not meet one of its outcome indicators; reduction of the number of inspection
bodies. However, significant progress was made during the last two years of the project in
drawing an inventory of existing inspections which revealed that there was significant need to
improve the legal framework for inspections8.as well as reduce the number of inspection bodies at
the central level9. Based on these findings, the team agreed with the Government to finance under
the project a Strategy for inspections reform and an Action Plan to implement the Strategy. These
documents were completed and presented to the government for comments in the last month
before the project’s closure. The government organized a workshop for consultations with the
stakeholders and expressed its’ commitment to continue with the inspection reform. However,
there was no time within the project to fully achieve this target.

Another outcome indicator not completely achieved was the number of administrative procedures
for licenses and permits simplified and streamlined (achieved 8 from the target 15). The
Licensing review was completed in February 2011. The review identified over 300 various
permits, licenses, approvals, etc. on national level, 6 issued by 30 or more different institutions,
and regulated by over 200 regulations. The government (IPAK) reviewed the report and a number
of measures were undertaken that resulted in the above mentioned reduction. The Government
later on shared with the World Bank/IFC teams their intentions to draft a strategy for
Licensing/permits reform, and to set the stage for future Government intervention and potential
donor involvement. Given the time that had elapsed and other priorities that emerged in the
meantime (referred to above), it became impossible to complete these assignments within the
lifetime of the project.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: results indicators were generally adequate albeit producing some indicators
required experience and strong capacity by existing implementing agencies which posed a real
challenge given the newness of the country (i.e. “Reduced regulatory compliance costs for
businesses? or “Percentage of Customer Satisfaction?). As a result, information on some
indicators could not be produced. The Results Indicators framework was refined and improved
during the life of the project to adapt to the dynamic of the project and data availability,
particularly in the last restructuring/extension in 201110. Also, the restructuring clearly established
frequency of data collection, baselines and targets, identified sources of data and responsible
party for the collection. That was not the case in the PAD: the frequency of reporting, the data
collection instruments and the responsibility for the collection was identified only for the business
integration component but not explicitly for the enhancement property rights component (in
practice, the Secretariat relied on information provided by the Kosovo Cadastre Agency). No
indicators were included to specifically measure the transparency and accountability of the




8
     Kosovo had at the time 87 laws and 38 by-laws affecting business inspections

9
     36 inspection bodies at the central level, which were in charge of 33 different types of inspections

10
  In the restructured result framework, there is one indicator that fits better as PDO Indicator rather than Intermediate
Results Indicator: “Reduction of time to register property transactions in the IPPR in Prishtina and Ferizaj Municipal
Cadastre Offices (MCOs)?.
implementing agencies. However, a general assessment of these project objectives was possible
based on the information provided in the relevant documentation.

M&E Implementation and Utilization: collection of data was not consistent throughout the life of
the project and their quality moderately satisfactory. In the final stage of the project, more data
were collected and their quality improved markedly. Only information for one indicator was not
available, as originally envisaged: “Time spent by managers to comply with regulations? - which
depended on investment climate surveys that were not carried out. The Bank Team compensated
for this absence by organizing a mini-survey. The Bank Team paid strong attention to the
implementation process, a key factor in this type of project particularly for a new country. This
included careful monitoring and emphasized the 6-month implementation plans.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

There were no safeguard policies applicable according to the PAD and the restructuring paper.
The project did not envisage any triggering in safeguard policies. No significant social or
environmental issues arose. However, attention was paid to the issue of property claims presented
to the Housing and Property Directorate (HPD) by persons that lost rights to apartments and
residences prior to 1999, participants in informal transactions that took place during 1989-1999
and owners unable to take possession. This was monitored as part of the work with the
immovable property rights component and coordinated with (UNHCR) and HPD.

No fiduciary issues arose during project implementation. The project implementation was in
compliance with the Bank fiduciary policies and procedures.

2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
There are two key elements that will determine the sustainability and enhancement of BETA
achievements. First, the institutional and political situation of Kosovo needs to be gradually
resolved. While, a complete resolution is still elusive, important progress has been achieved in
this area. Second, the institutional capacity of the relevant institutions needs to be strengthened
and consolidated. By relevant institutions we meant the MTI, Association of Municipalities,
Business Registry, Office of Investment Promotion, and KCA. The project specifically supported
these institutions. However, they will require additional support to reach a self-sustained level.

Even achieved objectives could be threatened if no additional support is provided. In this regard,
the Government, Bank and some donors are acting in a coordinated fashion:

       First, the Real Estate Real Estate Cadastre and Registration Project (RECAP) will
        continue and deepen the work of BETA by further assisting KCA. There have been close
        coordination between BETA and RECAP, including in monitoring and evaluation.
       Second, the Bank will be unable to provide further support in the area of business
        services. Consequently, a very active dialogue with other donors is taking place to
        identify additional financing from other sources so as to continue the work on business
        registration and harmonization of regulations. It is acknowledged that the need to deepen
        the work on regulatory harmonization is a crucial and challenging task. In this regard,
        International Financial Corporation (IFC) is considering some technical support/advise.
       Third, sustainability also depends on the ongoing civil service reform creating the
        necessary incentives for capable staff to work in high positions. Activities in the area
        financed by the project were heavily dependent on the technical staff financed by the
        project, in most cases local staff. This staff could be part of the permanent structure of the
        respective agency if there were adequate compensation/incentives. In this regard, the
        Bank is financing a Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP) which aims at
        introducing a more efficient pay and grading structure in the core civil service
        (professional and administrative positions in central government bodies and municipal
        administrations). In the short term, this would address the current inconsistencies and
        inequities in the remuneration of civil servants working for different civil service
        organizations and establish a transparent career structure. In conjunction with increased
        capacity for merit-based human resource management, these changes may - in the
        medium term - be expected to increase the attractiveness of the civil service as an
        employer among qualified candidates. Likewise improved career prospects should
        encourage civil servants to invest in upgrading their professional skills and job
        performance. The PSMP will assist the long term sustainability of the project outcomes.
        But the PSMP is unlikely to have a substantial impact in the short term.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This project is of high relevance. The objectives and design of BETA continue to be very relevant
to support of the goals of the government and the international community. Property rights and
business environment are high priority development issues. The objectives and design of BETA
were consistent with the Interim Strategy Note 2010-11 and the proposed Country Partnership
Strategy 2012-15 under discussion, even though there is no (Bank) financing available for
business environment component in the latter since the requirements posed by the energy sector
are enormous and leave no room for (Bank) financing. However, as informed in other parts of this
report, there is an ongoing financing to continue/deepen property rights enhancement. IFC is
providing additional assistance regarding regulation harmonization and efforts are ongoing to
seek out additional financing from other donors for further improvement of business environment.

Implementation delays reflected weaknesses in the country’s institutional capacity and/or some
changes in project management on the part of the Bank and government agencies, particularly
during the initial period of implementation. The closing date was extended twice to compensate
for the implementation delays, but the project objectives or the project design did not require
changes. As mentioned, few activities on business environment were not implemented for lack of
time, funds or proper programming (i.e. investment climate surveys); not because of lack of
relevance. They did not seem crucial to prevent the project from attaining its key objectives. To
compensate for the absence of investment climate surveys, a mini survey was organized after the
project’s closure. That enabled the team to verify the achievement of one of the PDO indicators.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project achieved its PDO of improving the business environment by reducing uncertainty of
key regulatory processes, improving delivery of related services, strengthening property rights,
and increasing transparency and accountability of implementing institutions to a substantial
extent (see the outcome and component indicators in the datasheet and below table). Progress in
the last year was substantial and some impact of the activities undertaken in the latest period may
be evident in the months to come. On the whole, out of five PDO Indicators, four were achieved
or partially achieved. One was not achieved. Out of five Intermediate Results Indicators, four
were achieved while one was partially achieved. A very modest but important contribution was
made by this project to increase the transparency and accountability of implementing institutions,
as demonstrated below.

Business services integration

Outcomes in improving services to businesses and simplifying and streamlining administrative
procedures for licensing and permits were achieved or partially reached; the outcome related to
reducing the number of inspection bodies was not reached. The number of MBCs applying new
business standards was on target and is expected to exceed the target by May; the number of
registered businesses increased above the target; administrative procedures for licenses and
permits were simplified and streamlined although not to the targeted level; and regulatory
compliance costs measured by the time spent to comply with business regulations seems to have
declined almost to the targeted level (although based on a mini-survey of 300 companies). There
has been no reduction in the number of inspection bodies. The inspection reform started very late
towards the end of the project and the results will be evident and measurable in the coming
year(s) (see Section 2.2). In other words:

             A recent survey of 300 companies completed in November 2012, indicates that managers
              spend about 3.57 per cent of their time to comply with business regulations 11 (PDO
              indicator) (see Section 3.6 for key results of the beneficiary survey). Ninety-one per cent
              of the businesses reported that, compared to three years ago, the number of days spent for
              regulatory compliancy has been reduced. Gains are associated to the very recent
              unification of procedures for business registrations which is done quickly now in the
              MBCs. Of course, they are evident in those municipalities where the MBC network is in
              place. Working permits are not needed anymore, a notable simplification that favors job
              creation and tend to reduce informality. Modifications in the registrations (i.e. change of
              activities) are also done quickly in the MBCs. Managers spend less time in obtaining
              investment information by using the services of the MBCs12.
             The 2013 Doing Business results placed Kosovo in 98th position, compared to 126 in
              2012. Most of the progress has been made in areas supported under BETA project such
              as starting a business, protecting investors and dealing with construction permits. As a
              result, the registration process is now completed in about 3 days. So far, eight
              administrative procedures (PDO indicator) have been streamlined (the target was 15),
              including the following: business registration fees were eliminated, the registration
              process is streamlined through MBCs, work permits have been eliminated, sanitation
              inspections can be conducted while the business is in operation, charter capital was
              eliminated for Limited Liability Companies (LLCs) and reduced for Joint Stock
              Companies (from 25,000 Euros to 10,000 Euros), six construction licenses were
              eliminated, including licenses for construction, design, revision, licenses for supervision,
              technical acceptance and laboratory license. The Kosovo Tax Administration and the
              Business Registration Agency (KBRA) have recently signed an MOU, so obtaining the
              fiscal number and Value Added Tax (VAT) certificate take place simultaneously with
              business registration, thereby eliminating separate procedures at the Tax Administration,
              the Ministry of Trade and the Kosovo Customs.
             The number of MBCs applying new business standards and fully operational
              (intermediate outcome indicator2) has reached 25 (the project target is 25). The
              simplification introduced by the MBCs is described in the previous points. It must be


11
     This is fully in line with the project’s revised target (3.5%) and an improvement compared to baseline value (5%)
12
     Interview with the Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce corroborated these gains
          acknowledged, however, that MBCs don’t serve as complete one-stop-shops yet as
          initially aimed in project’s design (see Section 2.1). For example, they don’t provide
          other (local) permits. The government has ensured the Bank for its commitment to pursue
          these reforms and has requested support from the Bank and other donors (EU included).
         The number of registered business (PDO indicator) has exceeded the target. According
          to KBRA, there are 113,090 registered businesses as of the beginning of April 2012,
          which is above the target of 100,000.

     Progress in achieving the outcomes referred to before are associated with the project outputs
     and activities described below (see Annex 2 for a full description of linkages from outcomes
     to outputs):

         Upgrading, providing equipment and rehabilitating MBCs to improve business standards:
          This has made the interaction of the MBCs with the client more efficient, fast and
          transparent; moreover every MBC is connected on line with the Head Office. Data
          collected in the field shows 6,116 new registrations in MBCs using the new system,
          3,006 changes in registration and 789 business closures;

         Security and software upgrades for Kosovo Business Registration System were installed
          and system is functioning well, according to field information, contributing to faster
          speed of transactions. Links to all 25 MBCs are functional and replication of the database
          is done on a regular basis;

         Another important step towers improving access to financing was improving legal
          framework and upgrading the Pledge Registry (movable property registry).Technical
          work on the pledge (movable property) registry reforms was almost completed. The draft
          law for the pledge registry has also been consulted with other donors and financial
          institutions. The customized registry system was presented to (staff) users and financial
          institutions. The system will be available in the two official languages (Albanian and
          Serbian). More customization will take place as feedback from banks and financial
          institutions and the registry staff is provided. The registry will be self-sustainable
          financially and will contribute to the Treasury revenues.

         Technical advisors and experts were hired to assist the Investment Promotion Agency
          (IPAK). IPAK operates with a business plan for 2011-13. Some 400 procedures/permits
          applied both at national and local levels were reviewed. Under BETA project, a number
          of these procedures/permits were streamlined. They were of high priority and helped to
          advance the project objective of improving the investment climate.

          But clearly, much remains to be done in the medium term despite the achievements
          described before. For example, the number of inspection bodies was supposed to be
          reduced from 36 to 22. That target was not achieved (see Section 2.2). 13 However,
          significant progress was made in drawing an inventory of existing inspections. This was
          part of the needed diagnostic for inspections reform which resulted in a report presenting



13
   In this connection, there are some indications that the new IFC Advisory Services Investment Climate project will assist the
government in preparing the Regulatory Reform Strategy which would be part of the joint WBG Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
under preparation.
    five options for inspection reforms. The government consulted these options with
    stakeholders and after that an action plan to implement the most suitable option was
    prepared. This should serve to gather donor support in the area.

   MTI decided to merge IPAK and the SME agency in order to simplify activities and gain
    in efficiency. This merge needs to be implemented. Given the improvements already
    introduced by IPAK, it will be in better position to provide more comprehensive services
    to investors through the headquarters or regional branches. IPAK will also coordinate
    with the municipalities the work associated with dealing with investors.

Immovable Property Rights Enhancement Outcome targets were reached, or almost reached,
in all cases. BETA support to the KCA provided the basis for systematic registration of land
and buildings through a series of pilot registration contracts, as well as re-engineering of
processes to improve service delivery, building rehabilitation, capacity building and other
activities that support improved land administration services. The procedures and
methodology developed under BETA for both the Building Construction Cadastre (BCC) and
Cadastre Reconstruction (CR) were instrumental in the preparation of the Real Estate and
Cadastre Project (RECAP) approved in 2009.

The time to register property transactions is much faster, more properties are registered and
mortgages are used as collaterals in a respectable number of transactions if one takes into
account the size of the country, the situation prevailing not long ago and the real estate crises:

       Access to finance measured by number of registered mortgages per year (PDO
        indicator) increased but the target was not fully met. Registered mortgages were
        5395 in 2009, 5364 in 2010 and according to a partial information 3543 for 2011.
        The target was 6000 at the end of the project. An important factor to be mentioned is
        the negative impact of the global financial crisis on real estate activities. This
        affected directly the lending policy of the banks resulting in credit contraction. If the
        financial crisis had not happened this target would most likely have been met.

       Number of apartments measured and recorded with files completed and ready
        for registration in the building cadastre (intermediate outcome indicator 2)
        reached 39.913 in April 2012, thus exceeding the target of 20,000.

       The time to register property transactions in the IPPR (intermediate outcome
        indicator3) was substantially reduced from 40 days at the beginning of the project. It
        is, on average, 15 in Pristina and 10 in Ferizaj. Envisaged target was 10. However,
        reported time includes the mandatory 5 day public announcement (which means that
        that the “de facto? registration time is shorter).

       The number of transactions registered in the IPRR per year (intermediate
        outcome indicator 4) exceeded the target of 50,000. In fact it reached 63,534 in 2010
        and 68,142 in 2012.

       Number of Municipal cadastre offices (MCOs) reengineered exceeded the target
        (intermediate outcome indicator 5), from 2 to 3.

The results described before are the product of the following activities:
               Contracts for the pilot Building Cadastre Construction (BCC) were completed and for
                the most part carried out. The data for BCC in Prishtina, Lipjan and Prizren were
                recently migrated into the new IT system (called the Kosovo Cadastre Land
                Information System --KCLIS). The KCLIS is a tool that supports the re-engineering
                work done under BETA to provide better customer service and efficiency in the
                registration processes. It provides better monitoring and reporting mechanisms.14

               The work for cadastre registration in 26 zones is now complete and the KCA is
                finalizing the quality control and migration of data into the Immovable Property
                Rights Register (IPRR). Of these zones, 23 are financed by BETA and 3 by Norway.
                Due to the delay in approval of the Law on Cadastre, the work was completed under
                the former rules where owners will still need to apply to the court to finalize the
                reconstruction in cases of inheritance, subdivision of parcels etc. Under RECAP, an
                additional 21 zones are now being tendered under the new law and procedures.

               The BETA project assisted in identifying the legal problems hindering registrations
                and successfully advocated the necessary changes to the Law. The new Law on
                Cadaster provides authority to the BCC and Cadastre Register Commissions to
                approve registration information and applications in certain (non-contentious) cases.
                The Administrative Instructions for implementation of the law were drafted by KCA
                at the end of 2011. The Bank commented on the draft and most comments were
                included in final Administrative Instructions.

Increasing transparency and accountability of implementing institutions: the PDOs also
included “… and increasing transparency and accountability of implementing institutions?. As
mentioned before, no indicator has been included in this regard and only indirect signs can be
used to assess progress. It could be concluded that a very modest but important contribution was
made by this project to increasing transparency and accountability in some institutions. First,
processes within the implementing agencies were improved as reflected in the simplification of
registration procedures, the substantial improvement in the practices for land/property
transactions, the upgrading of the Investment Promotion offices and the embryonic steps taken to
towards harmonization of licensing/regulations. Second, as a result of the improvement in
procedures, consumers are now closer to the implementing agencies. The procedures followed by
each agency are clearly explained in their respective websites where agencies also publicized
information, such as job offers, tenders, etc. So there is more transparency in the activities of the
implementing agencies. Third, implementing agencies discharged their fiduciary obligations in
agreement with Bank rules. Despite their administrative weaknesses, there was no evidence that
the procurement process deviated from the Bank's rules. These elements point to the right
direction notwithstanding that they provide a very partial indication. Fourth, there was progress
to increase communication between central government and Municipalities and to contribute to
the increase of transparency and accountability. However to reach the desired goal will demand
substantial post-project work; there are sensitive political issues surrounding this topic.




14
  Complementing this project, the RECAP first tender for additional BCC work will be launched for 10 cities. In addition, RECAP
funds were used to complete registration of the 7,550 extra apartments that were identified by contractors during field work in Pristina
and Peje but for which there were not sufficient funds to complete the work under BETA.
3.3 Efficiency

Considering the objectives and scope of the operation, much of the return will be in the form of
improved business environment and strengthened (real estate) property rights. No economic and
financial assessment was produced for this project. Benefits should be measured in the form of
performance indicators. The time frame for the project was insufficient and the project was
extended for two years, which is quite common in this type of projects and was actually quite
predictable given the fact that institutions were weak and Kosovo was a new country. However,
this resulted in some additional costs/time or reduced efficiency.

The amount spent to prepare this operation slightly exceeded USD 400,000. Somewhat over USD
100,000/year were spent in supervision. These amounts are above the amounts spent in similar
projects. However, this was to be expected since Kosovo is a new country and it will take time to
consolidate government institutions. Considering all these factors, a modest degree of efficiency
was achieved in this project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (MS)

The overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory based on the following assessment. The
project objectives have been highly relevant. They were based on the analytical background of
Kosovo and the familiarity of the Bank with the region. These objectives acquired even more
relevance in the particular situation of Kosovo, especially the issue of property rights. Objectives
and targets were substantially achieved. The project made an important contribution to enhance
property rights and improve business environment. A modest but important contribution was also
made by this project to increase the transparency and accountability of implementing institutions.
Changes in staff of implementing agencies and in the Bank Teams had a negative impact on
implementation; this was resolved to a large extent in the last phase of the project (see Section
2.2). The project achieved its development objectives with a modest degree of efficiency. The
two extensions were appropriate and helped achieved key results although reduced somewhat the
original efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(N/A)

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project was instrumental in identifying the legal problems hindering cadastre registrations. It
successfully advocated the necessary changes to the Law. The new Law on Cadastre provides
authority to the Building Construction Cadastre (BCC) and the Cadastre Register Commissions to
approve registration information and applications in certain (non-contentious) cases. This
contributed to solving part of a very important issue in Kosovo. Also, the Administrative
Instructions for implementation of the law were discussed and improved in the context of this
project.
The institutional changes promoted by this project on business environment were substantial:
simplification of business registration which involved Municipalities and central government
working in a coordinated fashion, elimination of work permits, elimination of charter capital for
Limited Liability Co (LLCs) and reduction for Joint Stock Companies and elimination of several
construction licenses. Also, in the context of this project, legal changes were incorporated in the
registry of pledges, with prospective impact on business financing.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

BETA project launched an enterprise survey to assess the level of regulatory burden businesses
face in Kosovo. The survey was administered to a representative sample of firms in the formal
private economy. The sample included the manufacturing sector, wholesale/retail trade,
transportation and communications and construction sectors.

The study used quantitative method of data collection. A total of 300 face-to-face interviews with
enterprises were carried out across the six regions of Prishtina, Prizren, Peja, Mitrovica, Gjilan,
and Gjakova.

The key findings were the following:

     Sixty-four per cent of businesses reported that they need between three and four licenses,
       permits, and certificates to operate.
     The survey revealed that it took on average 10 days to obtain a business registration
       certificate and on average of 12 days to obtain a work permit. However, as a result of
       21/07/2011 amendments to the Law on Internal Trade, the requirement to obtain a work
       permit has been eliminated, and municipalities no longer have the authority to issue or
       require a business or business person to obtain a work permit.
     It took approximately 30 days from the application to the day the permit was granted for
       the firms to obtain a construction permit.
     The majority of businesses reported that senior management spent between 1 and 8 days in
       contact with government officials to deal and comply with administrative regulations
       during 2012; 23 per cent reported that they spent more than three weeks (15 working
       days) dealing with regulatory compliance.
     The survey found that senior management can expect to spend 3.57 per cent of its time
       dealing with the requirements of government regulation.
     When considering businesses established in the pre-2006 period and post-2007 period,
       respectively pre- and post- BETA project implementation, there have been significant
       improvements. The average time spent dealing with government requirements has
       decreased. In addition, the average number of days obtaining regulatory documents has
       been decreased, except regarding the VAT certificate. Business established in the pre-
       2006 period reported that it took them an average of 8.8 days to obtain VAT certificate,
       while businesses in the post-2007 period reported an average of 9.2.
     Sixty-two per cent of the firms identified business licensing and permits as a “minor? or
       “no obstacle? at all. However, 17 percent rated the requirement for a business license or
       permit as a “major? or “very severe? obstacle for doing business, with the majority of
      businesses operating in Peja, Mitrovica and Gjakova, and in the sectors of manufacturing
      and transport and communications.
     When asked to identify their two biggest obstacles when they first began operations, the
      most frequently mentioned first obstacles were “lack of access to capital? (31%) and
      “business registration process? (21%). On the other hand, the most frequently mentioned
      second obstacles are “lack of business development skills? (23%) and “obtaining all
      necessary permits and licenses? (23%).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk of not maintaining development outcomes is considered moderate. Political conflicts
and/or insufficient commitment of the institutions supported by this project are the main risks to
development outcomes. The lack of qualified personnel in the relevant entities (KCA, MBCs,
etc.) is also a major risk. Risks of political conflicts have diminished but not disappeared. There is
at present political commitment to the institutions supported by the project, but that had not
always been the case throughout the life of the project. This project has generated demand on
efficient property and business registrations. That demand is normally translated into constituency
pressures to the authorities, thereby helping to reduce the impact of potential political crisis or
any (potential) lack of commitments to the activities supported by this project. In the same vein,
the implementation of ongoing reforms to keep qualified staff in the public sector will improve
the ability of the institutions to provide services in an efficient manner and, therefore, to sustain
attained gains.

The advance on property registration seems more solid and less affected by political conflicts.
However, frequent changes in management, as in the past, would affect the efficiency of KCA.
Gains on business registration face some important challenges. Such gains depend, to a large
extent, on the political climate governing the relations between Municipalities and the central
government. The situation is now favorable but the future is not free of uncertainties. Governance
is still a fundamental issue and the chances for some conflicts between the central government
and key municipalities over the business registration process have not disappeared. Therefore,
good relations between the government and municipalities are crucial to minimize risks to
development outcomes. In addition, several programs and projects need to be continued until
local institutions are fully consolidated. For this, external financing will be required, including
technical assistance. This (prospective) donor involvement will be crucial for the sustainability of
several gains already attained.

Implementation heavily relied on Consultants financed by the project. This is somewhat
understandable for a new country. However, it poses very serious challenges and risks to
sustainability that will need to be addressed by the country and the donor community
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

        (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank selected this project based on its high priority and relevance as demonstrated by the
background information. It took into consideration the policy and institutional conditions
prevailing in the country, it designed a sensible implementation arrangement factoring the
political complexities of Kosovo and anticipated risks in a clear manner, although the need for
much longer term assistance on business regulations was not explicitly envisaged. The
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements were generally appropriate albeit they showed some
weaknesses by including indicators which depended on very uncertain sources of information
given the situation prevailing in Kosovo (i.e. the ones depending on prospective surveys).
Economic and Financial aspects were not applicable in this project. The Basic Law on Property
Rights from 1980 (which is currently the relevant law in Kosovo) has no gender bias nor does it
discriminate against ethnic groups. This was subject to monitoring during implementation. No
environmental issues were anticipated based on the project design which did not include any
physical construction activities, other than minor renovations of (municipal) offices. The financial
management arrangements were acceptable and used the experience of previous grants managed
by the Bank.

        (b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The quality of supervision improved as the project progressed. Implementation Support Reports
(ISRs) and Aide Memoires were frank on elaborating on implementation issues. There was room
to emphasize more on results, particularly outcomes, in its dialogue with the authorities. No
triggering in safeguard policies took place. No significant social or environmental issues had been
anticipated but the Team followed up closely the issue of property claims associated with the
Kosovo’s post war situation, in coordination with UNHCR and HPD. The Bank was proactive to
solve project problems. It always insisted on identifying following steps to resolve
implementation issues as well as implementation plans by relevant implementing agencies for the
period following supervision. However, changes in (Bank) staff managing the project during
sensitive periods did not allow sufficient follow up in a volatile situation. Besides, the project
depended too much on headquarter staff during most part of its implementation.

During the last fifteen months of project implementation, bi-monthly reviews of procurement
progress by the team leader, the procurement officer, and the adviser to the Minister were
undertaken. As mentioned before, the Bank team was able to work with more intensity. The new
team leader as of March 2011 was based in Tirana, Albania which is 3-4 hour-drive from Pristina
thereby facilitating a permanent followed up of the project activities. Similarly, a committed new
(World Bank) local staff contributed to the improvement in project implementation observed
during the last year

These issues were gradually resolved albeit they probably had some impact on results and/or
project efficiency. On the whole, the Bank performance could be considered Moderately
Satisfactory having reached a satisfactory level at the end of implementation.
        (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory based on satisfactory design that
considered the strategic priorities, and moderately satisfactory supervision with moderate
shortcomings in consistency in adequate supervision inputs and focus on impact on outcomes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

        (a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
In the final stage of the project, the government --mainly through the Ministry of Trade and
Industry-- have demonstrated a fair degree of commitment and initiative. More attention was paid
to implementation issues and more focus was given to achieving project results, albeit this needed
to be more consistent. The managers of implementing agencies were more stable in their
positions thereby minimizing disruptions. More coordination and consultations with donors took
place. The financial management arrangements of the project were applied satisfactory. The
Government maintained a financial management system acceptable to the Bank, as established in
a legal Covenant. According to the ISRs, budgeting, accounting and internal control procedures
applied consistently. There is no evidence that the procurement process deviated from the Bank's
procurement rules and guidelines notwithstanding that the procurement agency is still weak.
Unnecessary delays in procurement had been observed and changes of staff contributed to
weaken the performance in several occasions. These developments followed a long, slow
implementation period where government commitment was weak and results less than
satisfactory. Managers of implementing agencies had changed frequently. Issues and problems
had not been resolved expeditiously and decisions were not based in most cases on information
provided by results-indicators. In addition, the government had not paid its portions of project
expenditures in a timely manner.

        (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Implementing agencies were progressively building a culture of commitment to their objectives
and services. However, they had been negatively affected by a volatile political environment and
frequent managerial changes. Agencies heavily depend on external Consultants in key tasks.
Readiness to solve issues and take initiatives improved lately albeit it is still limited. They
showed modest capacity to utilize M&E data in interpreting results and/or analyzing their
activities. Agencies enjoy little if any autonomy in their decisions. They carried out their
fiduciary tasks satisfactorily but a permanent follow-up was needed on the part of the Bank.
Budgeting, accounting and internal control procedures were applied consistently. The main
weakness in financial management was the lack of adequate monitoring of project available
funds. The impact of the exchange rate fluctuations on fund availability were not monitored
adequately. These caused some concerns over the accuracy of procurement plans and their proper
execution particularly as the project was in its final stages.
        (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Government and agencies performance are both moderately satisfactory. Therefore, the overall
rating is also moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

      When there are strong uncertainties, political volatilities and institutional
       weaknesses, project should be as focused as possible, avoiding disparate components.
       The simplification introduced at appraisal by narrowing the scope of the operation (i.e.
       dropping food inspections) was in retrospect adequate and facilitated implementation. It
       was clear that too many components required more agencies to be involved making the
       project too complex and probably unmanageable given the institutional capacity of the
       country. To sustain expected gains, the post-project agenda needs to be visualized
       when the project is designed. The project financed only the very initial steps of
       licensing harmonization. A much longer term agenda should have been anticipated. In
       fact, a complex process lays ahead, most likely full of difficulties and competing interests.
       Advancing in further harmonization could be crucial even to sustain the simplified
       registration system attained by this project. Areas of regulations are several: health, safety,
       environment, transport, etc. In some cases the jurisdiction for issuing regulations needs to
       be clearly established. In some others, the jurisdiction for enforcing regulations needs to
       be defined. For all these tasks, Kosovo will need additional assistance which is yet to be
       obtained.
      Intensified efforts, carried out in the field by the Bank Team are extremely crucial
       when the country and institutions are still weak. Task managing the project from
       Albania was a major advantage in the last stage of the project and proved to be very
       positive. Bi-monthly reviews of procurement progress by the team leader, the
       procurement officer, and the adviser to the Minister were practical measures that
       provided impetus to the implementation.
      Even short extensions could produce substantial gains if they are introduced when
       conditions are favorable. The last extension took place at almost the end of 2011. At
       that time it was clear that government commitment became stronger, the political
       situation in Kosovo more amenable to implement the project decisively, the (government
       and Bank) teams more enthusiastic to achieve results. In a few months the project was
       completed making a contribution to the country in two priority areas of development.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

N/A

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                             Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 Business Services Integration
                                         2.625          N/A*                     N/A
Immovable Property Rights                3.366
                                                        N/A*                     N/A
Enhancement
Project Coordination and                 0.580
                                                        N/A*                     N/A
Monitoring
            Total Baseline Cost          6.571              7.22                 110
Physical Contingencies
                                                               0                  0
Price Contingencies
                                           0.429               0                  0
             Total Project Costs           7.00                7.22
Front-end fee PPF                          0                   0                  0
Front-end fee IBRD                         0                   0                  0
     Total Financing Required              7.00                7.22**            103



(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                      millions)    millions)
Borrower                                           0.00         0.00         .00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-
                                                   7.00            7.22**      103.00
CONFLICT

* Cost breakdown by components is not available. The project financial management reports
provided total costs by disbursement categories (goods, services, etc.).
  ** Actual amount is higher than original estimate by $0.22 million due to SDR/USD exchange
rate gains. Actual USD equivalent of the original IDF grant was $7.23 million.
           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

  Table 1: Project                     Outcome Indicators or proxies for          Objectives of the component                     Component                    Sub-components (Outputs)                                   Specific Financing (Activities/Inputs)
                                            outcomes (revised RF)                 (Outcomes)
 Activities, Outputs,
Component Outcomes
     and Project
  OutcomesProject
          Objectives
                                         Reduced regulatory compliance                Reduce regulatory uncertainty                                Upgrading of Kosovo Business Registration        Software-programming US$170,000
                                          costs of business measured by                Harmonize business regulations                               System (estimated cost: US$ 275,000)
                                          percentage of management time                 and the licensing framework at the                                                                            Equipment for Registry and municipalities US$50,000
                                          spent on compliance with business             central and municipal- level                                                                                  Staff training for municipalities US$15,000
                                          regulation                                   Reduce existing administrative                                                                                Technical maintenance in municipalities US$30,000
                                         Number of administrative                      barriers to start and/or operate
                                          procedures for licenses and permits           business                                                                                                      Printing of manuals/forms us$10,000
                                          simplified and streamlined 15                Improve the transparency and                                 Equipment and Rehabilitation of BSC Premises     Equipment US$250,000
                                         Increased number of registered                accountability of regulatory                                 (estimated cost: US$550,000)                     Rehabilitation of premises US$300,000
                                          businesses                                    functions administered by             Business Services
                                                                                                                                                     Establishment of Business Service Centers and    Consulting contract to establish BSCs US$1,200,000
                                         Number of inspections bodies                  municipalities                        Integration
                                                                                                                                                     harmonization (estimated cost: US$1,200,000)
                                          reduced                                      Facilitate investment and improve     (Estimated Cost
                                          Number of MBCs applying new                   public access throughout Kosovo                                                                               Assessment of administrative barriers US$400,000
                                                                                                                             US$ 2.63 million)
                                          business standards16                          to regulatory information                                                                                     Advisory assistance to IPA us$100,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Inspections regulations and implementation US$ 95,000
                                                                                                                                                     Assistance for the Investment Promotion Agency   Business licensing regimes; US$95,000
                                                                                                                                                     (estimated cost: US$600,000)                     Consultancy for the Inspection Strategy US$ 80,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Consultancy for the Licencing Strategy US$ 39,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Equipment for P A US$30,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Publications/Promotional materials US$50,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Investment Promotion Conference us$20,000
                                         Increased access to finance                  Secure immovable property rights                             Implementation Support, Registration             Consulting contracts (5) US$180,000
                                          measured by number of                         as a contribution to land market                             Improvement, and Land Policy and Legal
                                          registered mortgages, per year                development                                                  Technical Assistance (US$l80,000)
                                         Number of apartments measured                Improving use of property rights                                                                              Renovations in 30 offices (average) US$450,000
                                          and recorded, with files completed            as collateral through mortgages,
                                          and ready for registration registered         facilitating new business start-ups                          Establishment of an Immovable Property Rights    Publicity and awareness campaign US$180,000
Improve the business                      in the building cadastre                      in terms of improving access to                              Registration System in Municipalities
environment by reducing                   Reduction of time to register                 capital                                                                                                       Supply of specialized staff in 30 offices for 3 years US$365,000
                                                                                                                                                    (US$1,390,000)
uncertainty of key regulatory             property transactions in the IPPR in         Reducing transaction times                                                                                    Specialized equipment for Registration US$350,000
processes, improving delivery of          Prishtina and Ferizaj MCOs                                                                                                                                  Document and archiving strategy and training US$45,000
related services, strengthening          Number of transactions registered in
property rights, and increasing           the IPRR, per year                                                                                                                                          Public awareness campaigns US$180,000
transparency and accountability          Number of MCOs reengineered                                                                                                                                 Cadastre renewal in Pristina MCO US$132,000
of implementing institutions
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cadastre renewal in Urban areas US$270,000
                                                                                                                                                     Cadastre Reconstruction (US$1,146,000)
                                                                                                                              Immovable Property                                                      Cadastre renewal in Mixed urba/peri-urba/rural areas US$240,000
                                                                                                                              Rights Enhancement
                                                                                                                              (US$3.36 million)

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cadastre renewal in Rural areas US$264,000

                                                                                                                                                                                                      T A in support of cadastre renewal projects US$60,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pilot project contract US$50,000

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Main ‘building cadastre’ contract US$550,000
                                                                                                                                                     Building Cadastre Establishment (US$650,000)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Expert guidance, training, study tour US$50,000

                                                                                       Strengthening capacity for            Project Coordination         Design and establishment of project             Small Project Secretariat that include two to three local experts, some of
                                                                                        procurement, financial                and Monitoring                monitoring and evaluation system                 whom may be individuals seconded from local agencies
                                                                                        management, and monitoring and        (US$0.58 million)            Support for investment climate surveys          Overall monitoring and evaluation of the specific performance
                                                                                        evaluation of results                                              Training for procurement, disbursement           indicators and the business environment more broadly, specifically
                                                                                                                                                            and financial management                         investment climate surveys
                                                                                                                                                           Auditing of project accounts
                                                                                                                                                           Project coordination




           15
                This indicator was introduced in the restructuring dated June 2011. It measures the original outcomes.
           16
                The target was increased from 15 to 25 in the restructuring dated June 2011.
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No economic and financial analysis has been included in the PAD. Given the nature of the
operation, most returns have been in the form of faster business registrations, integration of
business and tax registrations, integral services provided by Business Centers including
information about investments. This has been evidenced from the "Doing Business", in 2013
report, where Kosovo marks the greatest progress in this ranking. Compared to the previous year,
when the country was in position 117, this year it is listed as the 98th out of 183 countries. This
means that Kosovo has improved by 19 positions in the most qualitative report on the indicators
of doing business 2012. That contrasted with the situation prevailing before where businesses
were requested to obtain a number of documents which increased the cost of doing business. In
addition, the project contributed to strengthening property rights by reducing the time to register
property transactions in the Immovable Property Rights Registry (IPPR).

Despite the euro crisis, Kosovo’s economy has continued to perform strongly, shielded from
the financial crisis in the euro area by limited trade and financial linkages . Following a real
growth rate of 5 percent in 2011, the estimation for 2012 GDP is to increase by about 3.6 percent,
driven by high levels of public investment, increasing domestic activity, robust inflows of
remittances, and solid though slower credit growth. These factors, together with Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI) boost coming from the privatization of telecom and electricity distribution
companies, are expected to keep growth at similar level in 2013. Effects from the potentially
deteriorating external environment should be smaller than in neighboring countries, leaving
medium-term growth projections at around 4 percent.

Kosovo has managed to maintain healthy public finances and protect the fiscal space for
public investments in 2012. The Government concluded a new 20-month, €107-million Stand-
By Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF, which was approved by the IMF Board on April 29th.
With a fiscal deficit at end-2011 of 1.9 percent of GDP (projected 2.7 percent of GDP in 2012)
and a projected stock of public debt of 8.9 percent (Figures 1 and 2), Kosovo’s Euroized economy
finds itself better positioned than most countries in the region. To ensure long-term fiscal
sustainability, the government considers the adoption of a fiscal rule (to be designed with
assistance of the IMF by end February 2013).

The 2012 budget projects a moderate growth in overall revenues by 3.7 percent, which is
broadly perceived as achievable, despite the fact that tax revenues are underperforming.
However, the heavy snow storm of, and the arctic temperatures during February had a direct
impact on imports—with revenue collections at the border lagging behind the original plan. The
2010 and 2011 deficits were financed by accumulated government deposits from previous fiscal
surpluses. By end 2011 and in May 2012 Kosovo government received an amount of about €56
million in totals as a budget support from the World Bank and 10 other donors. This has
strengthened bank balances. The budget deficit is projected to be 2.7 percent of GDP in 2012.

Legislative and financing constraints define limits to the extent that government can pursue
expansionary fiscal policies. To prevent public debt from rising to unsustainable levels, Kosovo
has (i) adopted a public debt law that sets a maximum public-debt-to-GDP ratio of 40 percent;
and (ii) stipulated in its Constitution that external borrowing by government (including highly
concessional IDA credits).Until end-2011, the public debt stock was entirely external and only in
2012 the domestic short term debt was introduced.
                                          Figure 1. Kosovo: Fiscal Performance 2009–12




Sources: Ministry of Finance; and IMF and World Bank staff estimates.   Sources: National authorities; and World Bank staff
estimates.




Figure 3. Domestic debt issued in 2012 and its interest rates




Sources: Central Bank of the republic of Kosovo
The very wide current-account deficit (CAD), partly reflecting the large import
content of investment spending, is expected to slightly widen further in 2012. Earlier
expectation that the exports (of metals) were projected to grow did not materialize due to
weak economic performance in Europe and low price of base metals. Nonetheless, the
CAD will continue to be financed mostly by non-debt creating inflows such as foreign
investment, accumulated savings, and unidentified inflows (i.e. errors and omissions), but
some public borrowing from international financial institutions (IMF) is undergoing.

Kosovo’s economic linkages are stronger with the better-performing countries
(Germany and Switzerland) than with the troubled southern EU countries (Greece
and Italy). The economy is expected to experience only minor spillovers from the crisis
in the euro area, in view of limited financial linkages and a small export base. Moreover
the remittances, FDI and other non-debt creating flows from Kosovars living in Germany
and Switzerland are expected to remain stable, reflecting the solid economic and labor
market conditions in these economies. The FDI inflows are projected to cover about one-
half of the 2012 CAD: the surge in FDI, expected to come from the privatization of the
telecom and the energy distribution companies, is now expected to be delayed in 2013. In
addition, Kosovo is not exposed to FDIs or banks from the eurozone’s southern periphery.

Kosovo is one of the poorest countries in Europe with almost 35 percent of the
population living below the poverty line of €1.55 per adult equivalent per day.
Around 12 percent of people live in extreme poverty—less than €1.02 per adult
equivalent per day. Youth are disproportionately poor; 60 percent of poor people are less
than 30 years old. This is very much related to high unemployment where Kosovo has
one of the highest unemployment rates in the world—an estimated 45 percent in 2009
with a slow decline in recent years. Kosovo has an employment rate of 29 percent, the
lowest in Europe compared to an average of 66 percent for EU countries. Female
employment rates are extremely low—only 13 percent of the working age
populationbased on the 2009 Labor Force Survey (LFS). Unemployment is particularly
high among young persons (15–24-year-olds), women, and individuals with limited
education (lower secondary education or less). The unemployment rate among youth is
70 percent; women 60 percent; and people with limited education 65 percent. The school-
to-work transition is very slow. The Bank’s analysis reveals that, due to very limited new
jobs and despite the positive economic growth, the only way to smoothen unemployment
in the short-to-medium term is through migration to Western European countries.
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
                                       Lending
      Stuart W. Bell        Sr Private Sector Development    ECSPF          M
   Olav Rex Christensen     Senior Public Finance Speciali   HDNED          M
       Arben Maho               Procurement Specialist       ECSO2          M
       Silvia Mauri                   Consultant             MNSAR          M
    Aleksandar Nacev                  Consultant             ECSPF          M
       Cari Votava             Sr Financial Sector Spec.      FFSFI         M
       Mark Walker                  Chief Counsel            LEGES          M

                                   Supervision/ICR
     Gavin P. Adlington     Lead Land Administration Speci   ECSS3        Mmm
    Camille Bourguignon               Consultant              ARD          M
   Joanna Peace De Berry    Senior Social Development Spec   ECSS4         M
          Ama Esson                Program Assistant         ECSSD         M
          Vito Intini                 Consultant             ECSPE         M
        Sharifa Kalala             Program Assistant         ECSSD         M
   Jonathan Mills Lindsay           Senior Counsel           LEGEN         M
        Paula F. Lytle      Senior Social Development Spec   AFTCS         M
         Arben Maho             Procurement Specialist       ECSO2         M
     Alexandra Cristina
                             Junior Professional Associate   ECSS3          M
         Montealegre
      Irina Ramniceanu            Agric. Economist           ECSS1          M
          Anu Saxen          Senior Land Policy Specialist   ECSS3          M
     Cora Melania Shaw                Consultant             ECSS3          M
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                      37.25                       180.86
FY05                      39.20                       206.88
FY06                      76.45                       387.74
Total:                    152.90                      775.48
Supervision/ICR           M
FY06                      27.65                       116.57
FY07                      17.91                       101.03
FY08                      32.67                       107.89
FY09                      27.03                       116.66
FY10                      27.10                       155.42
FY11                      28.51                       180.70
FY12                      35.03                       165.90
FY13                      5.31                        16.74
Total:                    201.21                      960.91
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
To be attached in PDF format
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

On May 15, 2012 the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) with support of World Bank project –
Business Environment Technical Assistance (BETA) organized a seminar on: "BETA Project-
outcomes and directions awaiting us". The Aim of this seminar was to discuss the main
achievements and expected impact of the BETA project. The participants were the Ministry of
Trade and Industry, Prime Minister Office, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Local Government
Administration, Chamber of Commerce, Organizations of Civil Society, the donor community
supporting business environment reforms, and international organizations.

The following topics were discussed:
    Creation of the Municipality’s network for Business Centers or One Stop Shops
    The new E-Pledge Registry
    Options evaluation for inspection reforms
    Support for the Investment Promotion Agency of Kosovo (IPAK)
    Support for the Kosovo Cadastral Agency capacity building (KCA)

In her speech to workshop participants, the MTI’s Minister, Mimoza Kusari-Lila, said among
other things: ''Today, when I look to the finalization of the project, I remember conversations we
had before, and I consider that the engagement and commitment to the public sector provide
rewards, like this day, today. The first reward is to see that changes are physically visible and the
second one is the feeling that the application of new procedures will be to the benefit of private
sector businesses and the Kosovo’s economy in general.? On the other hand, the Leader of the
World Bank Team working on the BETA project, Greta Minxhozi, said that the project managed
to disburse a large amount of funds in less than one year and half despite difficulties. She
emphasized that such achievement was possible thanks to a share commitment of the Government
and the World Bank to the project.

Minister Kusari–Lila discussed the business reforms in the Seminar. Referring to the Business
Centers she stressed that they allowed businesses to be registered faster. Centers also allow
businesses to be integrated with the tax system, saving time to managers. Businessmen receive
only one certificate that includes a business registration and tax (or fiscal) number. Business
Centers provide all services for business registration, including issuing licenses for the petroleum
products, information papers about doing businesses, etc. That contrasted with the situation
prevailing before where businesses were requested to obtain a number of documents which
increased the cost of doing businesses. At present individual businesses can receive the certificate
containing the business and fiscal number in a single day. Joint stock companies can receive such
certificate in about three days. Business Registration Agency, Kosovo Customs and Tax
Administration operate as a single institution in terms of business registration.

The executive director of Kosovo Cadastral Agency (KCA), Murat Meha, highly appreciated the
implementation of the project and added that the said the progress under the project was positive.
Meha further stated that the project was multi-dimensional and initially served to build capacities
and continued with training, real projects and reconstruction of cadastral data and building
cadastres. BETA project amounted to 7 million dollars, out of which 3.5 million dollars were
dedicated to the Agency, and 3.5 million dollars to the MTI.

Among many tasks conducted within the project, Meha stated that 26 cadastral zones were
registered and municipal cadastral offices were renovated in Pristina, Ferizaj and Prizren, as well
as the registration of 12 thousand apartments. The feature of this registration, Meha claims, is that
with the registration of apartments in these three cities, citizens will have an easier access to loans
from commercial banks of Kosovo, since citizens may mortgage their apartments now. Further,
there will be more efficient services and a much more visible transparency than up to date. While
the six-years’ project will formally end on Tuesday, the Director of the Kosovo Cadastral Agency
stated that there is an agreement, concluded in July 2011, with the World Bank and that the next,
RECAP project has commenced, which will last for five years. The project amounts to 12 million
and 250 thousand dollars and 55 per cent of the amount will be given as a loan, whereas 45 per
cent as a grant.

The Executive director of Kosova Business Registration Agency, KBRA, Gazmend Mejzini
spoke about reforms on (i) business registration simplification, and (ii) pledge registry
modernization supported under BETA project. On the first topic he highlighted the achievements
in reduction and simplification of administrative procedures, shortening in 3 days of registration
process, opening of “one stop shop? for obtaining fiscal number, VAT certificate and business
registration number. At the closing of the project, there are 28 fully operational MBC throughout
Kosovo and the number of registered businesses has exceeded the initial project target. The
Project also helped in upgrading KBRA and MBC premises as well as Security & Software
upgrades for the Registration System. On the pledge registry, the support consisted in three
aspects (i) Legal framework update (ii) registry modernization and IT upgrade and (iii) building
local capacity (lawyers, registry staff and bankers)

After the workshop, the minister Kusari-Lila and the World Bank team inaugurated the premises
of the Center for Business Services at the MTI, supported under the BETA project.
The Minister, spoke about the reforms undertaken by MTI and for the importance of this center.
"The opening of this center also implies the integration of business registration system, where
businesses now receive only one certificate for the fiscal and business number,"
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

BETA, PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT, MAY 10, 2005
BETA, RESTRUCTURING PAPER, JUNE 2011
BETA, PROJECT INFORMATION DOMENT (PID); CONCEPT STAGE, AUGUST 2004
BETA GRANT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, 2005
THE PROPOSED WORLD BANK GROUP’S COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY FOR KOSOVO
DURING FY12-15, APRIL 4, 2012
Real Estate Cadastre and Registration Project (RECAP), PAD, 2009
Kosovo in 2012: Prospects for Turning Fragility into Long-Term Stability, Lecture at the World Bank,
Daniel Serwer, Senior Fellow, Center for Transatlantic Relations/ SAIS, and Johannes Wiegand, Deputy
Chief in the European Department, International Monetary Fund, April 2012
Doing Business 2012 data for Kosovo, 2012, http://www.doingbusiness.org/Kosovo Business Registration
Agency, Activities of the Business Registration Agency, Ministry of Trade and Industry, http://www.mti-
ks.org
Kosovo Cadastre Agency, http://www.kca-ks.org
List of Countries with Limited Recognition, Wikipedia, 2012
Draft Concept Note: Kosovo Investment Climate Project, IFC, April 2012
Business Licenses issue in 2004, Government document
Kosovo’s Business Environment: Constraints to Growth, World Bank, 2004
Business Registration Start-Up: A Concept Note; Liliana de Sa, International Finance Corporation (IFC) &
the World Bank, October 27, 2005
Public Sector Modernization Project, PAD, December 2009
Interim Strategy Note FYs 2010-11
Broadcast media: mms://video.rtklive.com/tjera/1930_1505.wmv
Online media:
         Telegrafi: http://m.telegrafi.com/ekonomi/hapet-qendra-per-sherbime-te-biznesit-46-11326.html
         Ekonomia: http://www.ekonomia-ks.com/?page=1,3,23733
         Balkan Business Today: http://www.bb2day.eu/kosovo/business/2768-kosovo-the-center-for-
         business-service-has-been-opened.html
Print media:
EpokaeRe_16May2012.pdf
Ministry of Trade and Industry website:
         http://www.mti-ks.org/?cid=1,577,2074
         http://www.mti-ks.org/?cid=1,577,2075
Implementation Status and Results (with Full ORAF)
         May 2012
         September 2011
         January 2011
         December 2010
         February 2010
         June 2009
         April 2008
         June 2007
         October 2007
         March 2006
AIDE MÉMOIRES
         OCTOBER, 4-14,2011
         MARCH, 21-29, 2011
         OCTOBER 2008, MID-TERM REVIEW
         MAY 2012
OTHER MEMOS
         Extension of Closing Date, June 2011
Annex 10. Persons Interviewed for this ICR


       Greta Minxhozi, BETA Task Team Leader
       Blerta Qerimi, BETA Business Environment Specialist
       Jan-Peter Olters, Kosovo Country Manager
       Katherine Kelm, BETA Property Rights and Cadastre Specialist
       Tarik Sahovic, BETA Business Environment Specialist
       Arben Maho, BETA Procurement Specialist
       Evis Sulko, Country Operations Officer
       Melvin Asin, Deputy Head of Operations, EU, Kosovo
       Radica Nusdorfer, Deputy Head of External Action Service, EU, Kosovo
       Murat Meha, Kosovo Cadastre Agency
       Muzafer Qaka, BETA Secretariat
       Ekrem Tahiri, Solutions, Media and Communications, survey on land registration
       Armend Susuri, Media and Communications, survey on land registration
       Gazmend Mejzini, Executive, Kosovo Business Registration Agency
       Xhavit Buzhalla, BETA Secretariat
       Yair Baranes, Kosovo Business Registration Agency
       Edlira Qefalija, FM Specialist
       Edlira Sakiqi, Jacob & Associates, Inspections Reforms
       Shaip Meziri, Manager, Vesutrri Municipality, Business Center
       Bernard Nikaj, Political Adviser to the Minister
       Valdrin Lluka, Head of IPAK
       Rajmonda Kukalaj, Acting Director of Department for Economy and Trade
       Ministry of European Integration
       Florin Canolli, Officer, Ministry of Economic Integration
       Blerim Ahmeti, Senior Officer for Internal Market, Trade and SMEs
        Directorate for Economy and Trade
       Irpan Lipovica, Officer, Ministry of Trade (MIT)
       Mimoza Kusari-Lila, Minister of Trade
       Safet Gërxhaliu, Head of Kosovo Chamber of Commerce
       Rifat Hyseni, Deputy of Head of Tax Administration (IT Department)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 37048R



                                                                                                                    KOSOVO
                                                              KOMUNA/OPŠTINA CAPITALS*                                                                              MAIN ROADS

                                                              RRETH/OKRUG CAPITALS**                                                                                RAILROADS

                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                      KOMUNA/OPŠTINA BOUNDARIES

                                                              RIVERS                                                                                                RRETH/OKRUG BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                 * The first name is in Albanian and the second one is in Serbian.
                                                 ** Names of the Rreth/Okrug are the same as their capitals.

  20°00’ E                                                     20°30’ E                                To                                             21°00’ E                                                            21°30’ E




                                                                                               Ibar
                                                                                                      Raška
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                   0       5              10           20 Kilometers
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                           10                      20 Miles




                                         IA
                                  S ER B I A
                                                                                                                              Iba
                                                                                                                                       Leposaviq/


                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                       Leposavic
                                                                                                                                       Leposavic
                                                                                                                                               ´

                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Prokuplje             SERBIA
 43°00’ N                                              To                                                        MITROVICA                                                                                                                                43°00’ N
                                                     Novi
                                                                                                            KOSOVASKA MITROVICA




                                                                                                                                                                               Lab
                                                     Pazar

                                                                                                                                       Zveçan/
                                                                                     Zubin Potok/                  Ibar
                                                                                                                                       Zvecan
                                                                                                                                          ˇ                                            Podujevë/
                                                                                                                                                                                       Podujevë/
                                                                                      Zubin Potok                                                                                      Podujevo
                                                                                                                                              Mitrovicë/
                                                                                                                                              Mitrovicë/
   MONTENEGRO                                                                                                                                 Mitrovica
                                                                                                                   Kl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Reka
                                                                                                                    ina




                                                                                                                                                                                                           rska
                     To                                                                                                                                 Vushtrri/




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
           H       Berane
                                                o r                                                                                                     Vucitrn
                                                                                                                                                          ˇ                                                                  Leskovac
               a
                   j l                    o d g                      Istog/
                                        P
                                                                                                                                                         Sit




                       a                                             Istok
                                                                                                                                                                                     PRISHTINË
                                                                                                                                                           nic
                                                                                                                                                            a




                                                                                                            Skenderaj/
                                                                                                                Srbica
                                                                                                                                                                                      PRIŠTINA
                                                                                                                                                                     Obiliq/
                                                          PEJA                                                                                                       Obili ´
                                                                                                                                                                     Obilic          PRISHTIN
                                                                                                                                                                                     PRISHTINË
                                  Pejë
                                     ´
                                   Pec                    PEC´                                                                                     Fushë Kosova/
                                                                                                                                                   Fushë
                                                                                                                                                                                     PRIŠTINA
                                                                                                                              Drenas/                Kosovo Polje                            Gr
                                                                                                           Klina                                                                               ac                  Novobërdë/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Novobërdë/
                                                                                             Klinë/
                                                                                             Klinë/                          Glogovac                                                              an
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ka            Novo Brdo
                                                                                             Klina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kamenicë/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kamenicë/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kamenica
                                                                                 Beli Drim




                                                                                                                                                                    Sit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GJILANI
                                                                                                                                                                     nic




                               Deçan/
                                                                                                                                                                       a




                               Decani
                                 ˇ                                                           Miruša                                                                          Lipjan/
                                                                                                                                                 Dr




                    Daravica
                                                                                                                                                                             Lipljan                                    GNJILANE Binacka
                                                                                                                                                  eni




 42°30’ N           (2656 m)                                                                                                                                                                                                                              42°30’ N
                                                                                                                                                   ca




                                                                                                                          Malishevë/
                                                                                                                          Malishevë/
                                                                                                                          Mališevo                                                                                            Gjilan/
                                               G J A K O VA                                                                                                       Shtime/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gnjilane                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bujanovac
                                               ?AKOVICA                            Rahoveci/
                                                                                   Orahovac
                                                                                                                                                                  Štimlje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ka
                                            Gjakovë/
                                            Gjakovë/                                                                                                                                                              Bin
                                                                                                                                                                                Ferizaj/
                                            ?akovica                                                                                  Theranda/                                 Uroševac
                                                                                                                               ga
                                                                                                                          Toplu       Suva Reka
                                                                                                                                                                 FE RIZAJI
                                                                                                                                                                 FERIZAJI                                 Viti/
                                                                                             Beli                   PRIZRENI                                                                              Vitina

                    A L B ANI
                    ALB   AN IA
                              A
                                                                                                    Drim
                                                                                                                                                                 URO ŠE VAC
                                                                                                                                                                 UROŠEVAC
                                                                                                                    PRIZREN
                                                                                                                                                                 Shtërpcë/
                                                                                                                                                                 Shtërpcë/                   Kaçanik/
                                                                                                                                                                 Štrpce                      Kacanik
                                                                                                                                                                                               ˇ
                                                                                                                      Prizren/
                                                                                                                      Prizren
                                                                               hë
                                                                            rd
                                                                      i   Ba
                                                                  ini
                                                                                                                                      Bi




                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                Dr
                                                                                                                                         st
                                                                                                                                        ric




                                                                                                                                                                    Tetovo
                                                                                                                                            a




                                                                      To
                                                                     Kukës
                                                                     Kukës
                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                               nin
                                                                                                           Dragash/
                                                                                                           Dragaš           la
                                                                                                                       P




                   KOSOVO                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                   Šar




 42°00’ N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42°00’ N
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Skopje



                                                                                                                                                                               FY R O F
                                                                                                                                                                             MA CEDO
                                                                                                                                                                                CEDONINIA
                                                                                                                                                                                        A

20°00’ E                                                     20°30’ E                                                                                 21°00’ E                                                             21°30’ E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAY 2012
