                    Document of
                 The World Bank

                                   62525 v1    Report No:




              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                       ON A

         PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                       OF

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                    IDA GRANT
                   June 14, 2005


                     TO THE

               REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO


                    June 7, 2011
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BCC    Building Cadastre Construction
IPAK   Investment Promotion Agency of Kosovo
IPRR   Immovable Property Rights Registration
KBRA   Kosovo Business Registration Agency
KCA    Kosovo Cadastre Agency
MBC    Municipal Business Center
MCO    Municipal Cadastre Office
MLGA   Ministry of Local Government Administration
MTI    Ministry of Trade and Industry
OSS    One-Stop Shop




            Regional Vice President:        Philippe H. Le Houerou
                   Country Director:        Jane Armitage
           Sector Manager / Director:       Lalit Raina/Gerardo Corrochano
                  Task Team Leader:         Greta Minxhozi

                                        2
                                            KOSOVO
                BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TA PROJECT
                                              P088045
                                          CONTENTS
A. SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 4
B. PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 6
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING .................................... 7
ANNEX 3: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE.......................................................... 10




                                                             3
                          BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TA PROJECT

                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER



SUMMARY
      On the request of the Government, the project’s closing date is proposed to be
      extended from June 30, 2011 to May 31, 2012. This will be a cumulative extension of
      the original Closing Date (February 28, 2010) of more than 2 years.1 The results
      monitoring framework is being slightly revised to allow for a better measuring and
      monitoring of the project’s results. There are no changes to the project development
      objectives (PDOs) or project outcomes. The project development objectives remain
      achievable.

      Financial management covenants have been met, and there are no outstanding
      financial audit reports or interim financial reports. The auditors issued unqualified
      opinions on all prior project financial statements audits under the project.


PROJECT STATUS
      The project has two components: (1) the business environment component supporting
      (i) establishment of Municipal Business Centers (MBCs); (ii) assistance to Kosovo
      Business Registration Agency (KBRA); and (iii) assistance to Investment Promotion
      Agency of Kosovo (IPAK); and (2) the immovable property rights component
      supporting: (i) the new system of immovable property rights registration, (ii) the
      cadastre reconstruction process, and a new building cadastre, through support to the
      Kosovo Cadastre Agency (KCA) and the municipal cadastre offices (MCOs).

      As of May 26, 2011, the project has a disbursement rate of 73.6 percent. This
      extension will allow the Grant to be fully disbursed. This is a MS project that has
      been improving gradually its performance

      (1) The business environment component has achieved important progress. However,
          several important activities remain to be completed. The PDOs continue to be
          highly relevant for the Government’s efforts aimed at improving the investment
          climate in Kosovo. The number of registered businesses has exceeded the original
          target: 94 thousands in the latest ISR as opposed to 60 thousand in the original
          target. Progress in sub-components are summarized as following:

           •   Eight pilot Municipal Business Centers (MBCs) were opened in September
               2010. They provide services for: business registration, closing, changes to
               business registration, and give information and advice to businesses on
1
    A cumulative extension of more than 2 years requires RVP approval.
                                                     4
           obtaining permits and licenses. The MBCs are connected online with the
           central business registry in Prishtina, which is working very well. Within a 6
           months period, as of end-March 2011, these MBCs have so far provided: 750
           new business registrations, 508 changes in registration, 145 business closures,
           and 604 work permits.

       •   The roll-out phase of 14 additional MBCs is near completion. These MBCs
           are expected to open by end-May 2011. Three out of 14 have been opened so
           far and the government is planning the opening of Prizren MBC by May 27.

       •   Technical Assistance to Kosovo Business Registration Agency (KBRA) has
           progressed well. New and updated software security measures and systems
           are in place, ensuring greater security of data of KBRA. Additional equipment
           and upgrades to their software have been done to ensure better services and
           information flow.

       •   Technical Assistance to the MTI and the Investment Promotion Agency of
           Kosovo has progressed, with capacity building activities for IPAK staff and
           significant progress made in inspections review, and licensing and permits
           review.

   (2) The immoveable property rights component has progressed well with several key
       activities at or near completion, including the finalization of the series of
       Operational Manuals, completion of a training needs assessment, completion of
       the Building Cadastre Construction (BCC) in 4 pilot cities up to the public display
       procedure, completion of the Public Awareness Campaign (PAC) and submission
       to government of improved amendments to the Laws on Cadastre and on
       Immovable Property Rights Registration (IPRR). As a result of improvement in
       the system, time to register real estate transactions has been reduced from an
       average of 40 days to about 15 days, according to the latest ISR. Still short of the
       target of 10 days. This target is achievable in the context of the proposed
       extension. In addition, registered mortgages increased from 2,500 to almost 4,000
       according to the latest ISR. The target is 6,000. We acknowledge the need to be
       cautions on the attainability of this target as the real estate market is depressed
       worldwide.

The Ministry of Trade, the main counterpart for the Business Services Integration
component, has expressed its full commitment to the implementation of the project
components and achievement of objectives. New operational arrangements were put in
place to ensure bi-monthly review of procurement progress by the TTL, the procurement
officer, and the advisor to the Minister. The Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Local
Government Administration (MLGA) have also expressed their interest and commitment
in achieving project development objectives within the extended closing date. The
MLGA also appointed an advisor to work with team on the project.




                                            5
PROPOSED CHANGES

•   Closing date

As per the request from the Borrower, the current Closing Date of June 30, 2011 is
proposed to be extended to May 31, 2012 to ensure achievement of the PDOs and full
utilization of the project proceeds. The implementation schedule was adjusted to the
revised closing date.


•   Results/Indicators

        Some changes have been introduced to the results framework to reflect the
        overall dynamics of the business environment in Kosovo and particularly in the
        areas supported by the project since the project’s approval. These changes
        consist of: (i) Updating target dates to take into consideration the new closing
        date (ii) Adding two new PDO indicators that are important to better measure the
        project’s results (they are good proxies for measuring the improvement in
        business environment: “Number of administrative procedures for licenses and
        permits simplified and streamlined” and “Number of inspection bodies reduced”)
        (iii) Dropping two PDO Indicators and one intermediate results indicator. They
        are better measured by the new PDO Indicators and others left in the RF. The
        changes are reflected in Annex I.


•   Procurement

       The procurement plan was revised to reflect current procurement status of the
       planned activities and to ensure their completion by the new proposed project
       Closing Date of May 31, 2012.




                                           6
                                                                ANNEX 1:
                                                    Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                KOSOVO: BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TA PROJECT


Project Development Objective (PDO): To improve the business environment by reducing uncertainty of key regulatory processes, improving delivery of related services,
strengthening property rights, and increasing transparency and accountability of implementing institutions.

Revised Project Development Objective: Same

                                       D=Dropped                                            Cumulative Target Values**
                                                                                                                                                                 Responsibil
                                Core




                                       C=Continue    Unit of                                                                                      Data Source/
PDO Level Results Indicators*                                  Baseline    YR 1    YR 2        YR 3      YR4       YR5      YR6      Frequency                     for Data
                                       N= New        Measure                                                                                      Methodology
                                                                          (2006)   (2007)     (2008)    (2009)    (2010)   (2011)                                 Collection
                                       R=Revised
Indicator One:
Reduced regulatory
compliance costs of business                                                                                                                      Investment
measured by                                                                                                                          Enterprise     Climate
                                            C          %         5%       N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A      3.5%                                 Consultan
percentage of management                                                                                                              surveys     Enterprise
time spent on compliance                                                                                                                            Surveys
with business regulation

Indicator Two:
Number of
administrative                                                                                                                       Quarterly
                                            N          #        N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A       15
                                                                                                                                      reports
                                                                                                                                                     MTI         Consultan
procedures for licenses
and permits simplified
and streamlined
Indicator Three:
                                                                                                                                     Quarterly
Increased number of                         C          #       45,000     N/A        N/A       N/A     60,000      N/A     100,000                  KBRA            KBRA
                                                                                                                                      reports
registered businesses
Indicator Four:
                                                                                                                                          Quarterl
Number of inspection bodies              N          text      N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A      N/A        N/A          22                         MTI         Consultan
reduced                                                                                                                                   y reports
Indicator Five:
Increased access to finance                                                                                                                               Reports
                                                                                                                                          Quarterly
measured by number of                    C            #       2,510      N/A       N/A        N/A      N/A        N/A         6,000                     from local        KCA
                                                                                                                                           reports
registered mortgages, per                                                                                                                                 offices
year
                                                                          INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One): Improve the business environment by setting up MBCs to provide improved services to businesses, simplifying and streamlining
administrative procedures for licensing and permits, and reducing the number of inspection bodies
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): Revised

Intermediate Result indicator
One:
Number of municipalities                  D
adopting harmonized
licensing framework
Intermediate Result indicator
Two:                                                                                                                                    Quarterly
                                          R            #        0        N/A       N/A      N/A       10        N/A          25                          MTI          Consultan
Number of MBCs applying                                                                                                                  reports
new business standards
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Enhance Immoveable Property Rights by ensuring that : (i) the IPRR (Immovable Property Rights Registration) is efficient, accurat
and operated with reasonable transaction costs; (ii) the cadastre system is updated and maintained regularly through transactions to reflect the de-jure and real situation; (iii
building cadastre is established and used for multiple purposes including property tax, apartment registration, building improvement purposes; and (iv) registration services
are provided in a streamlined facility to increase transparency
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): Same

Intermediate Result indicator
One:
                                                                                                                                                       Reports on
Number of apartments                                                                                                                      Quarterly
                                         R            #         0        N/A       N/A        N/A      N/A        N/A        20,000                      project          PCO
measured and recorded, with                                                                                                                reports
                                                                                                                                                        progress
files completed and ready for
registration registered in the




                                                                               8
building cadastre

Intermediate Result indicator
Two:
Reduction of time to register
property transactions in the        # of                                                                 Quarterly     Reports
                                C          40 days   N/A          N/A      N/A     N/A   N/A   10 days                            PCO
IPPR in Prishtina and Ferizaj       days                                                                  reports    from MCOs
Municipal Cadastre Offices
(MCOs)

Intermediate Result Indicator
Three:
                                                                                                                       Reports
Number of transactions                                                                                   Quarterly
                                C    #      N/A      5,000       10,000   25,000   N/A   N/A   50,000                from local   KCA
registered in the IPRR, per                                                                               reports
                                                                                                                       offices
year

Intermediate Result Indicator
Four:                                                                                                    Quarterly     Reports
                                C    #      N/A      N/A          N/A      N/A     N/A   N/A     2                                PCO
Number of MCOs                                                                                            reports    from PCO
reengineered



.




                                                             9
                                 ANNEX 3:
                         Extension of Closing Date

                KOSOVO — BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TA PROJECT
                                 P088045

                                       IDA GRANT

                                  Restructuring Paper


1. The closing date for the project is proposed to be extended from June 30, 2011 to
   May 31, 2012, and the results framework is being revised to allow for a better
   measuring and monitoring of the project’s results. This will be the second
   extension of the project. The cumulative extension of the original Closing Date
   (February 28, 2010) is more than 2 years.

2. Although notable progress has been achieved, project development objectives
   cannot be completed by the current closing date of June 30, 2011. Project
   objectives remain achievable but more time is needed to complete several important
   activities. The business environment component has achieved notable progress with
   the launching of eight pilot MBCs, preparation for the roll-out phase of 14 MBCs,
   progress in inspection and licensing reviews, and technical assistance to KBRA and
   IPAK. The immovable property rights component has also progressed well with
   several key activities at or near completion, including the finalization of the series of
   Operational Manuals, completion of a training needs assessment, completion of the
   Building Cadastre Construction (BCC) in 4 pilot cities up to the public display
   procedure, completion of the Public Awareness Campaign (PAC) and submission to
   government of improved amendments to the Laws on Cadastre and on Immovable
   Property Rights Registration (IPRR).

3. The proposed extension is necessary to achieve project objectives and allow for a
   full disbursement of the grant. 73 percent of the project’s funds have been
   disbursed as of May 26, 2011. An updated procurement plan was prepared to ensure
   timely implementation of current activities and to include proposed new activities.
   The counterpart (the Ministry of Trade and Industry) has agreed to new operational
   arrangements to ensure bi-monthly review of procurement progress by the TTL, the
   procurement officer, and the advisor to the Minister. The new main activities
   proposed to be completed by end-May 2012 include:

       •   Improving and consolidating the functions of 22 MBCs, and setting up
           new MBCs in additional municipalities. The MBCs are not yet functioning
           as one-stop-shops (OSSs), where businesses can obtain the necessary
           paperwork in a streamlined and coordinated process in one single entity,
           rather than having to go to a number of central and local level government
           bodies. So far, MBCs are not issuing municipal level permits, nor are they
           facilitating the process of obtaining such permits with the relevant municipal
    departments. Following expected reforms for simplification of licensing,
    permits, and inspection procedures in the mid-term future, these MBCs should
    become a focal point for interactions with businesses and assist them with
    obtaining: (i) municipal level permits and inspection arrangements, requiring
    the commitment of other municipal departments; and (ii) central level permits
    and licenses, including obtaining the fiscal number, VAT number, customs
    number, and other licenses. In addition, the project will finance setting up a
    number of new MBCs (to be determined with the authorities) in some of the
    14 additional municipalities, some of which have been newly created.

•   Upgrading the pledge registry. The project will finance work on software
    and system upgrades as well as training, to be complemented by
    improvements in the legal and regulatory framework for the pledge registry
    (funded by the Balkans TA Facility). The project will finance a new server
    that is needed for the pledge registry, since the current one is outdated. It is
    expected that the number of pledge registrations will increase significantly
    when financial institutions will be able to conduct registrations and searches
    using an online system.

•   Developing a Strategy and Action Plan for inspections reform. The project
    will finance a Strategy and Action Plan for inspections reform, following the
    inspections review which revealed serious shortcomings of the inspection
    system that creates burdens for businesses.

•   Simplifying and streamlining administrative procedures for licensing and
    permits. The licensing review pointed out significant business costs and
    serious shortcomings of the transparency of the process for issuing licenses.
    The project will finance the simplification and streamlining of administrative
    procedures for licenses and permits.




                                     11
