The World Bank
FOt OMCIL USE ONLY
C H. AS-96- 7:;
eput Pie P-3898-TA
REPORT AID RECOADENDATrOJ
OF TRE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
TNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIlET ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
OW A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 26.2 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
PORT RERABILITATION PROJECT
November 8, 1984
I  his dome.d hw a zedbi il iu mi m  be  id by  diefp  inlr In d lb  tofue of
aU ofdi dmhs. lb emtm  owa meUuib be Noedwud widu  Wedd link uhwdIm. 



CURREC    EUIVA      a/S 
Currency Unit                                       shilling (TSh)
TSh  L00                                   US$ 0.06
US$ 1.00                     U             TSh 17.0
US$ 1.00                     U             SDR 0.9704
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRNYMS
DANIA        -        Danish International Developmet Agency
EAC          -        East African Comaaity
EAEC         -        East African Narbours Corporation
FDRIIDA      -        Finnish International Development Agency
mCiI                  Ministry of Communications and Works
WMEA                  Ministry of PlaniLng and Economic Affairs
NMC                   National MilLing Corporation
NORAD        -        Norwegian Agency for Development
ODA                   Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
SIDA                  Swedish International Development Authority
TAMA                  T anzania-Zambia Railways
THA.                  Tanzania Harbours Authority
TRC                   Tanzania Railways Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 to June 30       -
a/ As the Tanzania shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the USDollartTanzania
shilling exchange rate is subject to change. A rate of US$ 1.00 - TSh
17.0, which was the level set in the most recent exchange rate adjust-
ment of June 1984, was used for appraisal of this project. The
USDol1ar/SDR exchange rate used in this report is that of August 1,
1984.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
PORT R              PROJEc
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             United Republic of Tanzania.
Beneficiary:          Tanzania Harbours Authority (TEA).        -
Amount:               SDR 26.2 million (US$27 million equivalent).
Terms:                Standard.
Re-Lending Terms:    Total credit vill be on lent to TRA, for 20 years
including 5 years of grace at 112 per annum. THA to
bear foreign exchange risk.
Co-financing:         The United Republic of Tanzania is arranging co-
financing as follows: grants from the Governments of
Denmark-DANIDA (US$7.9 million equivalent); Finland-
FINNIDA (US$6.8 million equivalent); Italy (US$3.8
million equivalent); Netherlands (US$10.3 million
equivalent); Norway-NORAD (USS2.8 million equiva-
lent); and United Kingdow-ODA (US$0.3 million equiva-
lent).
ProJect ObJectives    The proposed project is designed to provide for the
and Description:    rehabilitation and modernization of the Port of Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania's major port which also serves as
an important regional port fo. several neighboring
countries (Burundi, Malawi, Rwanda> Zaire, Zambia).
The proposed project would provide special container
handling facilities and equipment, replace some
deteriorated general cargo equipment, modernize grain
handling facilities, rehabilitate lighterage facili-
ties and the oetroleum jetty, repave sections of
berths, and provide for a review of additional
rehabilitation requirpments. technical assistance and
training, and consult  cy services.
The container and grain facilities would lover trans-
port costs for Tanzania and land-locked neighbors,
while the jetty, lighterage and paving investments
are necessary to restore facilities to acceptable
condition. Technical assistance and training would
improve the Tanzania Harbours Autbority's ability to
train its personnel, and improve its operational and
maintenance capability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by reciients only in the performance of |
her oficid dute Its contents may not otherwise bcedisosed without Wodd Bank authoiatio



Traffic could fail to increase as forecast; however,
container traffic is likely to continue to grow
rapidly and grain and petroleum imports are unlikely
to decrease significantly. ITstitUtional beDefits
may  aateriaLi-e only slowly, but training and
technical assitstce should reduce this risk. No
major physical risks are anticipated in implementing
the proposed project beyond those that are normally
expected in the construction of a project of this
type and for which provision has been made by use of
consultants.
Estimated Project Costs:                        Local  Foreign       Total
--US$ m11ions-
Components:
Advance Civil Works                          3.0      1.7         4.7
Main Project Civil Works                    11.9     24.4        36.3
Main Project Equipment                       0.6     17.6        18.2
Technical Assistance/Trailing               0.9       3.1         4.0
Consultative Services a/                    0.7       2.5         3.2
Base Cost (mid-1984 prices)               17.1    49.3         66.4
Contingencies:
Physical                                     1.9      2.1         4.0
Price                                       13.0      7.6        20.6
Total Project Cost b/                     32.0      59.0        91.0
Financing Plan:                                 Local  Foreign       Total
USS ioions-
Sources:
IDA                                          -       27.0        27.0
Co-financiers                                -       32.0        32.0
TEHA                                       32.0        -         32.0
Total Project Financing                  32.0      59.0        91.0
a/ Includes refinancing of a US$950,000 PPF advance.
b/ Identifiable taxes and duties amount to US$9.4 million equivalent and
the total project cost, net of taxes, is about US$81.6 million
equivalent.



Estisated Dissements:            -             I$ SllU
3DA FY   1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Annual                        1.4   8.6   8.8   6.9   1.0   0.3
Caumlative                    1.4  10.0  18.8  25.7  26.7  27.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Abot  33X.
Staff  Mppraisal Report:   Report No. 4212-TA, dated November 8, 1984.
IBRD 16748R1 and 1667511.
.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A PORT REHABILTrION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomnendation on a proposed
*        credit to the United Republic of Tanznana of SDR 26.2 million (US$27.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Port Rehabili-
tation Project. These funds would be re-lent to the Taniania Harbours
Authority (THA) at an annual interest rate of 112 for 20 years, including 5
years of grace. In addizion, the United Republic of Tanzania is arranging
co-financing from the Governments of Denmark (DANIDA), Finland (FINNIDA),
Italy, Netherlands, Norway (NORAD), and the United Kingdom (ODA).
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.       An economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 5019-TA), based on
the work of an economic mission which visited the country in September/
October 1983, was issued in August 1984. A summary of social and economic
data is in Annex I.
Background
3.       At Independence in 1961, Tanzania was one of the poorest
countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence agriculture
and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest industrial base,
which accounted for less than 5% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and a
very small number of educated and trained personnel.  For the first six
years after Independence, the Government's development objectives resembled
those of many other less developed countries, stressing growth in per
capita income and national self-sufficiency in skilled manpower, based on
market forces and capital intensive agricultural projects. This approach
had a number of drawbacks, such as bigh investment costs in the
agricultural sector. It led, in the Government's view, to unacceptable
economic and social conditions, such as widening income differentials and
unequal opportunities for advancement in the rural areas. In response to
this situation, the national development strategy was reassessed in :967.
The new priorities, enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy
statements, were directed toward establishing a socialist society, with
emphasis on broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development
efforts, and mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with
1I Part I of this report is unchanged from Part I of the Report and
Recoummendation of the President for the Fourth Technical Assistance
Project (Report No. P-3731-TA) of August 16, 1984.



- 2 -
guidance from the Party, was expected to play the leading role, especially
in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the
late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and
finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of
ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of Government (1972),
and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Since Independence,
primary school enrollment increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose
by almost 5 years, and access to safe water increased in both the rural and
urban areas. GDP grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment
averaged 24% of GDP from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization
improved with recurrent revenues rising as a proportion of GDP from 15X in
1967/68 to 19% in the mid-1970s. However, the productive sectors grew
slowly and thte rate of return on new investments (which were concentrated
on the industry and transport sectors) was poor. Perhaps the principal
disappointment was in agriculture, the dominant sector of the economy,
which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to 1973. Growth was also
uneven among regions and precluded any narrowing of rural-urban income
differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress toward the Africanization of
key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower requirements
remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic investment
and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By 1973, the
issues that were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the later 1970s
and early 1980s were becoming clear. How quickly could a country with
limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? How long could the country afford the costs, in
terms of efficiency and incentives, often resulting from the Government's
emphasis on equity? What could be done to improve the growth rate of the
monetized, productive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania, which had a detri-
mental effect on agricultural production. Agricultural production also was
affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this time (decentrali-
zation and villagization), and foodgrain production was reduced. The
Government was forced into the world market, making large purchases of
foodgrains for cash. Export crop production also fell during this period
and the barter terms of trade dropped by about one-third during these two
years.  As a result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million
in 1973 to around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the
recurrent budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from
TSh 416 million in 1973/74 to TSh 1,061 million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and received some assistance from the IMF
and a program loan from the Bank Group. Under the Government program,
import levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government devel-
opment expenditures were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and, at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of



drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC, and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NHC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted - declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and produc-
tive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infra-
structure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance, and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 1978, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979, and the flooding and drought in
different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments deficit.
The Government built up major arrears on its import payments for the first
time since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into deficit as
expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% and revenues improved by only 10Z
from 1977/78 to 1978/79. As a result, Government borrowing from the
banking system increased from TSh 600 million in 1977/78 to more than TSh
3,000 million in 1978(79. Such borrowing was the major factor in money
supply growth, which exceeded 53Z in this period.
8.        The economy became troubled by major problems of falling
production in agriculture and industry and declining factor productivity.
In the mid 1970s, average GDP and per capita income growth rates were
similar to those of other Sub-Saharan African countries. The average GDP
grew by 5.2% per annum between 1970 and 1978. With population growing at
3.3% annually, per capita GDP increased at an average rate of about 2%
annually. Between 1978 and 1980, growth in aggregate output slowed to 3.3%
per annum. In 1981,falling agricultural and industrial production caused
GDP to decline by 1.72; the rate of decllne accelerated to 3.2% in 1982.
c        Output in subsistence agriculture and manufacturing, which had experienced
high growth rates of 6X to 7% per annum before 1978, fell by 8% and 16.6%
per annum respectively over the next four years, while output in the
services sector continued to grow steadily.  The services sector, which
accounted for only 9% of value added in 1966, now accounts for more than
25%. Output in the services sector reflects remuneration rather than
output, and trends in subsistence production are at best guess-estimates
with potentially large margins of error.  For these reasons, trenJs in the
rate of growth of GDP are in some doubt, but the shift away from a monetary
to an informal economy is confirmed by the decline in the share of output
marketed through official channels.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20-40Z of domestic investment. However, the depen-



- 4 -
dence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60X of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975.
10.         Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 83Z of total employment, 45Z of GDP, and 80Z of exports.
The long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept
pace with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years
as the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s)
has been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by
the limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of
rural development has continuously been highlighted in Government state-
ments, including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not
always been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural
sector or in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction
of the Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to
emphasize the transformation of the institutional structure of rural devel-
opment (through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement
in the sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production
directly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly,
without careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use incentives to influence the pattern of agricul-
tural production. Available manpower, however, is still stretched rather
thinly throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role
assigned to the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for
policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Road, rail,
and water services have declined owing to a lack of spare parts, poor main-
tenance, and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, transport bottle-
necks, and external shocks described above have all contributed to the
severe deterioration in the balance of payments since 1979. By 1982,
export volumes had fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-
1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, the terms of trade have declined by
40% since the coffee boom of 1977 due to a sharp increase in import costs,
especially for petroleum, at a time when the overall level of export prices
has been rising very slowly. Owing to these adverse developments, the pur-
chasing power of Tanzania's exports in 1982 was more than one-third lower
than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. The basic adjustment to
the high current account deficits following the second oil shock was
through a cutback in imports. By 1982, import volumes were 32% below the
level in 1978 and 24% below the level prevailing in the early 1970s. Aid
inflows have been maintained, but they increasingly have been tied to
specific projects. Currently, food, oil and debt service account for
almost all of export earnings resulting in a severe shortage of foreign



exchange for many categories of imports for which aid resources are not
available.  As a result, Tanzania has built up almost US$400 million of
import arrears, and has drawn down all of its reserves.
12.       Given the poor prospects for international commodity prices as
well as the limited scope for further external aid, there is little
immediate prospect for an improvement in the balance of payments. This
continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably having a
debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports reducing production
and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in further falls in exports
and available foreign exchange.  This vicious circle will be difficult to
break unless there is a substantial injection of foreign exchange and major
improvements in producer incentives, parastatal operations, import alloca-
tions, promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall government
planning and budgeting.
13.       In spite of intensive discussions with the Government in 1980 and
1981, it was difficult to focus on specific corrective measures needed for
structural adjustment. In the absence of a comprehensive reform program,
an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (Credit 1133-TA) in the amount of
US$50 million was negotiated in March 1981 to support a limited but sharply
defined set of measures intended to assist the Government in arresting the
decline in earnings from the country's major export crops. During
negotiations of this Program Credit, agreement was also reached on a
Memorandum of Understanding on Follow-Up Measures. These included more
restraint and selectivity in the public investment program, more emphasis
in the recurrent budget on the operations and maintenance needs of the
economy, improved foreign exchange budgeting, reexamination of the roles
(particularly purchasing mandates) of the State-owned crop authorities,
introduction of more payment-by-results schemes in industry, and review of
subsidy and cost recovery arrangements in the public sector. A special
agricultural account was established to channel imports into agriculture
with suprisingly little friction among the institutions concerned, although
the Government was not able to meet its own obligation to contribute US$50
million to the account. The Government also agreed that an independent
Advisory Group would be established to assist in preparing a comprehensive
program of economic rehabilitaticn and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. A large number of its recommendations were adopted
by the Government and incorporated into a Structural Adjustment Program,
which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of important
initiatives and proposals. The development budget was substantially cut
back in 1982/83 for the second year in a row to release resources for the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy. Agricultural producer
prices were adjusted in 1983/84 and in 1984/85, which initially maintained
them broadly constant in real terms and more recently increased them in
real terms. The Government also announced its intention to relax
restrictions on interregional trade. It also opened up the marketing of
some crops (mainly minor grains such as millet) to anyone interested in
conducting such trade.
15.       In the 1984/85 budget submitted to Parliament on June 14, 1984,
the Government announced a series of new measures. The most recent



6-
measures include a major exchange rate adjustment (36%), the second in two
years, an increase in agricultural producer prices of between 46% and 55%,
and an initiation of a program to improve the efficiency and productivity
of agricultural parastatals. Preliminary analysis shows that these pricing
changes are sufficient to allow agrlcultural parastatals as a group to
break even while resulting in an increase of 5X in real incomes of export
crop producers. There is a serious attempt to make the NMC, the parastatal
responsible for grain marketing, financially viable through an increase in
the consumer price for maize and a decontrol of the price of maize flour
(sembe). These measures together should eliminate the need for budgetary
transfers to the parastatals, which had amounted to nearly 11% of total
recurrent expenditures in 1982/83. The measures also include politically
sensitive actions such as the removal of subsidies on fertilizer and
insecticides and the introduction of fees for secondary schoolr to cover a
part of the costs.
16.       The 1984/85 budget is thus bold in its attempts to reverse
previous economic policies. However, the success of the budget in meeting
its financial targets will, to a large extent, be contingent on
availability of additional external assistance. Similarly, the supply
response in agriculture to the improved incentives is likely to be weak in
the absence of an increase in import capability that could finance
incentive goods and agricultural inputs.
17.       Tanzania has not had access to IMF facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Despite four rounds of discussions (in May, June,
August, and October 1982), no agreement could be reached on a reform
program. Following the announcement of devaluation and other new measures
on June 14, 1934 (para. 15), the Government and the IMF have resumed
discussions. Senior officials of the Ministry of Finance visited
Washington in early July to elaborate upon the basis for the new measures.
An IMF mission visited Tanzania in October to discuss the outline of a
possible IMF program.
18.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to fitie years. A halt in the decline in per capita GDP
will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this situation, continued emphasis will be needed on export performance and
concerted effort will be required to improve the level of capacity utiliza-
tion and efficiency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without
jeopardizing vital food production.
19.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit. during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cantiot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional



foreign assistance. Possible sources for this assistance include deferred
payment arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying
countries, additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and
multilateral sources, and continued movement toward non-project
assistance.
External Debt
20.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratios have historically been less than 10X. In recent years,
there has been somewhat greater reliance on non-concessional borrowing.
This borrowing, combined with falling exports, has resulted in an increase
in the debt service ratio, which was estimated in 1982 to have been about
20%. The Bank Group is assisting the Government in carrying out a complete
review of its external debt and improving its debt management system. Thio
effort, which is still underway, has revealed that the reports on publicly
guaranteed debt are incomplete and projected debt service payments may rise
sharply as a number of old loans begin to fall due and coverage of the debt
information improves. Unless Tanzania's poor export pe-formance is re-
versed, the debt service ratio over the next several ; ars may be signifi-
cantly higher than indicated above. Based on existing data, the Bank Group
held 38X of Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed in 1982
(IBRD 13%) and obligations to the Bank Group accounted for 14% of total
debt service.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA2/
21.       Tanzania joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation in 1962. Beginning with an IDA credit for education in
1963, 58 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of these on Third Window terms,
amounting to US$1,116.5 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda through
their association in the former East African Community.  IFC investments in
Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties
and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to
the Government. Another IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap manufac-
turing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1978, an
investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was approved in
May 1979 and in June 1984 an investment of US$2.8 million was approved for
the Amboni sisal rehabilitation project. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments to Tanzania and
the East African Community organizations as of September 30, 1984.
2/ Part II of this report is substantially unckanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President ror the Fourth Technical
Assistance Project (Report No. P-3731-TA) of August 16, 1984.



- 8 -
22.      Bank Group lending in Tanzania, ha been centered on:  (i) *grk-
culture; (il) transport and coi      ano; () 4dustry; amd (iv) educa-
tios and manpower development. Sice FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
focussed primarily on the r     liton d use of existing productive
facilities and the itrodiuction of infrastructure and services (such as
poer getion   d eduation facilities) of long term use to the
economy. Projects have been designed to miniie new demands on the
GCverment's recurrent. developMent, and foreign exchange budgets; have
been centered on already experienced or financially healthy institutions;
and have been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general
supply difficulties in the economy. They have included considerable tech-
nical assistance and training for better    teacend use of existing
capital facilities and more effective resource allocation in the economy.
tending duriue FY8Z-FY85 along these lines included a second petroleum
exploration project, tbird and fourth technical assistance projects (focus-
sed on key manpower gaps in the agricultural sector), a rehabilita-
tion project for the Dar es SaLasm sewerage system, a coal engineering
project  a hydroelectric power project, and the proposed port rehabilita-
tion project.
23.      A small number of other projects may be proposed in the agricul-
tural, energy, aad transport sectors during the next three years. A sixth
highway project, Involving mainly maintenance and reconstruction (particu
larly sections of the Tanzania-Zambia bighway), and an agriculture rehabi-
litation project are under preparation. However, the design and implemen-
tation of viable projects in the productive sectors of the economy,
especially agriculture and industry, will remain problematical in the
absence of a wide-ranging economic adjustment program.
24.       In addition to finacing specific projects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance on three occasions in support of Govern-
ment efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties. The first
such Credit was made in 1974. the second in 1977, and the most recent, an
Export Rebabilitation Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April 1981.
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last five years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficalties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for such purchases have been adequate. External financing agencies have
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
covered by project budgets; however, it is impossible to cushion projects
completely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the
economic crisis. Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58 million in FY78
to US$115.9 million in FY82 and then declined to US$71.2 million in FY84.
A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates
that Tanzanian disbursements have been about average for the Region, rang-
ing as a proportion >f outstanding commitnents from 25.5% in FY78 to 21.4Z
in FY84 (compared with 24.5Z and 23.0Z in the same years for the Region as
a whole).
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at



- 9 -
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank Group staff
agreed to recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several
projects experiencing persistent implementation problems. Intensive
supervision and, in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Credtt
1370-TA), tiiwly assistance from co-financiers have already had some reme-
dial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on imple-
wentation have been most severe, there have been improvements in some
projects. However, considerable work remains to be done in improving
project implementation and disbursements. The Country Implementation
Review scheduled for Nay 1984, had to be deferred because of changes in the
Government, but discussions were held on further rationalization of the
project portfolio. The next Review is planned for Spring, 1985.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
27.       The Tanzanian transport system is small in relation to the size
of the country, but is designed to connect all the main centers of economic
activity. It comprises 50,000 km of roads (of which about 2,500 km are
paved) and has two separate railway systems, one of which connects Dar es
Salaam with the west and north, and one which connects Zambia to Dar es
Salaam. There are three international seaports under the control of the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA) of which Dar es Salaam is the most
important by far, plus the separate Zanzibar ports. The transport system
has considerable regional impcrtance. The Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA)
and the Tan-Zam highway provide Zambia's main outlet to the sea, while the
central line of the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) provides the most
important outlet route for Burundi, and also for eastern Zaire. About 50Z
of Dar es Salaam port traffic is for Zambia, Burundi and Zaire. The main
problem with the system is poor maintenance. The degree of the problem
varies across sub-sectors, but the underlying causes are the same -
scarcity of skilled and experienced p-ersonnel, inadequate budgetary
allocations or generation of internal revenues and shortages of spare parts
and materials. The main sub-sectors and Bank Group involvement in them are
discussed briefly below.
Highways and Trucking
28.       Highway maintenance has been poor, partly due to diversion of
maintenance equipment and staff to other activities during Tanzanian
involvement in the war against Uganda. Since then, the ongoing Fifth
Highway Project (Credit 876-TA of March, 1979) has assisted in improving
the staffing situation and financing urgently required materials. This
assistance, including further organizational improvements, is expected to
be continued under a proposed highways rehabilitation project currently
under preparation. Budget allocations for maintenance have declined in
real terms in recent years, but the Government is now takivg steps to
reverse the trend. In trucking, shortages of spares and tares, in turn
caused by the lack of foreign exchange, have rendered the availability and
utilization of equipment well below normal levels. The problem is being
addressed partly by EEC assistance to rehabilitate crop authority vehicles,
while the Bank Group is assisting in extending the capacities of the



- 10 -
regional parastatal transport companies through the Trucking Industry
Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (Credit 743-TA of November, 1977).
The needs of the private sector have not yet been directly addressed but
guidance is expected from a study on the efficiency of road transport
financed by the Bank Group and due to commence in late FY85.
Railways
29.       The Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) provides rail services
for all Tanzania except the southwest which is served by the Tanzania-
Zambia Railways (TAZARA). The TRC is receiving considerable assistance
from a number of sources, primarily bilateral and particularly Cnnada,
which has in recent years funded equipment and technical assistance and
training. Benefits from this assistance are only slowly being realized.
Efficiency in TRC is still low and its financial situation is weak. The
attention of TRC and the Government was focussed on this at a co-donors
technical meeting initiated by the Government and held in November 1983,
where the main emphasis was placed on better use of existing assets and
less on the purchase of new ones. It was agreed that there was need for
immediate improvements in TRC's financial situation particularly through
appropriate tariff policy. These ideas were further discussed at a
subsequent co-donors meeting in May 1984. Bank Group assistance is likely
to be confined to a small amount of technical assistance to complement that
already being provided by other donors.
30.       Since comencing operations in 1976, TAZARA has been unable to
handle traffic demand due to a precipitate decline in locomotive avail-
ability. Provision of new locomotives (financed by the Federal Republic of
Germany) has arrested and partly reversed this decline, but underlying
managerial and staffing weaknesses which are even greater than in TRC,
remain to be addressed. These are being studied under a Bank Group
financed study which is now under review in the Bank. This recommends
technical assistance and training combined with limited investment directed
at addressing specific weaknesses, mainly in mechanical engineering and
accounting.
Ports
31.      The THA administers the country's seaports of which Dar es
Salaam, accounting for 90% of traffic, is the most important. The Dar port
has been expanded rapidly from 3 berths in 1968 to the present 11, under
the former East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC). The physical condi-
tion of the berths, particularly of the never ones, is good, but the paving
behind the transit sheds has been inadequately maintained. Also, the
lighterage berth, which provides a safety valve when traffic demand on the
main quay is high, is in poor condition.
32.       The port is essentially designed for conventional general cargo
operations, employing standard shore cranes with limited capacity, and with
open space inadequate to handle the rapidly increasing container traffic.
The important grain traffic destined for both Zambia and Tanzania is
handled by an outdated and inefficient system of grab or suction discharge
to open trucks. Operations are thus slow and grain loss and damage signi-
ficant.



- 11 -
33.       The port has handled a total of between 3.5 and 4.3 mllion tons
of traffic in recent years, of which petroleum traffic was between 1.4 and
1.8 million tons. Container traffic has grown from zero in 1977 to about
200,000 tons in 1982. Total non-petroleum traffic is expected to grow
quite slowly from about 2.0 million tons to 2.8 million tons by 1992, with
container traffic increasing much more rapidly to 1.1 million tons.
34.       Dar es Salaam port is still essentially geared to general cargo
operations which has resulted in operations which are very labour intensive
with the port employing about 9,300 staff of which about 6.600 (71%) are in
operations. However, port productivity is at a reasonable level, and has
been improving in recent years, and congestion which led to serious delays
to shipping and in movement of goods out of the port in the late 1970's has
largely disippeared as a result of the combination of increased containeri-
zation and stagnation in total traffic volumes. Also, as a result of the
general cargo nature of THA's operations, training and manpower development
has not been given high priority, although a training center has been built
and a limited number of courses are conducted.
Summary
35.       In sunmary, the main issues that need addressing urgently in the
transportation sector, other than those directly covered by this proposed
project are: (i) strengthening of effective sector planning, (ii) Improve-
ments to the highway network through reconstruction with improved periodic
and routine maintenance as necessary, (iii) rehabilitation of the trucking
industry, particularly private, primarily through the provision of spare
parts, and (iv) increasing the effective capacity and reducing the costs of
operation of the railway system. The Government has accepted that there is
a need to improve sector planning and the MCW planning unit is to be
strengthened with Danish assistance. It is formally committed to pursuing
a policy of encouraging public trucking but is increasingly aware of the
need to assist the private sector, and in association with the Bank Group
is making attempts to deal with the highway maintenance issue. Interna-
tional assistance will be sought to further improve TRC and attempts are
being made to improve TAZARA, although a systematic approach to the deeper
rooted problems of managerial and staff weaknesses has yet to emerge. The
*        Bank has encouraged the strengthening of transport planning and has assis-
ted in developing public sector trucking and in supporting highway mainten-
ance.
Previous Bank Group Lending and Strategy in the Sector
36.       The general strategy of past Bank Group sector operations, parti-
cularly since the breakup of the East Africa Community in 1977, has been
to:
(i)   attempt to increase the Government's capability to deter-
mine priorities within and across transport sub-sectors,
both in capital investment proposals and in the distribu-
tion of resources between investment and maintenance; and
(ii)  assist in the identification of priority investments, and
support their execution through the Bank Group's lending
program.



- 12 -
37.       The Bank Group has assisted in financing seven projects in
Tanzania concerned with roads and road transport: (a) IDA Credit 48-TA
(US$14.0 million) in 1964 for construction of various road sections total-
ling 860 km; supplemented by Credit 115-TA (US$3.0 million) in 1968; (b)
IDA Credit 142-IA (US$15.5 million) and Bank Loan 586-TA CUS$7.0 million)
supplemented by a US$7.5 million Sweiish Credit in 1969 for highway con-
struction; (c) IDA Credit 265-TA (US$6.5 mUlion) in 1971 for construction
of a main road in the south east and betterment of selected feeder roads;
(d) IDA Credit 507-TA (US$10.2 million) in 1974 for improving the mainten-
ance of primary roads and for carrying out a study of the road transport
industry; (e) IDA Credit 743-TA (US$15.0 million) in 1977 for a trucking
industry rehabilitation and improvement project, a-rising out of a road
transport industry study under the previous project; (f) IDA Credit 876-TA
(US$20.5 million) in M-.rch 1979 for impro"ing the matenance of trunk
roads and f-r initiating a pilot program for regional road maintenance; and
(g) IDA Export Rehabilitation Credit 1133-TA (US$50.0 million) in 1981
which provided inter alia, for the procurement of spare parts and tires for
the trucks owned by parastatal companies transporting export crops. The
first four hfghway projects have been completed with limited success in the
achievement of project objectives. The Bank Andit Reports note on the
first three that the physical targets were mostly achieved in that the
civil works components were completed although, in the case of the third
project, rather late and at considerably increased costs, adversely
affecting the economic rate of return. Furthermore, institutional
development and training of staff were unsuccessful because the lighway
mantenance units which were developed and trained were discontinued.
Attention is now increasingly directed to ensuring continuity and ongoing
training.
38.       The Bank has also participated in the development of railways ±z
Tanzania through the East African Community. In 1955 Loan 110-EA (US$24.0
million) was made to the East African High Commission to cover in part, the
preparation of development plans for the railways of the East African Rail-
ways and Harbours Administration. In 1970, Loan 674-EA (US$42.0 miLlion)
was approved for the East African Railways to assist in financing right of
way improvements, rolling stock, materials and equipment. Both these
projects were completed satisfactorily. The Bank has participated in
financing three port projects, through the former East African Comunnity             e
(EAC), which included improvements to ports in Tanzania. In 1965, Loan
428-EA (US$26.0 million) was approved to provide assistance in financing
railway and harbor improvements through the then East African Railways and
Harbours Administration for use, in part, at Dar es Salaam. The project
was satisfactorily completed in 1971. Loan 638-EA (US$35.0 million), of
July 1969 provided financial assistance through the then East African
Harbours Corporation (EAHC, established in June 1969 to operate the harbors
of the three member countries of the East African Community), a portion of
which financed improvements to Dar es Salaam port. Loan 865-EA (US$26.5
million), of November 1972, was again to the EAHC for, inter alia, assist-
ance in financing further works and modernization at Dar es Salaam. These
projects have been completed and an Audit Report (PPAR) covering the last
two has been issued. The PPAR points out that despite costs overruns (30Z)
and implementation delays, (2-3 years) the two projects can be considered
successful since the additions to physical capacity provided facilities
essential to the foreign trade of Kenya and Tanzania and the neighboring



- 13 -
land-locked countries; however, they had limited effect on productivity,
managerial and operational aspects of the ports. The PPAR suggests that
future projects should place special emphasis on productivity, manpower
development and on the maintenance of facilities and equipment. These are
being addressed in the proposed project. In addition, an Engineering
Credit (S-24-TA) for US$2.5 million was approved in February 1980 to
finance preparation of the proposed project, and a Project Preparation
Facility advance (US$950,000) was approved in March 1983.
39.       In order to strengthen the weak transport planning capability in
Tanzania and after several years of preparation of a program for establi,h-
ment of a Transport Planning Unit (TPU) in MCW, agreement has been reached
on the objectives and staffing required, including technical assistance.
External funds for the TPU are being provided by the Government of Denmark
and an action program to strengthen the unit bas been drawn up. This lack
of planning capacity together with previously ratber uncoordinated multila-
teral and bilateral assistance to the transport sector has dictated that a
step-by-step approach be adopted in Bank Group assistance. Briefly, after
basic assistance in highway maintenince and trucking has been provided, the
port requirements are being addressed to be followed by specific road
rehabilitation assistance, and as an extension of the regional emphasis of
the port project, prospective assistance to TAZARA may be considered.
Involvement with TRC, which is already receiving considerable bilateral
assistance, will be limited to key areas of technical assistance, and any
future assistance to the trucking sector is expected to be within the con-
text of road rehabilitation assistance. No involvement with Air Tanzania
is contemplated. This broad strategy, with its emphasis on rehabilitation
and maintenance and increased donor coordination, will, of course, be kept
under review particularly as the TPU begins to produce results.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      The proposed project was first appraised in November/December
1981. Subsequently a mission visited Tanzania in July 1982 to finalize
project scope. The relatively long time between appraisal and negotiations
was due primarily to the time required to arrange the co-financing and, to
a lesser extent, to prepare the engineering and bid documents.  The prepa-
ration of the project was partly financed under an engineering credit
(S-24-TA) of US$2.5 million approved in February 1980 and an advance of
-         US$950,000 under a Project Preparation Facility.  Negotiations were held in
Washington from July 24-31, 1984. The Tanzanian delegation was headed by
Mr. Gilman Rutihinda, Principal Secretary for Finance. A Credit and
Project Summary is at the front of this report. Supplemental project data
are in Annex III. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled -T?.tzania - Port
Rehabilitation Project- Report No. 4212-TA, dated November 8, 1984 has been
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The objectives of the project are to provide facilities and
equipment to THA to enable the Dar es Salaam port to cater efficiently for



- 14 -
the rapid containerization c i general cargo traffic, substitute modern
grain handling capability fot the present obsolete system, improve the
skills and thus the capability of the TEA staff through a manpower training
program aided by technical assistance, and to rehabilitate the oil jetty
which is at present in unsafe condition. These objectives, which focus
attention on priority rehabilitation in a cost effective manner, are con-
sistent with the underlying objectives in the Tanzanian transport secto-.
The project will also preserve Dar es Salanm's role as a major gateway port
to Zambia, Burundi, Malawi, eastern Zaire and Rwanda.
42.       It is important to emphasize the key role played in the transport
sector by the port of Dar es Salaam. Dar es Salsam is the focal point for
te two main transport arteries (TRC and TAZARA) wbich not only serve
Tanzania but also several of its neighboring countries. Modern shipping
development, particularly containerization, favors concentration on a
limited number of ports, and Dar es Salaam's dominant position in Tanzania
is likely to be reinforced. Its international role, particularly in serv-
ing Zambia and thus generating foreign exchange earnings is, however,
sensitive to the quality of service provided. The transformation from a
traditional general cargo port to a modern, medium sized, efficient con-
tainer port cannot be achieved without significant investment. Without
this investment, which is covered by the proposed project, the full bene-
fits from investment in other transport sub-sectors, notably the two rail-
way systems, will not be fully realized. Thus the port project is an
essential complement to the other measures being undertaken to revitalize
the transport sector and, through that, facilitate the flow of goods within
and through the country. The thrust of the project, with emphasis firmly
placed on rehabilitation and on increased efficiency in the use of existing
facilities, is also fully in line with Bank Group strategy towards
Tanzania.
43.       The main component of the project is the conversion of the exist-
ing general cargo berths 10 and 11, and the open berth presently employed
to handle containers (berth 9) to a purely container handling facility.
This will involve the realignment of rail track (both TRC and TAZARA
systems), installation of gantry crane rails, paving, removal and
re-erection of the transit shed. A new roadway from the TAZARA copper
depot to bypass the future container facility will be built.
44.       The project would also provide for:
(i)   equipment to facilitate the operations of the proposed
container terminal. This will comprise two quayside
gantry cranes, one rail mounted gantry crane for transfer
of containers from the stacking area to rail wagons, six
rubber tired gantry cranes for movement of containers
within the stacking area and tractors and trailers for
movement of containers from the quayside to the stacking
area;
(ii)   replacement of general cargo handling equipment (forklift
trucks, tractors and trailers, mobile cranes);



- 15 -
(iii) a new facility to increase the rate of discharge of grain
ships, to reduce the loss and damage to grain in handling
and provide storage capacity within the port area. The
facility would consist of a combination of mobile
pneumatic extraction equipment and hoppers, and metal
silos which would enable grain ships to be discharged at
about four times the present rate, and virtually eliminate
loss and damage to grain;
(iv)   rehabilitation of the Kurasini petroleum products
terminal;
(v)   a study to review additional rehabilitation needs (spare
parts for cranes, forklift trucks, tractors) of TEA's
existing facilities; and
(vi)   training and technical assistance.
Project Implementation
45.       TRA would be responsible for the implementation of the project.
Further assistance would be provided by consultants and the project
coordinator provided under the project, whose appointment, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Credit Agreement). In order to
supervise the civil works of the project and to assist with procurement,
THA has retained the services of engineering consultants whose qualifica-
tions and experience are satisfactory to the Association (Bertlins of the
United Kingdom), and who were responsible for project preparation over a
period of approximately three years. The consultants' performance to date
has been satisfactory and they are closely familiar with the port, and
other ports on the east coast of Africa.
46.       A detailed training and technical assistance program covering the
main areas of activity (engineering maintenance, operations and management
information) has been prepared and agreed between TEA and the Bank Group.
THA would commence implementing its training program by December 31, 1985
(Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement). THA would recruit all
*         required technical assistance personnel on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Equipment will be provided for the Bandari (Port) Training College, the
staff of the college will be strengthened through about 80 man months of
technical assistance and about 170 man months of technical assistance will
be provided within the THA organization and Dar es Salaam port. This
includes 36 man months for the project coordinator (para. 45).
47.       The bid documents have already been prepared by the consultants
for all components of the project and bids for the main civil works to be
financed by the Association have been received. Construction is expected
to begin in early 1985 on the main civil works. Prior to commencement of
the major civil works, essential preliminary works on rehabilitation of the
lighterage terminal would be initiated. This work would have the objec-
tive of providing capacity for traffic diverted from the main berths while
the container terminal is being constructed, and in the longer term,
accommodating surges in traffic of a seasonal and cyclical nature. The



- 16 -
Kurasini Oil Terminal requires immediate major rehabilitation, including
renewal of the firefighting system, to meet modern and safe standards. The
rehabilitation of the Ubungo inland clearance depot is also necessary to
enable containers to be removed quickly from the main port area and should
be undertaken as soon as possible. The study (with consultant assistance)
of TRA's additional rehabilitation needs would be completed by July 31,
1985 (Section 2.09 of draft Project Agreement). The project would be
implemented over a period of five years and would be completed by end-1989.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
48.       The total cost of the project, including physical and price con-
tingencies (taxes and duties are estimated at US$9.4 million equivalent) is
estimated at US$91.0 million. Cost estimates are based on received bids
for the major civil works contract, combined with knowledge of specific
port development projects in the region and current manufacturer quotations
for equipment. Total physical contingencies of about 6% of the base cost
have been provided.
49.       Price contingencies on the base costs plus physical contingencies
have been provided for local costs on the basis of annual increases of 30X
for 1985, 25% for 1986 and 1987, and 20% for 1988 and 1989 reflecting the
expectation that recent devaluation of the Tanzania shilling will filter
through into cost increases over the next several years. For foreign
costs, rates of 8.0% (1985), 9.0% (1986, 1987, 1988) and 7.5% (1989) have
been employed. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$59.0 million equivalent or 64% of total project costs.
50.       The proposed credit of US$27.0 million would finance 45% of the
total foreign exchange costs and be utilized to finance the full foreign
exchange component of the container terminal and associated civil works,
and of consultant services (including the rehabilitation study), and a
portion of technical assistance and training. The proposed credit would be
on-lent by the Government to THA for a period of 20 years, including 5
years of grace at an annual interest rate of 11Z p.a. and THA would bear
the foreign exchange risk (Secvion 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and TEA, satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 5.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Co-financing from bilateral sources has been identified and sub-
stantially agreed as follows: (a) preliminary civil works - Norway (US$2.8
million equivalent); (b) grain facility - the Netherlands (US$10.3 million
equivalent); and (c) equipment - Denmark, Italy and Finland (US$7.9 mil-
lion, 3.8 million, and 6.8 million equivalent, respectively). Some of the
Norwegian assistance, and US$0.3 million equivalent from the United
Kingdom, would co-finance additional technical assistance. TEA would
finance most of the local costs, estimated at US$32.0 million equivalent,
or 35% of the project cost (including taxes, from which THA is not
exempt). All co-financing commitments have been confirmed by the respec-
tive co-financiers. The signing of the agreements for the Danish, Finnish
and Norwegian grants, which are critical to the initial implementation of



- 17 -
the project, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Sections 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement), with the
Italian and Netherlands financial agreements to be signed by June 30, 1985
(Section 4.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Financial Structure and Performance
52.       The financial position of both TRA and the port are sound.  THA's
debt/equity ratio was 24:76 in 1983 and the return on net fixed assets in
operations was 15%. Much of the outstanding revenues (comprising about 4
months revenues) due THA represent late payments from Government depart-
ments.  Agreement has been reached to the effect that by September 30, 1985
all outstanding dues from Government departments would be reduced to not
more than three months on average. Tariffs are at present producing a
healthy operational surplus (rates of return on net fixed assets in opera-
tion in 1982 and 1983 were 18% and 15%, respectively). Tariffs are
reviewed periodically and an exercise to improve their relationship to
costs, on a cost center basis, is currently underway, with the assistance
of an UNCTAD costing expert. It is envisaged that the review would lead to
the need to increase tariffs to enable THA to generate funds to meet its
escalating operational expenses and debt service charges. THA's operating
results would be reviewed annually and the Government would approve suffi-
cient tariff increases based on this review (Section 3.02 of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and Section 4.05 of draft Project Agreement). The
procedures for the periodic review of tariffs, based on actual costs, would
be introduced by September 30, 1985 and tariff proposals would be submitted
to Government promptly for inclusion in the annual budget. To further pro-
tect THA's financial viability, THA and the Government would consult the
Association whenever additional investments in excess of US$2.0 million
equivalent (beyond those in the project) are planned (Section 3.03 of draft
Development Credit Agreement). Such investments would he expected to be
economically viable and their impact on THA's finances would be examined.
THA would not incur any debts if its net cash revenues would become less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding
fiscal year (Section 4.03 of draft Project Agreement) and by June 30, 1987
it would revalue its assets periodically. In addition, THA would take all
appropriate measures to ensure an annual rate of return on net fixed assets
in operation of at least 7% (Section 4.04 of draft Project Agreement).
53.       Conservative assumptions have been employed in forecasting the
future financial position of THA. Future operations and financial perfor-
mance projections indicate that THA's financial performance and condition
would be satisfactory throughout the period 1984-1990. While operating
expenses have been forecast to increase by 234Z between 1984 and 1990,
largely reflecting assumptions regarding future inflation rates (para. 49),
operating revenues are forecast to increase by only slightly more (245%)
over the same period despite an expected increase in traffic of about 30%.
The basic reason for this is that containerization tends to increase the
degree of competition between ports, and in the future Dar es Salaam will
be competing more actively with ports in neighboring countries than at
present, and monopoly profits will be less easy to generate. On the other
hand container shipping operators are primarily concerned to obtain rapid
turnaround of their vessels, and are unlikely to apply strong pressures on
ports to reduce tariffs in real terms provided this condition is met. Thus



- 18 -
if Dar es Salaam port experiences the increases in containerized traffic,
and the improvements in efficiency which this project Is designed to faci-
litate, the THA financial situation could well improve over the already
satisfactory position forecast of an average 10% annual rate of return on
net fixed assets in operation. The debt/equity ratio over this period
ranges from 26174 in 1984 to 53/47 in 1990. However, since the rate of 7%
might be difficult to achieve in the two years ismediately following the
revaluation of assets (which is to be carried out by June 30, 1987; see
para. 52 above) without a very large increase in tariffs, agreement was
reached to the effect that a review would be made of TEA's finances in the
same year as the completion of the revaluation of assets, at which time
agreement would be reached among the Government, THA and the Association on
an appropriate rate of return for the subsequent years that would reflect
the adequacies of THA's tariffs (pursuant to Section 4.05 of the draft
Project Agreement), as well as THA's financial requirements. Until such
time of the revaluation of assets and subsequent review of TRA's financial
requirements, it is recognized that in the event of significant fluctua-
tions in net operating income or large increases in net fixed assets in
operation by THA from one year to another, application of the minim=m 7%
rate of return for each year may necessitate sharp increases in tariff and
other revenue measures in one year compared to another. In this connec-
tion, therefore, agreement was reached to the effect that in the event that
such fluctuations or increases are due to these temporary or exceptional
circumstances, THA may adopt the principle of averaging one year with the
other as provided by the THA Authority Act.
Accounts and Audit
54.       TEA will also submit annual financial statements audited and
certified according to generally accepted auditing procedures by indepen-
dent auditors satisfactory to the Association within nine months following
the end of each of the borrower's fiscal years (Section 4.02 of the draft
Project Agreement). In the past there has been some delay in the compila-
tion of accounts by TUA, partly due to problems caused by the disintegra-
tion of the East African Community.
Procurement and Disbursements
55.       The construction of the civil works to be financed from the pro-
posed credit would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with the Association's guidelines. Eligible domestic con-
tractors would be afforded a preference of 7.5% under ICB procurement.  The
consultant services for engineering and supervision are expected to be pro-
vided by the present consultants, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Technical assistance personnel will be selected on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Contracts for equipment
spares and teaching equipment costing less than US$50,000 each (the total
aggregate not exceeding US$500,000) will be on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures satis-
factory to the Association or in the case of spare parts, items may be pro-
cured directly from the original supplier. The program of overseas fellow-
ships and associated foreign training would involve the listing of
students, their qualifications, courses of study, selected institutions and



- 19 -
estimated costs. These will be reviewed by the Association. The procure-
ment arrangements are summarized in the table below:
US$ (Million)
Project Component                                                      Total
ICB 1/   LCB 1/   Other 2/   NA I/   Cost
Kurasini Rehabilitation                             3.2                 3.2
Pipelines Diversion and         4.0                                     4.0
Lighterquay Renovation         (0.3)                                   (0.3)
Container Terminal and         37.8                                    37.8
Ubungo Depot                  (19.0)                                  (19.0)
Grain Facility                                     15.0                15.0
Project Equipment incl.         0.7        1.8     19.5                22.0
Spare Parts                  (0.7)     (1.8)                         (2.5)
Technical Assistance            2.3                 2.3                 4.6
and Training                 (1.7)                                   (1.7)
Training Equipment                         0.5                          0.5
(0.5)                        (0.5)
Consultant Services                                           3.8       3.8
(3.0)    (3.0)
TOTAL                      44.8       2.3      40.0       3.8      91.0
(21.7)     (2.3)      (0)      (3.0)   (27.0)
1/  ICB - International Competitive Bidding; LCB - Local Competitive
Bidding; NA - Not Applicable.
2/ In accordance with each bilateral agencies' policy and regulations.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the
Association.
56.       The Credit would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures for civil works and equipment; (b) 100Z of PPF advance for
engineering consultancy services; (c) 100% of foreign expenditure for
engineering consultancy services for supervision of civil works; and (d)
100% of foreign costs for tecenical assistance and training. No with-



- 20 -
drawals would be made in respect of the rehabilitation component for THA's
other existing facilities and spare parts (US$1.8 million) until the reha-
bilitation study (para. 47) has been completed and specific items priori-
tized (Schedule 1, para. 2(d) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The
proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over about five years. An esti-
mated disbursement schedule is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Justification and Risks
57.       The proposed project will initiate a program for effective reha-
bilitation of the transport sector in Tanzania, a vital economic sector.
It would retain and enhance Tanzania's role as a major means of access to
several landlocked neighboring countries and increase the prospects of the
Dar port to earn badly needed foreign exchange. The skills of technicians
and managers of THA will be improved through training and technical assis-
tance. Improvements in grain handling will improve the efficiency with
which such grains reach markets in Tanzania and in hinterland countries.
For the project as a whole, including the cost of training and technical
assistance, the economic rate of return is estimated to be about 33Z with a
first year rate of return of 29Z. The economic rate of return for the con-
tainer facility is estimated as 37Z, for the grain facility 47%, and for
the comparatively minor lighterage and associated rehabilitation works and
repair of the oil jetty over 100%. When the sensitivity of the overall
economic rate of return was tested, it was found that an increase in the
capital cost of the project by 10% combined with a reduction in traffic of
13% and a decrease in containerizacion of 20%, reduces the economic rate of
return to about II%.
Risks
58.       The risks are that even the modest growth in the traffic forecast
will not materialize. A decline in aggregate traffic would be dictated
largely by the performance of the economy, but there is little likelihood
that containers will not continue to increasingly substitute for general
cargo. The proportion of Dar es Salaam cargo presently containerized
(about IO) is still very low. Some decline in grain traffic is forecast,
but with rapidly growing populations in both Tanzania and Zambia it is
highly improbable that continued reliance on significant imports can be
avoided over the next decade.  A second risk is that costs will exceed
estimates. However, bids have been received for the main civil works, and
for the other components the present price estimates have been prepared by
experienced consultants, and reasonable contingencies have been provided.
Finally, institutional improvements may materialize slowly. However,
recent experience has shown that THA can adapt to changing demand patterns,
and the technology of modern container development is such as to almost
inevitably produce improvement in efficiency and productivity. Particular
attention is being focussed by both THA and its consultants on the suit-
ability and appropriateness of equipment design technology.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHOWMTY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and TEA, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Provisions in the Credit and Project Agreements of particular
importance are noted in paras. 45 through 56 of this Report and those of a
special nature are also listed in Section III of Annex III. The appoint-
ment of a project coordinator, the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment between THA and the Government and the signing of the Danish, Finnish
and Norwegian co-financing agreements would be special conditions of effec-
tiveness for the proposed credit (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and referred to in paras. 45 and 51 of this Report).
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III to
this Report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
November 8, 1984



-22 -                                           AMNU I
T-SiZ  3&                                           Pa         I of 6
-mD Mu".         . or  u    -  m ws 
W. OF                         W(UI C£ DCwe
9&.1      965.1   94..1
*G31CALra                         332.      396.2   401.9
cm  -  wm  ()70.0                              la".    230. Ic            24A.                  U12.
CKMDGMu  Cr oam  1oru3t            17-0      50.0    50.6               62.8                  539.0
-    m_ - 7  
N.0a2p1D-Ua C~aNInS       1361.0    1331000  19763.@- 
IMa   M WMO CZ F OFT4.84                     659      129               392                    29.7
-A3   - -                                                                                      -
sfm     106410Cl)                      S13A.0.
,ouLammi     -20
E S                              1068      Z4.1     20.2              355 5.8
PM3  U M. &cmLO 140               6        33.4    42.6              2193.                  11.5
- s 2  51 m 3   -. D 
0-14 us                         427       4.       46.2              45.6                    45.4
1 -5 3us                        5S 51.5    50.8                       51.5    -.7
65 5                              3.0       3.1      3.0               2.9                    Z.9
-J           GOMM MMwa  CZ)
2.2       Z.7      3.3               28                     2.
maw                              5.0        6.3      8.               5.2                     S.?
own a[=am  a= M                4&6.      45.      46.9              48.6                   47.0
1 3E MM   (1CM MI)           22.4       38.6    25.8               17.7                   1S5Z
COS IXF      W  S=                 3.0        3.1      3.2               3.2                    3.2
-3_0
FAFUX  m&NO
OCCF 13010.  REM    C                              M6 /4
(1369-71-100)                     950       1060    08_.0               85.8                   94
MR CA     sami or
-stfvWC Or w    _ )             90.0       91.0    63.0               86.4 9-
-DEXF CGiS5 PMDM                40         49.0     45.0              49.9                   56.7
or M     *L Am                 18.O       21-0    2a.1 t3. 3                                17.0
cID Cms 1-4) oc n.o               3z.o       Z4.0      8.               Z3.8                   1U.7
LUZ ET_  AT 3111f (114S)          41_5       45.5     52.0              48.4                   51.7
M311 Ne=.  ct cm        4)       140        12o        6.0             11 70s.
CS ii Sax t53  OP)
TO                                 -       13_0     30.0 If           22.8                   35.6
_                                 ..       61.0    36.0 if            61.s                   55.1
.-AL     9.0     36.0 if           142                    27.3
ACCES 20 13WAM DISPOSAL
CZ OF taMEarlo)
TOM                               ..         ..     17.0 f            3.0                      ..
mglu                               _         __     #_  r             69.2
AL                                ..         __      4.0 I            24.8
OrwMAi 3t IoCS                   220.0   22z40.0  1750.01 /a         274774                 213.3
par. MR  rin    PERM            IlN&.0,jk  7140.0   2M0.  re          336.2                  2246.9
vO_. PM 303118L 3M
OzTaL                           600.0 1   720.0 o  5e0.0o/          1069.                  936.9
'1363                            6O.0      6.0    S0. re             391.2                  3667
lSllO1530.0 £                                      Uso.. re          3050                  40L2.
Am9     13 MM _OSPITa 3             ._         ..
AWUME sIZE OF 1036101)
TOM                                ..       4. 41     _
VR&W                             3.i 1     32        --
RURAL                            4_-        *.5 /1    .3 /f
A133=_. ..OF 1360U..
36J                               18 --   --
TEL                                ..        ..       .
m                        ~~~..       ..      .
£mL                      ~~..       ..       .



-23-                                                 ANNE I
T AN L L 3                                                   Page 2 of 6
T A  = UP. O1- SOCIAL ICDDCAOS U
Z. WID UW. or               Ru1uI         m GHOUlS (IgRGU    AVIRAG) /a
CNOST HECZIT ZS?ZKA2DIAZ) /b
g80/b      1970/b        Zl         V SOURO SAW          AorA 31  OSE
cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ol orsua vDoSs r ua
mEDUCATRIONO
PIDUR?;  TOTAL                      30        39.0    102.0                694                      9L.0
HALE                    33.0        47.0    107.0               78.5                     90.5
FINALE                  18.0        31.0     96.0                 .3                     14.
SZCOUDART: TL                       2.0        3.0       3.0               13.1                     17.4
HALE                     2.0         4.0      4.0               17.6                     23.7
ROLA                     1.0         2.0      2.0                6.3                     14.5
VOCAIONAL CZ OF SECmnaa)             22.6         ..       1.8                7.2                      5.3
PML-ZIACM RATIO
PRIEf                              45.0       46.0      43.0               46.1                     36.6
SECOEDaR?                          20.0       16.0      19.0               25.9                     24.3
AD I.T LIIEIUQA   3    CZ)            9.5 lj    26.L IL  79.0                44.3                     336
a_m
FASK WCARS/ISAUD W0                   2.4        2.5       2.6 la             3.6                     20.J
RA CIO  EIVERS/USAND P0P              2.0       11.3      27.0               41.9                    100.8
TV P                 1!                ..        0.3       0.4                2.0                     18.5
EWAP   C-(        GENBIAL
IIERS-) CXRCLATO
Pm3t IHOUSAND POWULAUO              2.5        4.7      10.5 /k             5-4                     17.2
C aEIM aCuAL a                        0.5         ..       0.2 1.             1.4                      0.3
WEAL LAEO R  (f Om)                4733.0     5642.0   8004.0 _
FMAE    C(ERSEI)                   37.2       36.7      36.1               36.5                     33.8
AGRICLIm  C. (UERC?)               89.0       56.0      83.0               77.4                     57.1
US                                  4.0E)  4.  5.0       6.0                9.8                     17.4
RATE (IERCE)
-TOTAL                             46.4       43.9      *0.3               41.0                     36.3
MUt                                59.1       56.3      32.4               52.1                     47.6
INHALE                             34.0       31.8      28.7               30.2                     25.1
IC EPENDEEC  RATIO                    1.0        1.1       1.2                1.2                      1.4
!-:   _s -o
aF RA E
Ro-c. St OF  .USEH                   ..       24.7
GEK ST OZO oF HouODS                 ..       50.4
10015? = OF  IBOUEDLDS               ..         .6
LTLzs 42 or EOISEU S                 ..       16.0
ECTIBM    alsoE  lOVER    fl=m
LEL (D5S Fa   PT)
UN                                    .         ..    1. IL               166.3           525.3
RAL                                  -.                109.0 /l            90.8                    249.0
ESTIAMED RELATWE POUZr IstwE
LaE CUSS PE CAPT)
UR.                                                    IZ5.0 /I           107.7                    477.4
RURAL                                ..         ..      74.0 /f            65.0                    16.0
lb            30PP- Em ASOLUrT
POVUERT IMCE LEVIEL CZ)
UiRBA                                ..         ..      10o0 /I            34.7
RURAL                                ..         ..      60.0 /i            65.4
- oTr AVATABLE
M.r APPLICABE
N[ O T E S
/a  The group averes for each adicetor are popu_atlow-wellited arlthetLc _mu. Coveae of coetrle Amnu the
Indicators depends an avalablIty of dae and la ot oulfom.
lb IULeas otheI se oted. Data for 1960 refer to any year betm  1959 and 1961; Dta for 1970- betwa  1969 and
1971; and d-a for -fmat Recent EUtiate- betwem 10 end W982.
/c EalaLnd Tazula oaRy;, /d 1976; le 1977; /f 1975; /J 1962; /b Regstered,. ot al practlcng In teo coutry;
-   1967; Ij 1956; 1k 199 /1 1978.
JWEm. .s5



-24-                                                                        ARM I
sa.                                                                         Page 3 of 6
Im ~  a. -  co  ma . Iss..'.m     -xi. ,        ..... cma.t..a ..IA.4m.3. -C.        . um-a. 3. _     a   k.   -3. _  _  * -   =- 1
_...l. ben.6 a. ,I-a.|h - .___ adma_ _-e      .       _. a.t  -_aMen    m    -_m 1. tm..... _   .  .11. .. ftf-         .9.        .. .
mm.. -. me  -  N    ..mmm.m mm.. .  qpr-.mamma. -1- iflm.en                  en     IR.. nr-  os  42            "ts   .B s,
tIm mml    ime o-                                                            !!Vrmaln,-. .h) p C)m    a .3 ~  l-a.i  len2-t  mm-,1"F.- a.  p  .. a.
llhfUa gff_    t_ -.-                          e_     l a. l"...d- a                 i, i                           i
SW-aIi. cm. cm! mm  or.m P    -0    mDl-.  ft-..       n. m -s        ., .lm ~          M P .i   M.& a  *a--& .3 . at l  a'l   ma
ME_                                                  %fff   _ -.no               8      _1_  _"
9".Me   tol     n me.                                                           sy1.gm -,so    pbmjt - Fm.?.Im d        &Rm bu 8.6 mallt..l
_ - mm.! mimi. am _.qmlmlmg l_a ammaa _mma _a-.1 alma.                    P~m6Ii~ -    .-     f... . 111-a  1.ps"l -  .1h.1sp ,m.. -m
_-_T.a Ill d.l           _lm _                                                        ,___.  _ _t_    _ .  _I_tm  Pmm _  _al    amm ?, t_  at _    _
tin.   . a  ..s..... am-. ..o m ..w _ mmmm.                                           S&m _3aamST a
C.. m.   -     = __1_ -                                                       .menmm.  _ . _I. _mIla l.a.  __- _m-ta
alt m..a  iSt Em..                               _mam. -m1                                             1  mDm   md D l l_: -  mf Csl-
w me       Cu-_ 1.*-p.., -                         - ,                                                               w       M .  .a _   m  _  
aim.. liPS,  _a. dm.                                                           lw - b-C _.3. i a_l. ..m                       .. 1a_.l .=
_nwcn__           _ b               0              0d-                                            -W-Lt  _Y_ W               S. "a~,
1.0- [M. -4 1102-       -3.m    bI  .am.m 3m...  am  am  m
o inT         a.  -t ,-    p _p,.9            1.-a -_-                                  v-                       - D         t   alp _
pfl, a-a. at- Ia                _.b_r_  a!op-.__-.  .p.
_                                                                         _  JW   -   lffl_                                          - __-  - . _.- _ 
m  _ : -l._   3. _al. a                .s w    m                                     _iS  .       .......
_w...a liSt dam..                                                               m.l   a. am tC . a .  - f..  _  m-. a_ _at.a    mm -  m  m.
...a.       f_a    _ W _  - UU ef- m_              __
,.3.1 i.mmtmm....~~~W~m.mmEm) - li .6 EmIt I; limO. IllS.    El!_
ama.           y                                                             u-a b-.ldCt..sm.maaaE   m.ml-s--                    61.
mnm..a mem.....    .mi. a.w P-.Af. %. am.m.l.U   ada                     Waa.            .z.     ma        i S. -      -....  b-at 
| gb @_  M D_ _*_ __ t_ .Vs_    *__ C_                                           _a 10}--  l
.tm.~ElmS 1Pm. ~  m. da.                                    a.  3.3d  m.    3l  m,mc .S..         r       .  . .;t
i.Imm. ,_...                                                               -.m       a._ a, |.       u   - ..L a.. w.m _m.   __ ,_ ma.q-
F.mIa... -    , *r-                  p               _d _h0                a         m    U-_              _at_ _m    we _.w
-  Z. s,s.  lkU.V-.   mtn    '-   '   2-       .s.                                   .       bo--  N.  ch- ftga ~  
,ss"  f W P-31.4               l..         ,       _.p                         lt.       n        m- . _a             -m          _
M_ -.j_allm at.     f.                                                                              S...!t.so, _sass -mmm.  aml. .-v .
Pm..   _      ._- __    Z.S    _.C  ati-                                  i __         .I. I 1.. a                             sf.  -  _   t-
,,a  b       I_l 0 .m, h- I.m = t                                     -11, Al al' 1._            . - 1__ *_ _ * r
U. P.11e... fm  aCiIwa  .3m   -a.                 .                     .6tM-.      m.   mlhlIa  m,mhm
~,. mm,...ml I mm.lm., -mm  ..len Ra..l.a  -   s..,,                                           S)  U..St
mat   ' .Cm. (a                3. l._   Ia. _nm6                        ___ ,___j
atrt     mr _.iIl.yt_ _ _ m_ _  _ __  fin p..elta Fm                _       nmmE~
1.a   .3mi.-I       maa -    a-..kn.,...u.,                           na.m-    ma   a.    m.!     n.k   m.                   Cl
-4 m.  -   .t.kgm.l6  3!                              fm.u,.tm.a.i-                                 a. ma-,eb-I - M..&      a 
.-t    m-    n                a     dC e_ atI                                                  m                      r    _ a   -r.  W-I_
-a _! r_ r. ma. _m... sent _r_                                            -fm   -         r r1-L _ r a-    *A-  _. -m- -A r
-       .l_  mm.. tIm mata-my m.p.4aIm. .5mm 1-   .  m _2----                                         - en a. a_ -0 _Mr   -.
P..mlmm.m  *_..~ r- r1. a. atin._ I. r_:_-m1. -P          Cl.                                                       i               __
_m in  an. *1.  r,_ma_. t-  ma _.d. a r . ar                                   t_t. _ * __ e.>~ - _mlt *
_~~~~~~~~~~- _) _tr   r          *_    _CO_ _3 s_r_                                       .-      _ 
_I-) t a   r.t   a a                         - __        a. -                              t          r.
a.-&   .. *R*s,    1. mIliymmm         m.l..l. s- %m..! c f.. lia                             A-.--dpi.am. C-m
.a. _io                                                                       -f ta.ml- _ .. ....           ..      ...?....  ._  r n _a _._
A-S.            h .. W  C tids                  IV,a t-   ?1 a.m.  ma a.. Pa
_s_        sss _-    v-_* >-zr_s           >        *r    a                  n
3am! a. __a  195.   n6              F                                               . m. ft_-MI _- Lm    *a         _    _ -   r_  a11 )
FM  M. a. .6.&,g        . it            I ,,--.1   ,._, m ...t .e ._           _ _.  a mt a.              rn _                 -h _
_ p.t.                                         4012Ion. zsa_i   .  _                    I       t,,s. t          r  a.. At r9_* _
p    A-1           O   I. *.  .=IS. -:w                                                          ma   k. _=m r _  mtr
il m _                      -_" i_  -  a l m _    _   a Ft-DM  emmd            am.                                                      *>
p.m. mmp.amm. mm. iim.mO. li      a         tP-                                . mtm. C.1t-a _           lat1.)  -l_         ml rr  _d
p..im.m _t_mli ma. -...m _     _t - ..    l  m1 _aa   Cal.. _.ti   -   m. _l    Im. _. r                        _in   rlm       a @_la..
aa. mmm   a__ _r. _ta   mat... -_ __. _s. _m. .t  m    .  a.-                         ar *rm.m  at Cm.B.  _- r_ r3  ai.M.-
cca d.m am   .. t.a  - ma   t3. n. .ta ml ad-mm                       _       l ..mm..f.  ma   l                - mm ma.. C.. _. t, _
_ d _|_. _ _ ttl -_ -_s __ _
atE... I.._ .    mm d.                                  t.                                   _,,_t  __._  _            f  __
614 _m..mmam    mm.. _   _    *a...      tr__ .e  a_...  1_                  3. .t.. .a I. -   a°1t elmm.a             -V _-  I.__ina..
mm.  m.l ..p..dammi.. m.Itm. ml Wl. .- .-.-   ..me- n-"lM-"                  r.-m.8.  P--a.m..   F     a, t l    ro . mrae -a "em  .
r   -tI    ma... aiI   ..-.._mmrm is,ml.m4                                      lmla. a_  rm!    .. lma                .. m_            .il.
_L          I  ar   r 2 oL     -"_     _4 txr  _  __      __"ua_E t                    r_fs_r}-L_          r-s f_ -<.   r,r~
*.a... k..   .m.. .. mm...?Cm  P   -   .-   -a  a .-...                       .          m        . --       .W  r.__t * a.r_. r.  t  MD
-            l_.   d        _   r_rl m.9.n _7 _am          W            _ .               ,_  -        uL  _      - r _ *   a. r_ _
_                                                              r_tI<Ir,_l_  r  *r_r}~~~~~C- c r  -W *-. _t.  r9   r_".
lien                                                                         miS... minIs _m mararlS  Ea'    I . I  i _     -  r_  _  Et ,  t  -* r
,.rr  "w_ % r Ir r_  _u   _=t_r  *. e  _,-   r _                                 _       rm      _        _       r    _t1__..- 
-mf th -1 m.4 _.. - _                     m1  a-I - mm. t_m.                  m- ,        .Im  _  ._-r
_.~~~~b  M  _.                * >        .4 1-   __t_                                      _L. r_ M.,  r_r>,ra   _  .rft. AS  r_ r_ir _ _ 
.S aP _S  I          l _ __ a    mt.l-0  rv-     s_   rf__
ml. _-lm..lmp -r -   t mm.EIv          r _t--          P-                    r.-_   mr  (maT- -.i _l     m.*
.mm.ma  ..F . mm  . mmm..   . .spa.    f  .rf-                             s-s.. .2d a- 0mp-.       P ..mdi 3-a.   maa. a..    .iim 
_ _ e{izt_ d   lllh,~m                                          l _l__ 10  m ff _t
.1-           en _s   _t.-a s",-L.    1 _   19 d-    t "-ntWn
m  ab m r P-.                                       m. as ma -h-la. _ _-  r 7ua _o_. _               _     ..0 _ i
lmam..f 31.4l- mmam..    -m l           itt rt_-- -   .   m                 -   ...-- - - -_        -  Pm_      - .1            .me
~1       d      -  .r l_     ___. _.                   a _t at .FM :i Ul                   mm   16  Ia  .   '__tst         n
_I_ M,s,l r6  _t.wv; 1%_0  IV  _t., -ar
On    _I              _ ,         P   _r _. S-A Z-P -a  rr                                           P&-   -2. F_4     - *s-C  *  s f_
m    S a.   ml    - m      7. .mm...Is  -msr1.md.. mnm.)-Ia   mm       m.n                               .lf.      .IC
rn-e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a _W,v                                     --Z  p",- MTt   1."-  4s'  -es-
m_r.    km.r   _ o  __-mldl   _m.. p.ma.mma a ...... mt     . dlm.tl, m*_        _a                   - I.        mfm.. Im rJrm. riS t  _ri
_..   -  s___" 
-lmm  Cm      - .W 1 .   matM; m3.m     9               t                t-                 _-n ** d m_                            -
di P.                                                                    .mO,mmm.I ...mf-m.. nI..               "lI          -A v-mtalt"
r em_m m.l  *r m..k.1mmm  .  m.nmm      r.... 1mm                  :         iml, lmin  ra .   .|_ ..m     - tait mm?.   faRm lam  Ce. - _r
din7___  ..mm.l. mmet. m ..  ..m.  .~.mm.   ..m....                           li. ,im   m ,m di. 1......... -l. -_ miMI ~ ...almF..........)_
mmm.m .m ammi. mmm...m   mplm  mka  m.. f-d           m.  .d.mf.iga-.mCmi.6.pm1m.mdm.m-i..a
am mrr . 1,cllm. 1   .0 _ mmmlm   a.ImCg.mmm 1.. mm_:
a *.d  mall mimI-m. _1I ma  tm _..   _                  f                       m _r,,,_
ar_ d SP. r A  -W _wl t^to 91,, _ r"fsl
or am. ..mm ast inn..  _am o. _., - nmm..   ...                                                 ,             en ma..  _~a. m   mmaIa  t _ a&.e-mk-  am
_i   aa        m  _. rimm.  .         _ r          s-_. _  _  l
vs, r _. _ft.". _h, __      .rr_  res    _        _ t
__         . m_ .b i_t.. m d _. a I _rmI..                                  m   f1 _
m.i            . _. _      1 r_r 1 _ m. ad  i. * m      t r    r
. M t. a-               m_         _. F _. tS                                a      -                    d
lIte mam Eta ImpeI a 1*-1 _i r_  _i          .                              fmmmmmc em-la r.mm   maI..  Pmm.m.m)-.a                     m
r._ _m.  mimc m.ml r_ .  ,_t m'         -r _ m..mmk  i-                           mmmmylnb-   ..m   e    am  I                    t.
_ml. rEm  m.m6 m  i-m.      .a *.d, mis-mel.lmo. m_?                          m.mmtmmll mdmmi dm_ pmmmtmm.-md.mlm.a
_ . _1 fm-_,                                                                    ma,,_  b l . .^_ 
_ _! m 31)3al31 1. rr       mb-in _ -      _-m  t-   pm atm   .              mmdmat.pmii1m.  -  P.m..mim    iI.aam
mmEim. I-s  _*. 3. Cl. Em.. _m  _._   *m.  am. mmmtm                          mm   maIn Pmm,3           .l  ,~~        m.3.



Popmbdion   : M7 mnlZm Cufd-M                                              PaW~~~ 4 of 6
c  Pw DME    am     i
D        e-VM    - smm  ~   al
.MM                 )n    Plo  O&al   g
DlB M~1976  1vn   JPgB 1979   Iw19=    is r f    i
Cmnt                        5M D         7.9   6L6   2.6   3.5   2.6   -M7    -3z            -0.      2.8 3b
Av    _   -ft                233964       49   8&    SA    0.7  117  -a2           L7        -LO       40        4.0
-d=                              677.2        9.7   6.5  -41   IM   -LM    -W        -            30       2.0       2
5uio                        1515.6        7.0   7.6   2.2   26   (61    GA         3-         i0                 7-
C-- _                         4630          LO0  13.0   MIz  -7.9   6.8   -7.3    -2.0          Li       S.l      2.
Sm                          IM6.3        12.f5   1.2   9.2  202  -6       ILO    -466       -ILI     -W        -0
Eem  cf MWs                    55L          3.9  ilD.J  -63   12.2   Q.6   12.5   M9            7.5     -7        4
XI<s Q EM                        5       -12.59   0Q3  3L5  -17     04   -7.0  2W              e        iAL9
-Maemi  _ws          5       23-3        M3  -48  -6Q8  1396 -2LO   A3.7   -1AAI                     -3         7.8
GOP dl       (I8 - Mo                      77.    MA PM^Q    0~ 11A                  O3       114e8    LS         M6
Moow_a cEr-  DSS MOL                               . -         L3   8.2    Si  9B         3    IL3      V.0      17_0
_ow ofEMa  os rel  Co                       ano  amm   mm   Z
onG mt   =Kd                     A"  a B    1=0  mu  lmo    6                .         Zs     2    L9           3.7
'gcu=                            36.9   36.9 U.8        46A     7.S       2.1         LS    Z     .5          4.
:iam                            15.5   14Ls   13        4.2    42         3.7       -Uv          OA           3.
smulaw                  9.3r@    300   29J    3tl   37.2          6.5        4A8         L5           3.4
C-M=Pd-                  79.    9L4   917    8LI   81.2            7.2        L9          3J2           31
Gon ims_m                         ZZeS   2L      M1    IBA    U.5           0.1                   -4.82         2.5
-   QS                         2L1     I!9A    M9     14.2    UJ0       -46        iL2         -0I7         7.9
iw=  Q75                       2LI    32.3   2W        M l7   ISA        0.4       iL3         -L4           2.6
bn   oae smow                   2S   a6    8.3  12B  14A                -114 S        A   4wM4               7.7
RKX~~~~~~                     S ef 
GA=   x_NO                      17JA    D3  2l.6
Qwu opmn_4                         16.3   18b3  2L6
Sub  t+) or ddEdt (-)            LS    1.0  -7.0
411i_ ole_dMM                    7.8    9.8  160
Facl:4                           2.9    2.1   8.6
CM   t - I    atC)            4.7        2.8       1.8      3.8
Q      Pja prq vih o  (S)     L4        -05       -0L3m     0.6
IaC                           3.6        &A4      IL4       47
KKaInd ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ Q sml    a4-.  A -.2    0.3
cedB tamci                    OmS       -0,82    -47        0.7 
P/ relDynw estinat
Ats vocin  da ; empc_e wet 2rm  coc.



-26 -                                       AM  
Pa  o5 f 6,
or c Cqd  DM (I
_tM                  A-      w lo _ s     aftmC
lsl 1976   J7t M9 s  an  Is e nu             D I I S                n 
um,,ts      .6                   7 1.7 -.S -&5  14    L         A lQl          M     -L       -5.1
y4    -JIt            353         9%4 -00   -"   S 2J   W    42    0           IO   -W         7A 
tdo                      Ws3    Z      9  L6  16A  4&3   9J  -W0    9.           3       W      43
anb_i inmllm t   -                        J = 3Z6 -V.0  -L3 -D.   -M              -2    -L.8  -3A
rocftmft        Wkl~~~ -4&  -3L9  -    4           3  -Z2   -1"-79   -W                 fO
mmwol~~~~~                  ^9 21  =   -a    4i   1     V16 -We d55    l l        : L2     0.0
_t If lar 2qi9ma        3%44   M9SU   -34.6 -W                  MA -WL
O&AM              ~~~~31ilA  -V0   3BS aL 2  9=4  -77  -W-W0                           2L6
O=CE tK                            S1. mn  11 u W.3 U1.2          7 UO          mA    S"  1   Lo"
hmpt  --    D         i     .0   8 L3 9L9 mu  INA6 1k  1X^6 D 0   D S1   155.6  16"
T ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     f CE t=  .M MW  4      L   7        M                e 
GMNS  cHXMU  zmo ClO   0               D       m MIS 2um    C1
59@    6i93   m olm0 ^2          716n         %WI lla       L  
-ael             -a    LO.  IOLO    M00 . na  0 .0                                     0.9a 3   u .
11 a f .~3 ad8FL0N        3=  DJ        404    46         L                          0    .3 
o~~~~SwD           -%A    A&    u1 46  U3                 0Q9    3   W           3        36
Mi of Mxh _*a           Sa  E%b A                              _GETbg
_1U                       SiO   47.  S%O           40    49    VA             OA         3w6      LO
mg,J79   5                             G82    D;3   MA    Z8                  L2         LZ       2 3e9
Paz an- UTsf Ohm   dZcw



- 27 -                                      I
g  6 of 6
DWA - M            A. Or,               . m Mr
DW    3T  is no  DQ SW -                            Mn
_.   d  -  ad Y                 36    58    6        75    774    S    6D6    up            7     No
* da  <.m   L                I_   326    40    376    53          44    47    Mt          5sW   1146
Tau"  c wa  ad _mzc             35      0   19   1412 lDI          U6    I2       1i   13    3 D37
d  milck J.                   318    70   14    I=    W5          11     1      IlD   IDW    173
g=    _ ffmzs                     6    -0      i9    19    23       x       21      2        23    3D
ri_*ecm| ba                    -2   -3      415   -35   -03    -3    410    43             -5    -4W
eff 1                             7    112   146   10    2          95 i    45    163       15D     Do
x Tlams  nO                            D 71    16    13Z   214      m      31      w       35    33
C2R    1 m  14    w        233    11      M      DO         D    32Z
PAM"                            2      -    -6       4      1      IL     x        7       15      -
Od criLq                         -9           66   39    94    341    213    235            170    32
QMw SO              I=(- uwmz)'I  -47   -17    M     -2    49       51    -40    -40        -40    -W
-utfmL =                               L 99    3D    46    go    17  4      0      1I4      34    454
an_m -               _is          3.7   2.0   0.5   0.9    141    0.5         .     1.5       20    25
acua dEb-ins                     60    34    37    37    40        31D
C    A          6S1ns                 32    1      19      m      95
ewdml 3                        40   191   306    1        2V      337
2Cf  10             a      14  3  9a  53
-     -      -      3     17       2
MA                            9     3      21    35    A         65
adar                          1     03    Is    52    3          67
_        _umam   lo3s           14    41     6      75    43       1B
CIttElciA 1   cc-       -      1    45  D          U       29
In                              5     AO     1      22    17      10
*,@.au.lmcll                    -      -      -      -     4       6
9     -      3    3       U       23
tsD    ad daEg-d-         323   791   114   133    17    16g
Efial"                       393   747   1M    1261   14       1l5
3Li    51    43    77    II         a
ftid43    419   SW    919    3B   3012
aft #mi
T~ald1v1m  i  es -6    29    3                      52    54    113
Jso t                         10    U      Is    31    27        31
a   m     Z O s                 7.5   5.9   6.1   7.2   7.0    3.2
_ orqP  Wammt z      w  3m  CZ) L6    3.0   2.6   2.3    2           4.0
aiida                           L5    3.0    26    LS    24        2.5
7.0    -     -      9.4    -       7.6
_ncep      ,Cf GE .  ,     CIz) 3L6   3L6   34   237   32.1   30.7
(Ifl"                          31.7   3L6   3.4   259   3Z1   3S5
ktMR                            Z7.2    -     -     10.9   -       26
AS Z dE -atQttm
at fd 1903
Noa1W a         c~E deb h a .*twMl
dim,Sa  'Id*' 5 ymm                                   47.2
~  VZWn 10 yinin                            41.6
cmt         I E d    aeft   atu
-rmm  da  Sfw  fLwt,zL
1/ ~1adi di      gal nt reafm 
w3a~G au21    6   . u   e tb DV    t.  dB   ad G   p                 2m,  Sf    fad, errors and
ad       and bslld up of arrears.
±1 wUb SF crdllt.



-28 -
Pap 1 et 3
IU  SWAD  (W  -  (KP CWBA W 1      ]N  hwUAw1
A. SrAW  OF UK  MM AID I8 (FEIIS iD MWARTA
AS C  SEUR 30, 1964
(13S$ aUiJm)
Am    less icmeelatiAn
JIn.ICr. No.  Year Bamrier          papmBa'k'f ¶1W    MII', jnjsbaed
12 Ii,  m ThiDrd Winw Tm, and 34 Credits
fit1U17  dLshised.                                    170.86 29.99 377.42
Cr.  607-TA  1976 Mwzanfia  Fifth EF ;carii                                ll.OD    3.94
In. 13I-TA  1977 Tama   !rogpro In&zgtrial Caomlex                  L)9D           0.63
In. 1386-TA  1977 Tanana              hstprro  Tial  ulex:   11.5)                 0.41
Cr.  732-TA  1977 Mwza-Ia  Second Sites aid Services                       12.O0   2.40
Cr.  743-TA  1977 Tairna  Trudcig                                          15.OD   0.52
Cr.  801-TA  1978 Taoza    Secxd Cauit                                    27.5D   6.66
Cr.  803-TA  1978 T     Daa   zRa1 1kv. Obarza/Sbiq3anga)                  12.00   3.84
In. 1607-TA1  1978 Tazaa    orogom Textile                  25.00                 19.94
Cr.  833-TA  1978 Tazanda  Mogrro Text1e                                  20.00   0.53
Cr.  860-TA  1979 Maazwa   Taurim  ael litatin                             14.00   6.96
cr.  861-TA  1979 Tamzania  Sixth dwatim                                   12.0O   7.74
In. 165TA1 1979 Taumia  NafrxtL Puilp and Paper             30.00                  6.74
Cr.  876--TA  1979 Tanzda  Fith Bigbwy                                    20.50   4.86
In. 1745-TA  1979 TL          Tgka Dev. Fin. C., td. L.00                          1R07
Tn. 1750-TA  1979 TIB         TanzAnia InuestIt Badk        25.00                  4.14
Cr.  987-TA  1980 T-umla  Tm Ia aml Dev. Bak                               10.00   8.82
cc. 1007-TA  198D0 Mazwia  Pyetbruu                                       10.00   6.22
Cr. 1015-TA  1    TaoznlA  Grain Storage and Milling                      43.00   37.03
Cr. 1037-TA  1980 Tazania  SuDlholder Tea                                 14.00   10.64
Cr. 1056-TA  1981 Tania   Sevesth Edlicatm                                25.00  22.71
Cr. 1060-TA  1981  Taania  Tedmical Asistwne II                           11.00   5.76
Cr. 1070-Tk  1981 Tanzania  Coocxzt PilOt                                   6.80     83
Cr. 1173-TA  1982 T1zaia  T                     I                         27.00   9.01
Cr. 1206-TA  1982 Tamzaia  Techical Assstmne M                             1.00   7.64
Cr. 1229-TA  1982 Talzna  Sao Hl F           y        II                   12.00   8.39
Cr. 1312-TA  1983 Tazania  Dar es Salaa Serage and                        22.5)  18.07
sanitad:
Cr.  1370-TA  1983 Tazania   Mufin  Pulp ad PaperMill                      18M00  13.95
Tec. Asst. & Eerry Cmxxv.
Cr. 1371-TA  1983 Tanzania  Coal Eugimerlng                                 6.30   5.89
Cr. 1405-TA  198i Tanzaia  Mtera  l       c       Par                     35.00  32.47
2 73.36  41.49  774.02
af .idchbas bmrepuid                                 51.44 2.94  6.93
Total now aitstaxiin                                221.92  38.55 767.09
hA    sold                            6.29
of aEh has bem repaid               6.29
Total nii flnd by Bank ad IDA 1l                      221.90 38.55 767.09
Total undisbsed                                        32.29   .63 227.88 260.80
It Net of e         adjustn.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1984
(US$ million)
Loan                                           Amount (less cancellations)
No.       Year    Borrower   Purpose               Bank I/ Undisbursed
Ten loans fully disbursed                          228.93
1204-EA   1976   EADB        Development Finance    14.10        0.03
Total                                  243.03        0.03
of which has been repaid              91.63
Total now outstanding                  151.40
Amount sold                 24.36
of which hs been repaid   24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank                 151.40
Total undisbursed                        0.03        O;03
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
C. STAIEMENT OF IFC IMNVSTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1984
Fiscal                                               Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor              Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1960 &    Kilombero Sugar        Food Processing     3.96    0.70    4.66
1964        Company
1978      Highland Soap and      Soap Manufacture    1.38     0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979      Metal Products        Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                 6.67     1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  4.37     0.69    5.06
Total commitments now held by IFC       2.30    0.55    2.85
_-
Total undisbursed                       0.06       -     0.06



- 31 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA: PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                    5 years.
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            THA with assistance from
consultants.
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:          March, 1979.
Cd) First IDA mission to review project:      May, 1979.
Ce) Departure of appraisal mission:           November, 1981.
Cf)  Completion of negotiations:               July, 1984.
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           February, 1984.
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As special conditions of effectiveness: (i) appointment of project
coordinator; and (ii) signing of the Danish, Finnish and Norwegian
co-financing agreements (Italy and Netherlands co-financing to
become effective by June 30, 1985) (paras. 45 and 51 of this
Report);
(b) THA would (i) introduce by September 30, 1985 procedures for review
of tariffs, on a cost based methodology; (ii) revalue its assets
periodically beginning June 30, 1987 and take appropriate measures
to ensure an annual rate of return on net fixed assets of at least
72; (iii) and in agreement with the Government ensure that arrears
in payment of outstanding bills from Government departments to THA
be reduced to not more than an average of 3 months by September 30,
1985 (para. 52 of this Report);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) THA will commence a comprehensive manpower training program by
December 31, 1985 (para. 46 of this Report) and undertake a
rehabilitation review study with assistance of consultants by June
30, 1985 (para. 47 of this Report); and
(d) As a condition of disbursement, no withdrawals would be made in
respect of the minor rehabilitation component (spare parts) (US$1.8
million equivalent) until rehabilitation review study completed
(para. 56 of this Report).



.4                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAZAMi
Pipeline-
:~~~~~~~~~
fficial Housing Estalus
)       \~~~~Tobacco
copper X2 Ds ov, liquids                                                 C ree
.    -F                   -         ~ ~~~~~~~~~.-  - Sto-.
Xr-  -                            GARe ES SALAAM PF
t .- TIPER~ OIL REFINERY    DREXSTN SLAMDPOF
I~~~ _             E Y             r                                             2 .... ._.........
,  3i,'1 ~~~  ecal, eKrAs
r t   \ .                         |~~~~ 4    GRAIN
{l '-V DA.n rdian                                I                             6   TUGHE
ZAB  EE *    TA%AidAN IA   
.d.- . ote      s Dotes Solon               l
Lw~      - 5                 Ocean                                                -   TAZAPI 
Lr>Swo          1?'-^-*-                               I                                  MOORI l  0
!  Zk"ff^,  _  _9ffi\     ~~Ol   m                                                 - 
1                                      0           ME!-.
ZAMIA*_~.¶-%I$R&UQE          ________________________



IBRD 16748R1
Iii4E
Kurosini                                             in       Shreho NsJ 
Alnsd Bush-   
jRepoir                            Gor
Anchorage            C            
Mg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acoraos.E 
*~~~~~~~~o *)    . F                                                
Moorings~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Gomcn
Moko be                   I -/  - CT
7ANIA                                                        t               I                   
r REHABILITATION PROJECT ,                                                 /                     JE Dace 
DPOSED DEVELOPMENTS                                                                                 C
WAREHOUSE                                                              5hool
OILJETTY 1,*-   
_R ThRMINAL l-   
_RMINAL                                                   n,itfeyP    \
HHE1ARF                                                                                   ,.-. .-..,. T__r
LWAY (1. m. Gmapl .                                                                           y --
RAILWAY  11.1 mn. Gaugs} \ ____
2 BUOYS               ~                                               ,,,,,                  \    o
71N         60
Alongside ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      os Berrths                    < ^_
OCTOBER 1984



IUGANOA j         _                      7
_ _.\zJJ   sx   q;t~~l tef Wcl icS 
RWAN DA   Un/.
160                                            Id. bAt
\N~~~~~~~~~~i
,                      I  B U R U N D ~~~ZI  rEl/ <i   
I.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~W
/i  r   ;S--.Y
_L-'                         IA y o
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  Njomb,ejmw
g 9   X   X          J   '  ~~/   N ae
.         VS, >   /~~~~f             N s     ,



IJ  16675
-__    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~KENYA
W fX    TRW                               11~~~~~~~~~~~~~i W--'   -"
NYA                                 Lw
I  r. X \Z A  I R E
z d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- S  \TANZANIA    - 
A*~~~~~~~~~AR
J - b, , \ ~~~~~~~~.    rraoc
TANZANIA
-~~~~~~  ~~~~~~R~O ESSALAAM
PROJECT LOCATION
-                                                          - -oin
.4 V~~~~~~~~~~I
;  J '               /  / ' f 8%~ - --------
r
lta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ls
--                     ~~~~~MOZAMBI QUE           i
3*e tOCTO8E 198






