Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4212-TA,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 8, 1984
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This docuiment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN1S
Currency Unit = lanzaniia Shillirng
lSh 1.0 = US$0.06
I Sh 17.0 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR 1/
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =      3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km3)                   0.6214 miles (ml)
1 kilogram (kg)'                    2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (tonne)                1.023 short tons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIA1IONS
AMI               Agence Maritime Interrnationial
AIC         =     Air lanzania Corporation
BEACON            British East Africa Contairier Consortium
DANIDA      =     Danish International Development Agency
EAC         =     East African CommuLity
EAHC              East Africarn Harbours Corporation
EEC               European) Economic Commiunity
EDF         =     Economic Development Fund
FINNIDA           Finnish Irnterriational Development Agency
KOJ               Kurasini Oil Jetty
MCW         =     Ministry of Commurnicatiorns and Works
MOCI              Ministry of Communications and Iransport
MOW               Ministry of Works
MPEA        =     Ministry of Planninrg arid Economic Affairs
NMC         =     National Milling Corporation
NORAD       =     Norwegian Agency for Development
NTC               National Transport Corporation
ODA               Overseas Development Administration (lJ.K)
RSA        =      Republic of South Africa
SWI         =     Ship Waitirig lime
IHA        =      lanzaniia Harbours Authority
IRC        =      lanzaria Railways Corporation
ZBR         =     Zaire, Burundi arid Rwanda
1/ Years givern in this report refer to the twelve months endinig in the year
mentiorned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITAIION PROJEC1
lable of Contents
Page No.
I.    Ihe Transport  Sector  ....................................                                 1
A.   Economic  Background  .................................                               1
B.   The  Transport  Sector  ................................                              1
C.   Transport  Policy,  Planning  and  Coordination  .........                            5
D. Summary ..........                                                                      7
E.   Past  Bank  Group  Sector  Operations  ...................                            7
II.   The Port Sub-Sector  .....................................                                 10
lanzania Harbours Authority  .............................                                10
A.   Organization  Management  and  Staff ...................                             10
B.   Budget  Accounts,  Audit  and  Insurance  ....                   ............        11
C.   Management  Information  System  (MIS)  and
Port  Planning  .....................................                            12
D.   Tariffs  ...............              ..............................                 12
E.   Training  .          ...........................................                     13
The Port  of Dar  es Salaam  ...............................                              14
F. General . .............................................                                14
G.   Port  Physical  Characteristics  .......................                             15
H.   Port Operations  and Maintenance  .....................                              16
I.   Past  and Present Traffic  ............................                              18
J.   Technical Assistance  ................................                               19
III. The Project .............                                                                   21
A.   Background  ............               ..............................                21
B.   Objectives  ............               ..............................                21
C.   Description  ...........               ..............................                22
D.   Cost  Estimates  and Financing  Plan  .....                    ..............        25
E.   Implementation  ......................................                               26
F.   Environmental  Aspects  ...............................                              27
G.   Procurement  ...........               ..............................                28
H.   Disbursements  ..........                .............................               29
This report has been prepared by Messrs. J. Lethbridge (Sr. Port Engineer),
M.  C.  Dick  (Sr.  Economist)  and A.  A.  Krishnarn  (Financial  Analyst)  on the
basis of their findings during an appraisal mission in November/December
1981, and subsequent post appraisal missions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Conternts (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  Economic Analysis ........................................                  35
A.  Future Traffic .................................                       35
B.  Project Benefits ................................                      38
C. Sensitivity Analysis                  . . .42
D. Project Risks...                                                        43
V. Financial Evaluation  .. ..49
A. General .49
B. Past Performance .49
C. Financial Forecasts .51
D. Projected Operating Statements .52
E. Projected Cash Flow .52
F. Projected Balance Sheet .54
VI. Agreements Reached and Recommendations .61-62
ANNEXES
1  Selected Documents and Data Available
in Project Files    .                   .63-64
2 Engineering Aspects    ..65-67
3 Channel Improvements    ..68-69
4 Bank Projects in Transport Sector .70
5 Ports Iraining    ..71-76
6  Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirement ..77-86
7 Progress Rpoorting System                     .         .87-90
CHARTS
1  THA Organization .................... . .............              91
2  Port Organization  ................. ..............      .         92
3 Implementation Schedule                 ....93
MAPS
1 Existing and Proposed Developments
2 Project Locations



TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              United Republic of Tanzania.
Beneficiary:           Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA).
Amount:                SDR 26.2 million (US$27 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard.
Re-Lending Terms:      Total credit will be on lent to THA for 20 years
including 5 years of grace at 11% per annum. THA to
bear foreign exchange risk.
Co-financing:          The United Republic of Tanzania is arranging co-
financing as follows: grants from the Governments of
Denmark-DANIDA (US$7.9 million equivalent); Finland-
FINNIDA (US$6.8 million equivalent); Italy (US$3.8
million equivalent); Netherlands (US$10.3 million
equivalent); Norway-NORAD (US$2.8 million equiva-
lent); and United Kingdom-ODA (US$0.3 million equiva-
lent).
Project Objectives    The proposed project is designed to provide for the
and Description:    rehabilitation and modernization of the Port of Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania's major port which also serves as
an important regional port for several neighboring
countries (Burundi, Malawi, Rwanda, Zaire, Zambia).
The proposed project would provide special container
handling facilities and equipment, replace some
deteriorated general cargo equipment, modernize grain
handling facilities, rehabilitate lighterage facili-
ties and the petroleum jetty, repave sections of
berths, and provide for a review of additional
rehabilitation requirements, technical assistance and
training, and consultancy services.
The container and grain facilities would lower trans-
port costs for Tanzania and land-locked neighbors,
while the jetty, lighterage and paving investments
are necessary to restore facilities to acceptable
condition. Technical assistance and training would
improve the Tanzania Harbours Authority's ability to
train its personnel, and improve its operational and
maintenance capability.
Risks:                 Traffic could fail to increase as forecast; however,
container traffic is likely to continue to grow



- ii -
rapidly and grain and petroleum imports are unlikely
to decrease significantly. Institutional benefits
may materialize only slowly, but training and
technical assistance should reduce this risk. No
major physical risks are anticipated in implementing
the proposed project beyond those that are normally
expected in the construction of a project of this
type and for which provision has been made by use of
consultants.
Estimated Project Costs:                           Local   Foreign       Total
--------US$ millions-----
Components:
Advance Civil Works                            3.0       1.7          4.7
Main Project Civil Works                      11.9      24.4         36.3
Main Project Equipment                         0.6      17.6         18.2
Technical Assistance/Training                  0.9       3.1          4.0
Consultative Services a/                       0.7       2.5         3.2
Base Cost (mid-1984 prices)                 17.1     49.3         66.4
Contingencies:
Physical                                       1.9       2.1          4.0
Price                                         13.0       7.6        20.6
Total Project Cost b/                        32.0      59.0        91.0
Financing Plan:                                    Local   Foreign       Total
------…US$ millions------
Sources:
IDA                                             -       27.0        27.0
Co-financiers                                   -       32.0        32.0
THA                                           32.0        -          32.0
Total Project Financing                     32.0     59.0         91.0
a/ Includes refinancing of a US$950,000 PPF advance.
b/ Identifiable taxes and duties amount to US$9.4 million equivalent and
the total project cost, net of taxes, is about US$81.6 million
equivalent.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:           ---------------US$ millions…----------
IDA FY    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual                           1.4    8.6    8.8    6.9    1.0    0.3
Cumulative                       1.4   10.0   18.8   25.7   26.7   27.0
Economic Rate of Return: About 33%.
Map:                       IBRD 1674R and 1675R.






I. IHE TRANSPORI SECIOR
A. Economic Background
1.01      Tanzania has a large territory (945,000 km2) with a widely
dispersed population of 19.8 million and a low population density
(20 persons per square kilometer). Population growth is estimated at 3.4%
per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively high levels.
About 42%O of the total land area is devoted to agriculture.  More than 80°o
of the population lives in rural areas and is dependent directly or
indirectly on agriculture. The agricultural sector accounts for over 45%
of GNP, 90%O of employment and roughly 85% of total foreign exchange
earnings.  The industrial sector is still small, contributing about 13%oo of
GDP. The large government and service sector produces about 30%O of GDP.
Exports continue to be dominated by the traditional primary products which
include coffee, cotton, cashew nuts, sisal, tea and tobacco.
B.   The Iransport Sector
1.02      Roads are the predominant transport mode, especially for domestic
traffic. There are about 50,000 km of roads of which about 2,500 km are
paved. Ihe rail network conlsists of two systems, the lanzania Railways
Corporation (IRC) operating about 2,640 km of track and the Tanzania Zambia
Railway Authority (lAZARA)--jointly owned by lanzania and Zambia with
970 km of track on Tanzanian territory.  There are three main ocean
ports--Dar es Salaam, langa and Mtwara, operated by the parastatal Tanzanlia
Harbours Authority (IHA).  The port of Zanzibar operates independently.
International airports are located at Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro which,
together with more than 20 other small domestic airports, serve the air
transport system.  An oil pipeline carrying oil between Dar es Salaam and
Zambia completes the transport infrastructure. The two main
domestic/interrnational land transport arteries are the TRC rail lines
connecting Dar es Salaam to Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika and Mwanza on Lake
Victoria while the TAZARA rail line and Tanzania Zambia (TANZAM) highway
links Dar es Salaam and Zambia.
1.03      The total tonnage transported in the country is estimated to be
about 4.6 million tons. About 40%O of this is handled by TRC and TAZARA and
the remaining 60% by road. Railway traffic has now stabilized after
steadily declining due to motive power difficulties of TRC and TAZARA. The
heaviest flow of passenger and commodity traffic is in the east and
northeasterrn parts of the country and on the international corridor to
Zambia. Parts of the country are not adequately integrated into and
served by the transport facilities, leaving large areas in the western and
southern parts of the country virtually cut off from transport services.
International transit traffic is sizeable--about 1.3 million tons or 28%o of
total commodity flow in the country.  Most of this traffic is Zambian and
uses the IAZARA railway and the IANZAM highway. lraffic to Zaire, Burundi
and Rwanda (ZBR) uses the IRC.
1.04      Ihe transport sector's potential capacity is appreciably greater
than that presently realised.  IRC, IAZARA and the trucking sector all seem



- 2 -
to suffer from the same deficiencies: weak management (resulting partly
from the policy framework), shortages of qualified staff at most levels,
lack of adequate maintenance procedures and shortages of spare parts which
in turn results from a shortage of foreign exchange.
Ports
1.05      Ihe main physical characteristics af the port system are
discussed in Chapter 2.  However, it is important to emphasize the key role
played in the transport sector by the port of Dar es Salaam.  As indicated
in para 1.02, Dar es Salaam is the focal point for the two main transport
arteries which not only serve Tanzanria but also Zambia and ZBR.  Modern
shipping development, particularly corntainerisation, favours concerntration
on a limited number of ports, and Dar es Salaam's dominant position in
lanzania is likely to be reinforced. Its international role, particularly
in serving Zambia and thus generating foreign exchange earnintgs is,
however, sensitive to the quality of service provided. The transformation
from a traditional general cargo port to a modern, medium sized, efficient
container port cannot be achieved without significant investment. Without
this investment, which is covered by the proposed project, the full
benefits from investment in other transport sub-sectors, notably the two
railway systems, will not be fully realized. Thus the port project is an
essential complement to the other measures being undertaken to revitalise
the transport sector and, through that, facilitate the flow of goods within
and through the country. The thrust of the project, with emphasis firmly
placed on rehabilitation and on increased efficierncy in the use of existing
facilities, is fully in line with Bank Group strategy towards Tanzania.
Roads
1.06      Of the total road network of 50,000 km, 9,500 km are designated
as primary, about 7,300 km secondary and the rest rural roads and tracks.
Of the 50,000 km, 41,000 km were earth tracks and only about 2,500 km were
bituminous paved by end of 1982.  The paved portion of the main trunk
system consists primarily of the road from Dar es Salaam north to Arusha
and the TANZAM highway from Dar es Salaam west to the Zambian border.  The
rest of the road system consists of low standard primary, secondary and
feeder roads, many of which become impassable during the rainy season.
1.07      Average daily traffic on the roads is relatively light, under 200
vehicles per day on most roads. The average road density is 2.8 km of road
per 1,000 inhabitants.  Regional road density is not always in lirie with
the population density and the productive needs of the local community.
1.08      Road maintenance has been inadequate.  This has led to a gradual
deterioration of trunk, secondary arid rural roads.  This, in turn, has
adversely affected the quantity and quality of agricultural production and
exports.  Under the Fourth Highway Project (507-IA), and particularly the
Fifth Highway Project (876-TA), some improvement in the organizatiorl and
execution of maintenance operations have been effected. However, much
remains to be done and the Assocation is pursuing this with the Government
within the framework of preparation of the proposed Roads Rehabilitation
Project.



- 3 -
1 .09     Responsibility for maintenance of primary and secondary roads
lies with the Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW) while mainteriance
of tertiary and rural roads is undertaken by the country's twenty regional
authorities. Inadequate planning and executive capability in MCW, arising
from (i) shortage of experienced and qualified staff and (ii) insufficient
transport, equipment and particularly spares, have been the chief reaso..
for the poor road condition. Similar problems affect the regional
administrations in charge of rural roads. Attention has been drawn to the
general problem of inadequate sectoral allocation of funds in the course of
Bank Group discussions on the Government's structural adjustment program
which was formulated in 1982 as a result of an international task force's
recommendations.
1.10      Road transportation is further hindered by a shortage of
effective capacity in the trucking industry. The total estimated road
transport demand is about 2.6 million tons or 1 billion ton km.  Although
there are no reliable statistics on effective capacity, this is believed to
be declinirig due to shortages of spare parts and tires, a result of foreign
exchange shortages. Even though the private sector still handles two-
thirds of the road freight transport in the country, priority in the allo-
cation of foreign exchange, and thus the ability to purchase spare parts,
has been given to the 10 regional parastatal and state-owned crop trucking
companies.  Rehabilitation of the latter's equipment is presently being
assisted under an EEC two-year program.  Governmernt attentiorn has been
drawn to this imbalanced treatment in the Bank Group's Transport Sector
Memorandum issued in November 1984.
Railways
Tanzania Railways Corporation (IRC)
1.11      The TRC is a parastatal organization under the jurisdiction of
MCW. With a total length of 2,640 km and 1,200 km maximum haul, IRC links
three important port areas, Dar es Salaam and langa on the Indian ocean,
the Lake Victoria ports (Mwanza and Musoma) and Kigoma on Lake langanyika.
The IRC network serves the regions which produce about two-thirds of all
exported agricultural products, 80%° of all marketed cereal and food grains
and contain almost all of the cereal milling and processing facilities for
major exportable agricultural products. It also serves the transit traffic
to and from ZBR. However, inadequate investment arid shortage of skilled
personnel have resulted in poor utilization. In 1982 TRC carried about 1.1
million tons, only 70%O of the peak year, 1972, when it was part of the East
African Community Railway System. Passenger traffic declined over the same
period from 4.2 million to 3.3 million. IRC has incurred net financial
losses since its inception as an indeperndent carrier in 1977.
1.12       Inexperienced management and a shortage of skilled personnrel,
especially engineers, mechanics and accountants (in part caused by
excessive turnover), have been critical factors in the poor plannirng arid
operations of IRC though the recent establishment of a Corporate Planning
office is a promising step. While IRC has adequate physical capacity to
carry current and near future demand, capacity utilization has been poor.
This has been due  mainly to (i) long wagon delays experienced at the lake



- 4 -
ports of Mwanza and Kigoma due to inadequate interface facilities at these
ports and at the port of Dar es Salaam; (ii) an inadequate and obsolete
communication and signalling system which hinders effective traffic
management and wagon control (iii) lack of adequate maintenance facilities
and equipment, especially for diesel locomotives. Proposals to address
these problems, based on the recommendatiorns in a Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) financed consultant report completed in mid-1981
were considered at a technical co-doner meeting held in November 1983 and
led to a formal doners conference in May 1984 which failed to elicit much
support for IRC's ambitious investment program.
Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
1.13      Construction of a direct rail link between Zambia and Dar es
Salaam resulted from the export difficulties Zambia experienced when
Southern Rhodesia unilaterally declared independence in 1965.  In September
1967, the Government of the People's Republic of China agreed to provide
the Governments of Tanzania and Zambia with physical and financial
assistance to construct a railway between Tanzania and Zambia. Construc-
tion began in October 1971 and TAZARA became fully operational in August
1976.
1.14      TAZARA has been unable to handle consistently the traffic on
offer due to inadequate locomotive capacity.   Locomotive availability has
been low due mainly to poor maintenance and the inherent unsuitability of
the existing locomn*`ves for the mountainous central section of the TAZARA
route. An aid agreemernt with the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG)
provides for financing (i) the re-engineering of 16 existing locomotives
with compatible German engines and (ii) purchase of 14 more powerful German
locomotives. This program is likely to be largely effective by end FY1984
and should provide sufficient capacity for the immediate future.
Additionally UNDP/UNCTAD have identified other possible investment
requirements and a Bank-financed study, completed in September 1984,
analysed operational and managerial weaknesses, which have also beset
TAZARA, and propose remedies. The Bank expects to assist in addressing
these issues. Although the uncertain financial situation has been a
problem, recent meetings between Heads of State is believed to have placed
emphasis on finding a solution.
1.15      Wagon utilization is poor because of long wagon delays in the
system. As a result, effective capacity has fallen short of demand and
TAZARA has had to meet this shortfall by using Zambian railway wagons.
While the introduction of additional locomotives is likely to reduce wagon
turnaround time, IAZARA will experience operational problems so long as it
is unable to overcome its shortage of trained and experienced staff. Ihis
has recently been recognized in an agreement with the Government of China
whereby 250 experts have recently returned to assist in operations. The
likely duration of their stay is not known. There is moreover a need to
convert at least a quarter of the TAZARA wagons to make them suitable for
carrying containerized traffic. Containerization is already important on
the TAZARA route and this is likely to increase over the next five years.
Though none of the TAZARA wagons were built especially for containers, a
sufficient number of these can be easily adapted.



-5-
Civil Aviation
1.16      Due to the poor roads, which are costly to build and maintain,
and the substantial distances between major population centers, air
transport has the potential of becoming an impcrtant means of transport.
At present there is a lack of effective policy and direction as to the role
of air transport in the overall transport system. The Air lanzania
Corporation (ATC), established in February 1977 after the dissolution of
the EAC, is under the jurisdiction of MCW.  It is the national Tanzanian
airline and provides both domestic arid international services.  It operates
2 Boeing 737's, 7 Fokker Friendships and 4 Iwin Otters; ATC's schedule
includes about 19 domestic and 12 to 14 regional/international
destinations.
1.17      ATC has not operated profitably since it was established and has
had to rely on extensive government subsidies since 1979. Prolonged
reliance on costly foreign technical assistance for aircraft maintenance,
aircraft overhaul overseas and the lack of sufficient funds for procurement
of spares and fuel are major constraints, and possible solutions to these
problems are not obvious in present economic conditiorns.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.18      While the necessity for an efficient and extensive transportation
network for the development of the lanzaniarn economy has long been
recognized, this concerni has not been reflected in terms of investment
allocation to the transport sector, and Tanzania ranks low in the share of
public capital resources allocated to transport. Even though the country
is large, economic activity widely dispersed and transport systems
relatively underdeveloped, the share of public capital resources proposed
for transportation in the Fourth Five Year Plan (1982-1986) was only 13%o.
(The transport sector's share in government budget allocation has averaged
about 26%o in neighbouring countries.)  The meager allocation to rural roads
(roughly 1%) is also inadequate given the economy's dependence on
smallholder rural agriculture.
1.19      Despite increasing needs, the allocation of scarce foreign
exchange to the transport sector has also been declining. Foreign exchange
contributions from external resources to the sector decreased sharply (by
40%) in absolute and relative terms in 1981 compared to 1980 and has
remained at a low level. If foreign assistance is excluded, only 4%
(Tsh 82 million) of Tanzania's foreign exchange was made available for the
transport sector in 1981, (excluding fuel for transport).
1.20      Government policy of favoring the growth of public sector
undertakings has sometimes failed to appreciate fully the burden such a
policy imposes on scarce resources in terms of experienced managers,
trained engineers, qualified accountants and skilled staff. There are
indications that this is now recognized and the role of parastatals will be
reduced in future.
1.21      Ihe proposed three year structural adjustment program (see para
1.09) assignis priority to the improvement of road maintenance particularly



in the rural areas, while new road construction is to be limited to the
most needed links between productive rural and urban areas.   In railways,
high priority is assigned to repair/rehabilitation of existing facilities,
while a limited number of locomotives, carriages and freight wagons will be
ordered. On.the civil aviation side, the Government decided to construct
with bilateral assistance a new airport passenger terminal and other
improvements at Dar es Salaam, estimated to cost at least US$110 million in
foreign exchange, which represents a significant over-investmernt in view of
the low actual and prospective traffic levels.
1.22       One of the major and generally recognized conistraints in the
sector has been inadequate planning and coordination of the transport
modes.  Since the disintegration of the EAC, Tarnzania has, except for
roads, had to build up new transport sub-sector institutions.  With few
exceptions, the ministries and parastatal organizatiorns involved with
transport have done little planning. Besides poor micro-planning of capital
investments at the level of parastatal companies, deficiencies have
occurred in planninig of operations and mainternarice of existing facilities.
Until mid-1984, three ministries were directly involved in the managemerit
and development of the sector: (i) the highway subsector was under the
authority of Ministry of Works (MOW), (ii) the Ministry of Communications
and Iransport (MOCI) was responsible in principle for the development of
the remaining transport modes, while (iii) the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs (MPEA) through its Division of Infrastructure, reviewed
transport investments in development plans. In addition, there are
numerous government-controlled parastatal agerncies, nominally under the
authority of MCW, (e.g) IHA and TRC, involvesd in the sector with their own
activities and objectives.  Due to the lack of proper organization and
inadequate staffing, MOCT did not function effectively, particularly in
coordinating modal investment and program implementation and neither it,
nor other transport associated ministries and parastatals have been able to
assemble and analyze data in the comprehensive manner necessary for long
term planning. Since mid-1984, the roads branch of MOW has been absorbed
in MOCT to form a new ministry (MCW). This is clearly a desirable
development as it now insures that activity in the two main competing forms
of transport--highways/trucking and railways--falls under the scrutiny of
the same ministry.
1.23       To help address problems in the transport sector, the Goverriment
decided in 1979 to undertake a study of sectoral planning and coordination,
under terms of reference prepared in consultation with the Bank. Ihe study
was completed in 1980 but focussed too narrowly on staff numbers in the
Ministries involved, and too little on preparation of a program of action.
Accordingly, in early 1981, Bank staff prepared proposals for a three phase
action program.  This covered (i) strengtheninrg of the MOCI Planning Unit
(PU) by recruitment of three technical assistants for three years, together
with lanzarnian counterparts, (ii) preparation under PU supervision of a
natiornal transport study and (iii), based upon this study, the development
of a five to ten year transport development program.
1.24       During 1981, the Government agreecl on the action program, and an
understanding was reached with the Bank that the whole exercise (estimated
to cost about US$1.7 million) should be grar-nt financed. Although progress



- 7 -
in identifying financing sources was slow, in late 1983 Denmark, through
its aid agenicy Danida, agreed to finance technical assistance to reinforce
the PU and prepare the framework for more systematic and coordinated
development of the sector.  Three technical assistants, of which one has
already been identified, will be provided to take up duty early in 1985.
D. Summary
1.25      Ihe main issues that need addressing urgently other than those
directly covered by this project are, (i) strengthening of effective sector
planning, (ii) improvements to the highway network through reconstruction
with improved periodic and routine maintenance as necessary, (iii) rehabil-
itation of the trucking industry, particularly private, primarily through
the provision of spare parts, and (iv) increasing the effective capacity
and reducing costs of operation of the railway system.
1.26      The Government has accepted that there is a need to improve
sector planning. It is formally committed to pursuing a policy of
encouraging public trucking but is increasingly aware of the need to assist
the private sector arid reduce the role of crop authority trucking activity;
and in association with the Bank is making attempts to deal with the
highway maintenance issue.  International assistance will be sought to
improve TRC and attempts are being made to improve TAZARA, although a
systematic approach to the deeper rooted problems of managerial and staff
weaknesses has yet to emerge. Improvements in transport sector planning can
be expected to emerge from the formation of MCW arid the strengtheninlg of
the planning unit.
E. Past Bank Group Sector Operations
1.27      The general strategy of past Bank Group Sector operations, parti-
cularly since the breakup of the East Africa Community in 1977 has been to:
(i)   attempt to increase the Government's capability to determine
priorities within and across transport sub-sectors, both in
capital investment proposals arid in the distribution of resources
between investmenit and maintenance; and
(ii)  while this improvement in expertise was being developed, assist
in the identification of priority investments, and support their
execution through the Association's lending program
1.28      However, project implementation has been hampered by a number of
factors.  Of particular importance are (i) reluctance of the Government to
make decision based primarily on economic criteria; (ii) lack of experience
of interlocutors at senior management level; (iii) shortages of local funds
resulting, inter alia, from the aforementioned weak economic and Government
budgeting situation; and (iv) ineffective technical assistance.
1.29      The Bank group has assisted in finarncing seven projects concerned
with roads and road transport: (a) IDA Credit 48-TA (US$14.0 million) in
1964 for construction of various road sections totalling 860 km;
supplemented by Credit 115-IA (US$3.0 million) irn 1968; (b) IDA Credit



- 8 -
142-TA (US$15.5 million) and Bank Loan 586-lA (US$7.0 million) supplemented
by a US$7.5 million Swedish Credit in 1969 for highway reconstruction; (c)
IDA Credit 265-TA (US$6.5 million) in 1971 for construction of a main road
in the south east and betterment of selected feeder roads; (d) IDA Credit
507-lA (US$10.2 million) in 1974 for improving the maintenance of primary
roads and for carrying out a study of the road transport industry; (e) IDA
Credit 743-IA (US$15.0 million) in 1977 for a trucking industry rehabili-
tation and improvement project, arising out of a road transport industry
study under the previous project; (f) IDA Credit 876-TA (US$20.5 million)
in March 1979 for improving the maintenance of trunk roads and for
initiating a pilot program for regional road mainteance; and (g) IDA Export
Rehabilitation Credit 1133-TA (US$50.0 million) in 1981 which provided,
inter alia, for the procuremerit of spare parts and tires for the trucks
owned by parastatal companies transporting export crops. The first four
highway projects have been completed with limited success in the
achievement of project objectives. The Bank Audit Reports which have been
completed on the first three, note that the physical targets were mostly
achieved in that the civil works components were completed though, in the
case of the third project, rather late and at considerably increased costs,
adversely affecting the economic rate of return. Furthermore,
institutional development and training of staff were unsuccessful because
the highway maintenance units which were developed and trained were
discontinued.1/  Attention is now increasingly directed to ensuring
continuity anfr ongoing training.
1.30      The Bank has also participated in the development of railways in
Tanzania through the East African Community.  In 1955 Loan 110-EA (US$24.0
million) was made to the East African High Commission to cover in part, the
preparation of development plans for the railways of the East African
Railways and Harbours Adminstration. In 1970, Loan 674-EA (US$42.0
million) was approved for the East African Railways to assist in financing
right of way improvements, rolling stocks, materials and equipment. Both
these projects were completed satisfactorily. The Bank has participated in
financing three port projects, through the former East African Community
(EAC), which included improvements to ports in Tanzania. In September
1965, Loan 428-EA (US$24.0 million) was approved to provide assistance in
financing railway and harbor improvements through the then East African
Railways and Harbours Administration for use, in part, for cargo handling
equipment, harbor craft and construction of berths 4, 5 and 6 at Dar es
Salaam as well as financirng for railway rolling stock.  The project
was satisfactorily completed in 1971.  Loan 638-EA (US$35.0 million), was
approved in July 1969 to provide financial assistance through the then East
African Harbours Corporation (EAHC, established in June 1969 to operate the
harbors of the three member countries of the 'East African Community), inter
alia, for completion of berths 4, 5 and 6 and construction of berths 7 and
8 together with a single buoy mooring for tan<ers, a dhow wharf,
1/  Ihere is a detailed account of failures in institutinoal developmewnt
in the highway sector in Chapter III (c) of Institutional Development
in Africa: A Review of World Bank Project Experience: Volume II
prepared by Operations Evaluation Department dated May 17, 1984.



improvements to the lighterage berth and cargo handling equipment at Dar es
These projects have been completed and an Audit Report (PPAR) covering both
has been issued. The PPAR points out that despite costs overruns (30%) and
implementation delays, (2-3 years) the two projects can be considered
successful since the additions to physical capacity provided facilities
essential to the foreign trade of Kenya and lanzania and the neighboring
land-locked countries; however, they had limited effect on productivity,
managerial and operational aspects of the ports. The PPAR suggests that
future projects should place special emphasis oni productivity, manpower
development and on the maintenance of facilities and equipment.  These are
being addressed in the proposed project.  In addition, an Engineerirng
Credit (S-24-lA) for US$2.5 million was approved in February 1980 to
finance preparation of the proposed project, and a Project Preparation
Facility advance (US$950,000) was approved in March 1983.



- 10 -
II. IHE PORI SUB-SECTOR
lanzania Harbours Authority
A.  Organization, Management and Staff
2.01       During the existence of the East African Community the ports of
the member countries were administered by the East African Harbours
Corporation (EAHC) with headquarters in Dar es Salaam. With the collapse of
the community in 1977, the Government of Tanzania established by
legislation (The Tanzania Harbours Authority Act of 1977), a separate
statutory authority, the Tanzaria Harbours Authority (THA), to develop,
improve, maintain, operate and regulate the harbours of Tanzania and also
to construct and operate new ports as and when required.  lhe IHA is
administered by a Board of Directors which, under the Act, is to "carry out
the functions and manage the business and affairs of the Authority".  The
Board consists of:  (a) a Chairman appointed by the President of lanzania;
(b) a General Manager appointed by the MCW; and (c) not less than seven and
not more than nine members who are appointed by the Minister of MCW on the
basis of their experience arid involvement in commerce, industry,
agriculture, finance and administration.
2.02       The Board is under the general supervision of the Minister of
MCW, who gives directions of a general nature relating to the managemelnt
arid business affairs of the Authority, approves major alterations to the
tariffs, sanctions the annual and supplementary budgets, approves
individual capital works, etc.  Ihe resulting fairly close control by the
Minister and, hence, the Government, of a port authority is normal,
particularly when it is a major source of foreign exchange earnirigs.
2.03       The chief executive of the Authority is the General Manager, who
is also a member of the Board. He is assisted by a team of managerial and
technical officers and other staff distributed, primarily on a functional
basis, among different departments, such as engineering, administration,
finance and traffic. The existing organization structure is given in
Chart 1. The qualifications of middle and upper management personnel
are satisfactory but because of the difficulty in getting qualified staff
and the absence of a suitable information system the degree of management
control over operations is inadequate.  The project addresses this problem
through its technical assistance and training component.
2.04       The Authority is legally responsible for the 4 major ports of Dar
es Salaam, Zanzibar, langa arid Mtwara as well as several minor ports.
However, Zanzibar essentially functions as a separate entity under the
direct control of the MCW arid is riot, in actual practice, under the control
of the THA, nor do its accounts form part of the accounts of IHA.  Ihe
other three major ports function as separate adminiistrative and operational
units managed by port managers, under the supervisory control of the
General Manager of THA.  The minor ports are attached to one of the major
ports for administrative and operational purposes, depending on their
location.



- 11 -
2.05       Tanga and Mtwara, the largest of the coastal ports, handle only a
limited amount of traffic (about 350,000 tons and 145,000 tons,
respectively, per annum) and the bulk of the traffic is handled by the port
of Dar es Salaam. Consequently, the staff employed in the former two ports
is small, being only 1,500 and 450 respectively. Dar es Salaam currently
employs about 8,900 of which 6,300 are in the operations department.  Most
of these are in cargo handling gangs.  Productivity improved over the
1968-80 period; dry traffic nearly doubled while the number of gangs
increased by only two-thirds, and by 1980 the number of gangs was nearly
30% below the peak of 1978.  This declining trend is expected to continue,
particularly as container penetration increases.  THA policy is generally
to reduce staff numbers by natural attrition equivalent to about 250-300
per year.
2.06       At the time of the East Africarn Community, cargo-handling
operations in the various ports were not the responsibility of EAHC but
were managed by a separate organization called the East African Cargo
Handling Services (EACHS) that had its own labor force and cargo handling
equipment.  With the termination of the Community and the establishment of
IHA, the government considered that a separate organization for cargo
handling operations was not necessary and that the staff and equipment of
the old organization should be taken over by IHA as a part of its
operations department. The actual transfer took place in 1978. Since
then, the receipts and expenses pertaining to cargo handling have been
included in the accounts of THA.
B.  Budget, Accounts, Audit and Insurance
2.07       The Finance Department of THA prepares the annual budget arid
compiles the accounts. Both the annual budget arid the supplementary budget
are to bti submitted 'L  the Minister of MCW fur approval.  ihe mechanism for
scrutiny is satisfactory to the Association.
2.08       The computerized accounts of IHA are compiled centrally by the
Finance Department on the basis of monthly statement submitted by the
various ports arid the transactiorns recorded in the head office. Ihere have
been delays in the compilation of the accounts mainly becuase of the
problems created by the disintegration of the East African Communicy arid
the. merging of the cargo handling operations.  ihe accounts for the period
ending June 1979 were not submitted for audit until November 1981; those
for the year ending June 1980 and June 1981 were submitted in 1982 arid 1983
respectively; and accounts for the year ending June 1982 were ready for
submission by November 1983.  The accounts for the period ending June 1980
and 1981 have been audited arid certified; those for the period ending June
1982 are expected to be audited by the end of December 1984. The accounts
for FY1983 arid FY1984 will be submitted for audit thereafter. According to
the THA Act the annual accounts are to be audited within six months after
the close of each fiscal year. SUch audited accounts are to be submitted
to the Minister not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year. To ensure that the annual accounts are compiled and audited in time
in the future, a covenant has been included in the Credit Agreement
requiring that future audited accounts shall be forwarded to the
Association not later than 9 months after the end of the financial year.



- 12 -
2.09      Under Sec.49(2) of the IHA Act, the accounts of the Authority are
to be audited by The lanzarnia Audit Corporation (TAC), a statutory body
established under the Tanzarnia Audit Corporation Act of 1968 for the audit
of all parastatal organizatiorns in lanzania.  Ihis arrangement is accept-
able to the Association. The Audit Corporation is fully independent and
has a satisfactory standard of professional competence.  It has a staff of
about 230, including about 49 qualified accountants and 56 undergoing
training. The TAC is taking various measures to augment its staff so that
it can more effectively meet its growing responsibilities.
2.10      THA has an internal audit department managed by the Chief
Internal Auditor with a staff of about 50 distributed among the three main
ports and the head office. The Chief Internal Auditor reports to the
General Manager. The department is not at present adequately staffed to
undertake a comprehensive audit, but steps are being taken to appoint
additional qualified staff, and it is expected that the department will
be able to function effectively thereafter.
2.11      IHA is insured with the Tanzania Insurance Corporation, a
parastatal enterprise, against fire, third party liability, accident, etc.
The agency and the types of insurance are adequate.
C.  Management Informatiorn System (MIS) and Port Planning
2.12      The system of management informationr is the key to determining in
a timely fashion the strategy for port planning, whether in the short,
medium or long terms.  It requires the availability of data, the timely
collection of such data arid its analysis. Once that is done, the
preparation of detailed proposals for investment necessitates specialized
inputs which can only economically be provided by consultants. Until
recently investment decisions were fairly simple but with the rapid changes
now underway in the characteristics of traffic handling, the weaknesses of
the management information system, and associated with it, the ability of
the Directorate of Planning to handle its responsibilities in this area are
becoming clear.
2.13      What is not obvious, however, is the best way of addressing the
issue, particularly in a dynamic sense. For example, port planning
indicators which, as part of the MIS may be important now may lose validity
as containerization develops. Acordingly, the MIS will require expert
review in order to determine the most appropriate system, the liaison
requirements between departments, the means by which information can be
produced with the most efficient combination of comprehensiveness and
timeliness, and the most appropriate channels of information. Provision
for such review is included under the proposed technical assistance
(para 3.05 (x) and Annex 5).
D. lariffs
2.14      The THA Act provides that the Authority shall conduct its
business according to commercial principles and shall perform its functions
in such a manner as to ensure that its annual revenues are sufficient to
meet its operating expenses includirng depreciation of capital assets,
pensiorn and debt service liabilities as well as a proper allocation to



- 13 -
general reserve. Since its inceptiorn, IHA has been able to achieve this
objective because of an adequate tariff structure which is based on a
functional distributiorn of charges between shipping and cargo in relation
to the services rendered.  Charges on shipping cover pilotage, towage,
mooring/unmooring and miscellaneous services, (e.g. supply of water, etc.);
those on cargo include wharfage, handling (cargo handling and stevedoring
plus separate charges for containers) as well as storage. However, though
the overall earnings have been sufficient, so far, to cover operating costs
and to provide a surplus, the individual tariffs for different services
(especially to shipping) are not, in many cases, sufficient to cover
costs. A tariff revision on the basis of a tentative costing exercise was
introduced in January 1981. Ihough this has enabled THA to meet rising
overall operating costs, it was not adequate for a proper and rational
review of the costs of the various services. A costing expert from UNCTAD
is at present assisting THA in introducing suitable procedures for: (a) a
systematic analysis of the cost incurred; and (b) a periodic review of the
tariff on the basis of cost. These procedures are being based on the
existing activity-wise classification of income and expenditure that is
suitable for a comparison of the revenues earned from the different
services with the direct expediture incurred on them. Technical assistance
will be provided under the project to assist in implementation. During
negotiations it was agreed with THA that: (i) a specific procedure for a
periodical review of the tariff based on actual costs shall be introduced
by September 30, 1985 and, (ii) based on such a review and taking into
account the anticipated changes in traffic and in expenses, IHA will submit
proposals for a revision of the tariff to Government annually in sufficient
time for the results of Government consideration of such proposals to be
included in the annual budget of IHA.
E. Training
2.15       lraining has been of a rather low level to date, both in
sophistication and in volume.  In 1982/83 the Bandari (port) Training
College ran some seven courses, aggregating about 550 man months with
attendence ranging from about 20 to 80. These courses were conducted by
Bandari college staff, who comprise a principal and nine instructors and
who operate in college facilities constructed in 19B0 and located about 10
kilometers from Dar es Salaam port.
2.16      While the courses are judged to have been well prepared, the
training program to date has suffered from major deficiencies: (i) the
college is almost totally devoid of equipment, ranging from audio-visual
aids to machines and facilities for operational conditions to be simulated;
(ii) the college instructors are substantially out of touch with the day to
day problems encountered under operating conditions, have had little or no
contact with the port for several years, and as a consequence conduct these
training programs in a rarefied atmosphere with results that do not inspire
confidence in the working departments who are the ultimate clients; and
(iii) the task of producing a manpower development plan, admittedly
difficult under the changing circumstances affecting THA and in particular
Dar es Salaam port, has so far been attempted in only a perfunctory manner.



- 14 -
2.17      Of on-the-job training, the most successful example has been that
in equipment maintenance supplied by Sheridan College, Canada in connection
with rehabilitation of Canadian equipment.  rhe personnel undertaking this
were enthusiastic about the willingness to learn of Tanzanian artisans,
while at the same time, emphasizing that unless such training was estab-
lished as a continuing feature, the benefits would be quickly lost.
Unfortunately this short term rehabilitation program finished in 1982.
2.18       The above factors have determined the proposals for a comprehen-
sive training program to be financed under the project, which is described
in para 3.05 (x), and Annex 5.
The Port of Dar es Salaam
F.  General
2.19      Dar es Salaam is Tanzania's largest sea port.  It is served by
two rail systems connecting with the Tanzaniarn hinterland and Zambia arid a
radiating road network, described under the Trarnsport Sector (paras 1.02
through 1.17).  (Other sea ports: Tanga, Mtwara and Kilwa are principally
served by coastal vessels from Dar es Salaam, while the Port of Zanzibar
handles small coastal vessels arid provides lighterage for larger ocean
going vessels).   The Dar es Salaam port facilities are located on the
western side of a well sheltered natural harbor immediately adjacent to the
city.  The natural entrance channel to the harbor is narrow and has four
bends, three of which are difficult for larger vessels to navigate because
of tidal currents and cross winds. Tugs accompany vessels during the
passage at all times.  This 3.5 km long channel was dredged in 1953 to
provide not less than 7.6 meters of water depth at low water. There is rio
history of siltation occurring in the channel.. Pilotage is compulsory.
2.20      The tidal variation is semi-diurnal with a springs range of about
4.2 meters. Most vessels wait for high water conditions to pass through
the channel, with vessels entering against the ebb and leaving against the
flood to ease the problems of navigating the bends. No night navigation
takes place and thus there are many days when vessels can only arrive arid
leave the port during the one high water period that occurs in daylight,
resulting in some ship waiting time. Navigation aids exist but are in need
of replacement. The dredged depth of 7.6 m and the present bends in the
channel limit the size and length of vessels using the port.  Proposals for
improving the channel have been prepared by IHA's consultarnts, but would be
very expensive to execute. They should be ccirisidered for a future stage of
port development.  An assessment of channel improvement proposals is given
in Annex 3.
2.21      There is an excellent outer anchorEige available for a large
number of vessels with a water depth of 14-16 meters. Adjacent to the
anchorage area in Mjimwema Bay is a single buoy mooring used for the
importation of crude oil for both Tanzania and Zambia.  For many decades,
up to 1956, the port operated as a lighterage port. The lighters were
discharged on quays adjacent to the city. Ihese quays have been preserved,
partly rehabilitated and exterided to serve continuing lighter traffic,
coastal vessels and ferries.



- 15 -
G. Port Physical Characteristics
2.22      The main port facilities cornsist of 11 general cargo berths
totalling 2,013 meters in length built between 1956 and 1977 arid having a
depth alongside varying from 9.8 m to 12.3 m below mean low water springs.
2.23      The land area behind the berths is unforturiately restricted by a
high, natural embankment.  Historically the port has evacuated and received
most of its cargo by rail, hence the port lands are partly taken up with
separate rail sidings and distribution networks for the TRC and IAZARA
systems, which are of different gauges.
2.24      Transit sheds in good condition, totalling 112,000 sq.m of floor
area, are provided on the berths. Additional shed space behind the berths
is used for unclaimed cargo. At present, container stripping and stuffing
takes place in one of the sheds behind berths 9 and 10.
2.25      Vessels discharging grain normally occupy berth 8 and portable
pneumatic equipment, hoppers and trucks are used to unload the vessel and
to carry the grain to storage depots or silos outside the port area. This
procedure is slow. The fleet of rented trucks used to transport the grain
is old, ill-maintained arnd unsuitable, and unable to mainitain a regular and
frequent round-trip service. Ihe percentage of grain spoiled and lost is
high.  The existing grain silo, belonging to the National Milling
Corporation (NMC), at the port is not used for the transit storage of
imported grains but as a feeder for an adjacent flour mill.
2.26      Bunkers and petroleum products (imports and exports) are handled
through the Kurasini oil terminal situated at the south end of the main
berths.  Ihis terminal has been neglected in the past few years since the
THA intended to demolish it and build a new terminal on the east side of
the harbor adjacent to the refinery.  Thus it is in a poor and hazardous
condition.  Some urgent remedial work has been carried out arid the berth is
now operating but still needs major rehabilitation to be undertaken under
the proposed project. Edible oils and molasses are handled through
existing pipelines at berth 10.
2.27      Container traffic has grown very rapidly in the past three years
and the port has reserved berth 9 as the berth for container vessels, with
berths B arid 10 being used when more than one container vessel has to be
served.  (Ro-Ro vessels are normally handled on berth 8).  There is no
transit shed on berth 9 and thus there is good access to the open areas
behind the berth which have been cleared and laid out as. a container
stacking area. Berths 1 to 3 in the port have traditionally handled the
transit traffic for ZBR and thus the storage areas behind these berths are
used for the storage of containers associated with that traffic. The split
in container storage and handling into two separate areas results in a
major loss of efficiency, time and equipment availability.
2.28      Ihe port's cargo harndling equipment consists of fixed cranes,
forklifts, tractors, trailers, mobile cranes arid vehicles.   Ihough some
replacement has taken place in recent years, the age of most of this
equipment exceeds normal life expectancy and maintenarnce is made difficult



- 16 -
by shortages of essential spare parts. The IHA's fleet of marine craft
includes port tugs, mooring boats, pilot boats, lighter tugs and a new
floating crane. The older craft are in poor condition. Through a loan
from the Kuwait Fund, 1 berthing tug, 2 lighter tugs, 2 mooring boats and
1 pilot boat have been recently acquired. Through an EEC loan, a further
pilot boat and 2 mooring boats are expected to be supplied.
H.   Port Operations and Maintenance
2.29      All operations within the port are undertaken by the THA, with
some minor exceptions described below. Marinie operations are the respon-
sibility of the Senior Harbor Master.  Cargo handling operations are the
responsibility of the Operations Manager. There are regular scheduled
meetings with TRC and TAZARA to ensure a smooth flow of traffic in and out
of the port. Customs clearance takes place within the port boundaries and
is rather slow primarily due to a shortage of skilled staff.
2.30      To assist in the movement of ships, the THA provides tugs, pilot
boats and berthing gangs.  In line with usual practice, cargo handling
operations are divided into sections, each section including one or more
berths with their associated sheds and open storage areas. Some of the
shedwork on berth 1, which handles ZBR traffic, is done by a private
company, Agence Maritime Internatiornal (AMI), on behalf of the governments
concerned. Delivery of import cargo to road t:ransport is done by agents'
staff and to rail by railway staff. The THA plans to take over this
delivery work by redeploying labor made surplus with the growth of
container traffic. Otherwise all work, inclucding stevedoring on ships, is
done by the THA.
2.31      The port works two regular 8-hour shifts, 6 days a week, with a
third shift worked at the ship's request. Two optional shifts are
available on Sundays. About 40 to 45 gangs work on each of the regular
shifts, giving about 3 gangs per ship on average, with some gangs allocated
to the lighter wharf. About 20 gangs work at night when necessary. Cargo
handling methods are generally good but their application suffers from
equipment problems. Overall productivity is about 62 tons per gang shift.
Individual commodity data is sketchy but productivity appears to range from
about 25 tons per gang shift for light general cargo, to 60 tons per gang
shift for oil cake and up to 200 tons per gang shift for copper.
Productivity in 1981 was the best since 1976 arid the level has been
substantially maintained since then.  Productivity declined in 1977 and
1978 due to congestion caused by high traffic levels and slow clearance of
import cargo, made worse by the merging of the Tarnzarnian sections of the
EAHC arid the EACHS. the average tons per gang shift was 69 in 1976,
declining to 48 in 1978 and recovering to 62 in 1981.  1981 handling rates
for the most important cargo categories and improvement targets for 1988
are shown in Table 3.3.
2.32      Productivity improvements have come from the IHA's efforts and
from the effect of the rapid increase in containerization. The serious
congestion experienced between 1977 and 1980 is unlikely to recur, provided
landside clearance rates can be maintained.



- 17 -
2.33      The backlog of import cargo has now been largely overcome through
the efforts of IHA and the governments concerned.  Some residual Zambian
cargo, a substantial tonnage largely unmarked and much of it now scrap,
awaits disposal at government level.  Ihe clearance of ZBR cargo is slow
largely because of a combination of capacity problems: (a) on the lanzania
Railway; (b) at the transhipment port of Kigoma on Lake langanyika where
working space and cargo handling equipment are presently inadequate, though
improvements is expected under an EEC finariced project underway; and (c) on
the lake itself where efficient utilization of the cargo fleet is hampered
by poor rail/port/shipping communications. Because security in the port of
Dar es Salaam is greater than on railway sidings outside the port, IRC is
slow to clear ZBR traffic from the port until through up-country transport
can be provided.  Through road transport from Dar es Salaam to Kigoma is
not a viable alternative as there is as yet no suitable road from Tabora to
Kigoma, a distance of some 400 km traversing a region of low population and
economic activity.
2.34      All cargo is handled on a time worked basis.  Government policy
is to introduce incentive schemes throughout state enterprises and a port
committee is studying how best to put this into effect. Efforts should
concentrate initially on introducing incentive payments for straight-run
commodities such as sisal, cotton and possibly copper, where progress can
be made rapidly and moving later to the more difficult question of general
cargo. The effect of productivity incentives will be to increase port
capacity.
2.35      Container handling is carried out using 4 toploaders and one
sideloader.  This is increasingly inadequate for the growing throughput and
the shortfall is being met by replacement equipment partly financed by the
EEC which should meet requirements until the proposed project becomes
operational.  Ihe container control system is adequate for present needs
but will also need to be upgraded during the project period to cope with
increasing volumes.
2.36      Operational records are extensive but require systematic revision
to reduce their volume, to provide more information on the handling
productivity for individual commodities as a basis for the incentive scheme
and to identify separately the traffic of cellular container ships and of
Ro-Ro ships.  Container traffic statistics also need improvement.
2.37      Maintenance of mechanical port cargo handling equipment is the
responsibility of the Port Mechanical Engineer, under the Port Chief
Engineer.  All major mechanical maintenance was transferred to a new
central workshop in 1981.  Daily checks are done at service stations near
the operational areas. The new workshop, which is largely full of parked
equipment awaiting minor attention or spare parts, is still being
organized.
2.38      It is not easy to assess the effect of present maintenance
efforts as equipment availability figures (overall average 45%0) are
depressed by the extensive inventory which includes marny items that should
be scrapped. There are many complaints from the Operations Department
about equipment performance. Planned basic maintenance is carried out on



- 18 -
forklift trucks and tractors outside the workshops in the open and under
inadequate conditionis. Container handling equipment is also maintained
outside under the overhang of a shed, without proper facilities. The
workshop includes a machine shop, but a few machines have never been used
because they are incomplete or lack skilled operators. Although the
Mechanical Engineer is energetic and enthusiastic, major problems of
workshop organization, operation and control are evident and the
implementation of improvements will be time consuming.
2.39      Civil engineering and marine maintenance faces different
problems. Civil maintenance requirement is of an intermittent nature, and
is mainly concerned with berth resurfacing. IHA entered into a contract
with a local firm to undertake repairs to the older berths, work commenced
in early 1983, but has since ceased due to shortage of materials and
transport. This work is now to be included in the civil works to be
executed under the proposed project. Marine maintenance is presently
limited to small craft, and THA's capability is being upgraded under an
ongoing project, supported by Norwegian aid. Large tugs have to go
overseas (to Mombasa) for maintenance, a satisfactory practice likely to
continue.
I. Past and Present Iraffic
2.40      lotal import and export traffic through Dar es Salaam Port
fluctuated considerably during the period 1976-1982.  Dry cargo (i.e.
excluding petroleum) increased in 1977, but by 1979 had declined sharply
and has since recovered slightly (Table 2.1). In 1982, Tanzanian traffic
accounted for 47o, Zambian 45%o and ZBR 8°o of total non-petroleum traffic.
There have been fluctuations in these shares an recent years, due largely
to external factors, described in Chapter I.
2.41      The experience of non-petroleum imports and exports has diverged;
while the former were at almost the same level in 1982 as in 1976, exports
declined sharply, and have only recently shown signs of stabilizing and
possibly recovering. The result has been a marked shift in the balance of
traffic; in 1976 imports accounted for 52%o of the total while by 1982 the
share was about 64°o. Within imports, grain has increased due to local
shortages in both Tanzania and Zambia, while most other import commodities
have declined due primarily to severe constraints on the availability of
foreign exchange in lanzania and Zambia.
2.42      Exports of copper, lead, zinc, cotton and cottonseed cake
constituted almost 75%o of all non-petroleum exports in 1976. While their
importance declined somewhat over the period 1976-1981, they still formed
the bulk of non-petroleum exports in 1981. Copper exports through Dar es
Salaam peaked at 727,000 tons in 1976 and after a sharp decline in 1979
recovered to 412,000 tons in 1981.  This largely reflected the decline in
total Zambian copper exports: from 735,000 tons in 1976 to 560,000 tons in
1981. The Dar es Salaam share has remained within the 70-75°o range since
the Zimbabwe border was reopened. The 1981 fitgures were in turn influenced
by the depressed world market for copper. Ihere was also a drop in the
exports of lead and zinc and cotton and cotton-seed cake but this decline



- 19 -
was less marked and more erratic than copper. Exports of coffee increased
considerably between 1976-81, but the increase was almost exclusively in
1981.
2.43      Crntainer traffic has increased rapidly after commencement in
1978. Ihis was largely due to the lead taken by the BEACON Line in
establishing a regular specialized container service between Europe and
East Africa.  Ihe number of loaded containers handled annually at Dar es
Salaam has on average been doubling every year over the last five years.
In 1982 total loaded contairner traffic was over 19,000 twenty foot
equivalent urnits (IEU) of which 13,290 TEU were imports and 6,034 exports.
2.44      The number of dry cargo ships declined 1977-1981 and recovered
slightly in 1982. This was mainly due to changes in traffic volumes,
with the average tonnage per ship increasing slightly.
Dry Cargo Ships and Loading
1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
*No. of ships               738      668     691      608    640
Average Cargo (tons)       3003    2780    3080    3060   3040
*Adjusted to reflect different characteristics of deep sea arid coastal
vessels.
J.  Technical Assistance
2.45      Present technical assistance to the port of Dar es Salaam is in
the areas of marine operations (7 men including the Harbour Master, the
Assistant Harbour Master and 5 pilots) and the dockyard (one man, the
Dockyard Manager).  There is also an electrical design draftsman in the lHA
engineering office. All the above expatriate personnel are supported
through United Kingdom bilateral aid.  During the period 1980-81, with
Canadian assistance, a team from the Sheridan College, Canada, provided
technical assistance to the port of Dar es Salaam mechanical engineering
section for the rehabilitation of forklift trucks and other equipment
provided by Canadian aid. Ihis assistance was extended to cover some
general maintenance and stores management.  No other technical assistance
outside tariff review (para 2.14) has yet been provided, although ILO and
UNCTAD have prepared studies on requirements. Appropriate technical
assistance is provided under the proposed project.



- 20 -
1ANZANIA
HARBOJURS I PROJEC1
Tale 2.1 - Export aid In2rt Iraffic ihiouq  Dsr es Salaan: 1976-1982
(tlousand toas)
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981  1982   1983 1/
Exports
Flour, Meal, Bran, Millet    20.9   28.6   61.9   18.3   14.3    3.0   -       2
Cotton and Cotton-Seed Ca<e  58.5   50.9   38.7   69.0   58.0   49.8   45     45
Coffee                     22.0   18.9   26.8   29.9   28.6   47.9   32       35
Sisal                      29.0   22.7   14.9   18.1   12.5   13.2   13        8
Sugar                      22.5   10.1    3.1    4.7   16.2    3.9   12       21
Oil Seeds                  31.6   17.6   31.2   10.6   24.5   33.2   30       20
Copper                    726.7  698.3  589.5  369.3  430.3  411.9  436    424
Lead ad Ziric              53.5   51.8   42.2   47.3   43.1   47.6   46       51
All Others                161.3  180.4  130.6  138.0  133.1  142.5  101       12
Petroleun Products        182.0  147.0  121.0  117.0  115.0  118.5  108    111
Total Exports          1,308.0 1,226.3 1,059.9  822.2  875.6  871.5  823    729
Total Exports Excludimn
Petroleun Products    1,126.0 1,079.3  938.9  705.2  760.6  753.0  715    618
Inmports
Grains in Bulk            141.9  210.7  143.8   82.5  234.5  276.7  165       92
Rice                        0.1   40.2   24.2   18.5   74.8   28.1   59       58
Flour, Malt, Grain in Bags   66.6   61.6   23.5   47.9   33.6   56.3  116    138
Other Foods                55.6   84.1   76.6   40.2   61.8   31.7   71       39
Paper                      24.1   30.3   48.1   42.9   26.0   32.2   27       17
Mabhinery, Metal Pipes ad
Sheets, Mtor Spares aid
Vehicles, Railway Material 225.7  253.1  307.8  281.4  233.8  214.3   202   129
Cement in Bags             17.6   32.0   25.3    8.3    8.5   19.8   31        2
Fertilizers in Bags       163.8  161.5   80.5   62.8  113.1   95.3   164    65
All Others                561.1  650.1  668.4  573.0  584.1  354.6   624   344
Petroleun Products      1,185.0 1,571.0 1,748.0 1,673.0 1,689.0 1,535.1  1,297 1,544
Total Imports         2,441.5 3,094.6 3,146.2 2,830.5 3,059.2 2,643.2 2,756 2,427
Total Imports Excludinq
Petroleum  Products  1,256.5 1,523.6 1,398.2 1,157.5 1,370.2 1,109.0 1,459   883
Total Imports a-d Exports 3,750.4 4,320.9 4,206.1 3,652.7 3,934.8 3,514.7  3,579 3,155
Total Inorts ad Exports
Lxcludirq Petroleum     2,383.4 2,602.9 2,337.1 1,862.7 2,130.8 1,862.0 2,174 1,501
Loaded Contairers (nos.)   -      -   1,115  4,331  6,813 12,636  19,324
1/ 1983 figures are estimates.
Source: IHA



- 21 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The Government of Tanzania has assigned high priority to expand-
ing and improving the operational efficiency of the country's port
system.  However, the THA does not presently have the capability to under-
take long-term port planning and engineering studies. A study, completed in
1974, was commissioned by the UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, to
examine ports of the then East African Community, including the Port of Dar
es Salaam, and to make recommendations with respect to the facilities and
investment required to handle forecast traffic.  A supplementary study,
completed in 1979, was used as the basis for a proposed Bank project,
preappraised in May 1979. As some of the cost estimates were considered
to be insufficiently precise, appraisal was deferred arid an Engineering
Credit (Cr.S24-TA) was approved by the Bank in 1979 to finarnce detailed
engineering.  Later, in December 1981, supplementary studies were carried
out to focus on the highest priority items. These studies provided the
base for the proposed project which comprises part of the transport sector
investment component of the Governmernt's structural adjustment program.
3.02      Ihe succession of reports is an indication of the rapid expansion
and change in port operations from a lighterage port to a conventional
general cargo port and recently into container operations.  Significant
factors that have affected the port are: (a) the break-up of the Community
which forced Tanzania to develop its own port management and operations
structure; (b) the development of the TAZARA railroad which offered
increased scope for transhipment operations; and (c) the rapid shift to
containerization of general cargo. The port was originally designed to
handle general cargo by conventional means. It is ill-equipped to cope
with rapid growth in containerized traffic or large container ships.
In order to meet the needs of Tanzania, exploit its favorable location and
offer fast, efficient transit service on a competitive basis to Zambia,
ZBR arid even possibly Malawi arid Uganda, it is essential that both the
physical facilities and the institutional capacity to handle traffic in
increasingly sophisticated form are improved. The proposed project
addresses the highest priority needs of the port and, in particular, the
ability to handle container vessels and grain ships expeditiously. It
should be rioted that the inland long distance flow of containers is largely
undertaken by rail, and both IRC and Tazara are including the necessary
provisions in their investment plans. Tanzanian cargo is largely destined
for Dar es Salaam in the first instance and container movements do not
present signficant problems. Development of the skills necessary to manage,
operate and maintain this new infrastructure are also addressed. THA arid
the main shippirig companies are in agreement that the proposed project
represents the priority areas to be addressed before Dar es Salaam can
become an efficient container port.
B. Objectives
3.03      The objectives of the project are to enable THA to provide
adequate port services to Tanzania, and landlocked neighbouring countries



- 22 -
by enabling THA to adapt to technological change in cargo handling,
particularly expansion of contairner operationfa, and to rehabilitate and
improve grain and petroleum handlirig operations.
3.04      Ihe project will:
(i)  create a modern container handling facility by the
conversion of existing general cargo berths (10 and 11);
(ii)  provide modern container handling equipment replace some
life-expired general cargo equipment and provide spare parts
for other general cargo equipment;
(iii) enable the port to discharge grain vessels more effectively,
thus avoiding excessive ship time alongside, and loss and
spoilage of grain by providing modern grain handling
equipment and 26,000 tons of silo storage within the
confines of the port;
(iv)  complete the rehabilitation of the existing lighterage
terminal, enabling the port to continue working at its
present capacity while the conversion of berths 10 and 11 to
a container facility is carried out;
(v) rehabilitate the existing Kurasini petroleum products
terminal;
(vi)  provide consultant services to provide engineering and
supervision services with respect to the proposed works; and
(vii)  provide trairiing of and technical assistance to, IHA staff
to ensure the start-up of the new port training school
(Bandari College), improve the control and handling of
containers, improve the present management information
services, and improve the maintenance and control of port
mechanical handling equipment.
C. Description
3.05      The physical elements of the proposed project are:
(i)  The Development of a Container Handling Facility
The existing general cargo berths 10 and 11 will be converted
to a container handling and storage facility. The existing
transit shed located on berths 10 and 11 will be dismantled
and re-erected as part of a Zambia transit traffic terminal
located outside the port. The civil works include the
rehabilitation of the port area behind the berths to
accommodate re-aligned railway networks for both the TRC and
TAZARA, the installat-ion of rails for gantry cranes, and
paving the container handling area.  Some paving work will be
carried out on berth 9 to upgradie the existing paving so that
present container operations can continue without



- 23 -
disruption.   A new roadway from the TAZARA copper depot to
bypass the future container facility will be built.
(ii)  Equipment
The equipment included in the proposed project for the
operation of the proposed container terminal consists of:
(i) Two quayside gantry cranes for containers;
(ii) One rail-mounted gantry crane for container transfer
to railway wagons;
(ii)  Six rubber tire gantry cranes for stacking containers
in the yards; and
(iv) Tractors and trailers for container handling.
(iii)  Grain Discharge and Handling, Improvements at Berth 4
Steel silos with 26,000 tons of storage capacity will be
constructed. These silos will be connected to the existing
NMC flour mill silos and to berth 4, where grain ships will
primarily be handled, by simple belt conveyors or by a
dedicated truck system. Mobile quayside pneumatic equipment
will be provided to extract the grain from the vessels and
transfer it to the conveyors using moveable hoppers. A
bagging plant, as well as truck and rail loading platforms
are also included in the project together with provision for
future installation of equipment for bulk operations by rail.
(iv) Rehabilitation of the Lighterage Terminal
During implementation of the proposed project, the need for
berths in the port to be taken out of service for conversion
to container operations and the installation of the grain
discharge facilities means that it is desirable that the
lighterage terminal is rehabilitated so that the port can
continue to operate at full capacity. Later, when the
project is completed, the lighterage terminal will
accommodate surges in deep sea and coastal traffic, as well
as service the vessels associated with the offshore petroleum
industry.
(v) Ihe Rehabilitation of the Kurasini Petroleum Products
Terminal
This jetty has been neglected over the years and, until very
recently, was in a dangerous condition with vessel owners
reluctant to berth. Although emergency repairs have been
carried out to reduce the risks, rehabilitation is needed
and the firefighting system must be renewed to meet
present-day standards.  It is planned to rehabilitate the
existing jetty which is a more cost effective solution than
the alternative of construction of a new jetty across the
harbour. lhe rehabilitation work includes civil, electrical
and pipeline works both on the jetty and ashore.



- 24 -
(vi)  Other Container and General Cargo Handling and Mainteriance
Equipment   Even when the new container terminal, is in
operion it is likely there will be some contairier traffic,
mainly in small consignmerits, heindled over the general cargo
berths. Thus some essentially replacement items for
container handling are included in the project; a container
handling forklift truck and a mobile crane, plus smaller
items of handlirng and moving equipment.  Also, as general
cargo traffic will decline only slowly and many items of
THA's mobile general cargo equipment are over-aged (average
age 8 to 9 years) replacement forklift trucks, tractors and
trailers, plus a crawler tractor for grain handling and three
mobile cranes, are included. Together with spare parts
provision (pars 3.05 (h)) THA should be able not only to
respond flexibly to unpredictable variations in traffic at
Dar es Salaam , but once the container terminal is fully
established to transfer equipment to the secondary ports of
Tanga and Mtwara where shortage of equipment is also in
evidence.
(vii)  Navi ational and Communications Equipment
]he tortuous nature of the entrance channel means that if
night navigation is to be provided, even for comparatively
small vessels, improved navigation aids will be necessary.
Also, good communications within the port are hampered by the
deteriorated state of equipment, which should be renewed
incorporating more modern technology. Both requirements are
provided for in the project.
(viii)  Spare Parts
Many exis ing equipment items--cranes, forklift trucks,
tractors and trailers are inoperative due to lack of spare
parts.  In many cases; inadequately recorded
"cannibalization" has taken place making accurate assessment
of the feasibility of rehabilitation difficult. Accordingly,
a detailed study is to be carrieid out, (see para 3.05 (k)
below) and spare part requirements in excess of that which
can be met from THA resources, determined. A maximum
provision of Tsh 30 million has been made.
(ix)  Consulting Services - Engineering and Supervision
The THA appointed engineering consultants Bertlin and
Partners of the United Kingdom, for the detailed engineering
work and the preparation, issue and evaluation of tenders.
To maintain continuity and avoid practical difficulties in
implementation, THA will retain the services of these
consultants. This is acceptable to the Association.
(x)  Technical Assistance and Training
There is an urgent need to upgrade port personnel in almost
all disciplines through in-service training programs. Many
departments apparently do not cornprehend their training needs
and therefore, it is necessary to identify training needs



- 25 -
more explicitly. Further, THA's training capacity is to be
expanded by upgrading the Bandari College, by increasing the
job training in the port and by increasing the number of
trainees.  lo make the Bandari College fully operational,
audio-visual aids, library books, and trainiing equipment will
have to be provided especially for the various training
workshops.  It is envisaged that three ports training
specialists will have to be recruited for the Bandari College
whose main task would be to assist in identifying training
needs in the port, organizing courses in agreement with the
appropriate port department and training and upgrading the
college instructors. Additionally, a mobile equipment
specialist would be needed. Besides about 50 manmonths of
overseas training for college instructors and port
operation's staff would be required. Details of the training
requirements are given in annexes 5 and 6.
(xi)  A study will be undertaken, by THA's present consultants, to
determine the requirement for spare parts for exisiting THA
equipment. This study will be completed by July 31, 1985.
3.06      During negotiations, agreement was reached with THA on the
composition and scope of technical assistance, and on a timetable for the
preparation of a manpower plan, to enable a comprehensive manpower training
program including a mechanism for annual review satisfactory to the
Association to be commenced by December 31, 1985.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
3.07      The total project cost is estimated to be 1Sh 1545 million
(US$91 million) of which US$59 million would be the foreign exchange
component. A financing plan has been arranged between Government of
Tanzania (GOT), IHA, the Association and bilateral sources. The bilateral
participation has been arranged in the course of discussions between GOT
and the individual bilaterals between December 1983 and September 1984.
While some bilaterals have or will subject their components to their own
appraisal processes, these processes are to confirm project cost estimates
and timetable for implementation to the satisfaction of the financing
source, and will not affect the committment to the project. However,
equipment suppliers (Danida and Finnida) have informally advised the
Association that their participationi is contingent upon Association
participation in the project.  THA is expected to finance all local costs.
The total project cost and financing plan are shown in Tables 3.1 and 3.2.
3.08      The proposed Association Credit of US$27 million will be onlent
to THA for a period of 20 years including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 11°o p.a. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and the THA, acceptable to the Association, would be a condition
of effectiveness. No exemption from taxes or duties will be permitted by
the Government for this project. Provision is made for taxes and duties in
the cost estimates. The local cost component will be mainly financed by
the THA, with funds allocated for the purpose from its reserves. The THA



- 26 -
will bear the foreign exchange risk.  Ihis has been agreed upon during
negotiations.  All cofinarncing commitments have been confirmed by the
respective cofiriaricers.  lhe signinrg of the agreements for the Danish,
Finnish and Norwegian grants, which are critical to the initial
implementation of the project, would be a conditiorn of effectiveness of the
IDA credit, with the Italian and Netherlands financial agreements to be
signed by June 30, 1985.
3.09       The estimates of costs shown in the Cost Table are on the basis
of detailed engineering by consultants Bertlin and Partners (UK) at mid
1984 prices for non-Association financed items and on the basis of actual
bid prices for Association financed works.
3.10      Consultant costs include about 120 man-months for supervision.
Technical assistance is included in the project to provide about 250 man
months for on-the-job training, formal instruction and development of
operations and maintenance procedures. Physical contingencies are based on
a percentage of the cost of each project element and average 6°%.  The price
contingencies are based on the following table; the high local rates take
into account the expected effect of 1983 arid 1984 devaluations.
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Escalation %0 - Foreign Costs:        8.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    7.5
(annual)      - Local Costs:        30.0   25.0   25.0   20.0   20.0
E.  Implementation
3.11      The Borrower will be the Governmernt of lanzania.  Implementation
of the proposed project will be the respons;Lbility of the THA with whom a
Project Agreement would be executed. The supervision of the civil works
and the procurement of the equipment will be carried out by consultants
appointed by the THA and financed from the proposed Credit. The IHA is
extremely short of qualified and experienced engineers and to ease the
burden of project management, the THA will appoint a project coordinator
who will be a suitably qualified engineer and who will be responsible to
the Director of Engineering's office in accordance with terms of reference
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The services of this
engineer will be financed by the British ODA and candidates have already
been interviewed. He will continue his coordination and liaison work
through to completion of the project, preparing such reports on
implementation as are required by the co-financiers and assisting in the
preparation and processing of withdrawal applications. The appointment of
this engineer will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.12      Implementation of the proposed project is expected to take five
years from the start of work on the main contracts. Prequalification has
been undertaken and tenders have been received for the principal civil
works. The award of contracts to be financed from the proposed credit will
be made after Board consideration. To assist the IHA in financing the
consultants' work for the final detailed engineering, preparation of tender
documents and evaluation of tenders, an advance from the Bank Group's
Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US$950,000 has been



- 27 -
arranged. This advance will be repaid from the proceeds of the proposed
credit as soon as it becomes effective. The proposed implementation
schedule is given in Chart 3 and has been agreed upon during negotiations.
Project Monitoring
3.13      For purposes of monitoring the project during implementatiorn, the
following matters were reviewed and agreed on with the IHA during
negotiations with respect to format and appropriate data to be provided by
IHA in quarterly reports to the Association (see Annex 7 and lable 3.3):
(a) progress of the project works with cost data;
(b)  training and technical assistance;
(c)  THA and the Port of Dar es Salaam financial
performance, including operating ratios and cash flow
requirements and overall operations;
(d)  equipment operation and maintenance (availability and
costs); and
(e) general and bulk cargo, container, RO-RO and grain
movements, berth utilization, ship waiting time and
productivity indicators.
3.14      IHA will be responsible for preparing a project completion report
within six months of the closing date of the proposed credit. This was
agreed upon during negotiations.
F. Environmental Aspects
3.15      Ihe proposed project will make no material change in the present
port environment with the exception that dust and spillage from the
discharging of grain vessels should be considerably reduced following the
completion of the new grain discharge facility. The rehabilitation of the
Kurasini petroleum products terminal will reduce the likelihood of
spillages and fire during normal operations.



- 28 -
G. Procurement
3.16      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below and
detailed in the following paragraphs.
US$ (million)
lotal
Project Component          ICB 1/     LCB 1/ I Other 2/1 NA 1/l Cost I
Kurasini Rehabilitation1                      i   3.2               3.2
Pipelines Diversion andj   4 0                          I |        4.0 i
Ligherquay Renovation     (0.3)                         1 l(0.3)1
Container lermitial and                                                I 37.8  I  I 37.8
Ubungo Depot,              3 (19.0)                               3    1
19.0I                                 I 90)
Grain Facility                                1  15.0   J       I 15.0 1
Project Equipment incl.1   0.7         1.8   |  19.5   I        | 22.0
Spare Parts           1  (0.7)      (1.8)                     1 (2.5)
Technical Assistance        2.3                   2.3              4.6
and Training             (1.7)                                  (1.7)
Training Equipment                     0.5                         0.5
I(0.5)                       (0.5)
Consultant Services                                       3.8      3.8
(3.0)   (3.0)
TOTAL                     44.8        2.3       40.0     3.8    91.0
(21.7)     (2.3)      (0)     (3.0)  (27.0)
1/  ICB - International Competitive Bidding; LCB - Local Competive Bidding;
NA - Not Applicable.
2/ In accordance with each bilateral agency's procedures and regulations.
Note:  Figures in parantheses are the amounts to be financed by the
Association.
3.17      Works: The construction of the civil works financed from the
proposed Credit would be procured by international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Association's guidelines. Eligible domestic
bidders would be afforded a preference of 7.5% under ICB procurement.
3.18      Goods:  Equipment and materials are expected to be mainly
procured by means of co-donor financing. Equipment or materials financed
from the proposed Credit would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines with eligible domestic bidders afforded a preference of 15%.
Training equipment, contracts for which are expected to be less than
US$50,000 (the total aggregate not exceeding US$500,000) will be procured
under local competitive bidding under Government procedures satisfactory to



- 29 -
the Association and in which foreign suppliers are eligible to participate.
Equipment spare parts will be procured on the same basis as training
equipment except that the total aggregate should not exceed US$1,750,000
and to ensure compatability with THA's existing equipment, items may be
procured directly from the original supplier.
3.19      lechnical Assistance and Training:  Ihese elements of the project
which will be financed under the proposed credit are estimated to have a
foreign exchange component cost of about US$1.7 million.  Ihey will be
provided by specialist consultant firm(s) who will be appointed from short
lists in accordance with the Association's guidelines.
3.20      Consultant Services:  Engirneering and supervision services with
respect to the proposed works, are expected to be provided by the firm of
consultants which has prepared the project.
3.21      NORAD financed works will be undertaken by a Norwegian contractor
appointed in accordance with procedures of the agency.  The Government of
the Netherlands will appoint a contractor to undertake the grain facility
work. Equipment (other than the training equipment to be financed by IDA)
will be supplied by Danish and Finnish manufacturers in accordance with
DANIDA and FINNIDA procedures, and by Italian manufacturers in accordance
with Italian Government procedures.
H. Disbursements
3.22      All disbursement requests shall be fully documented.  A schedule
of estimated disbursements is shown in Table 3.4.  The proceeds of the
proposed Credit are expected to be disbursed against the following
categories of expenditures. No withdrawals would be made in respect of the
rehabilitation and spare parts component (see (f) below) of about US$1.8
million until the rehabilitation study (para 3.05 (xi)) has been completed
and specific items prioritized.
(a)  civil works: 100%o of foreign costs;
(b)  PPF Advance for enigineering consulting services: 100%;
(c)  consultants for supervision of civil works: 100% of foreign
costs;
(d)  technical assistance and training: 100% of foreign costs;
(e)  training and workshop equipment; 100% of foreign costs; and
(f)  equipment spare parts; 100%o of foreign costs.
3.23      Assuming that the credit can be declared effective about March
1985, the project should be completed at latest by December 31, 1989, the
closing date of the credit being June 30, 1990.



- 30 -
3.24      In view of the simple nature of the works involved, the use of
foreign contractors, suppliers and consultants for the supervision, that
tenders have been received, and that contractors should be able to mobilize
on site rapidly after contract award, it is considered that the standard
Tanzania disbursement profile should not apply in this case. The project
should be completed within about five years of Board approval and not nine
years as provided in the Bank's standard profile for Tanzania.



- 3 1
TANZPNIA
PORI REHABILIATION PROJECT
Table 3.1 - APPRAISAL COS1 ESTIMAIE
Local ForeigT lotal  Local Foreion lotal   °,
TSh  Umillion)       TWElli)            Foreign
Excharie
A. Adva-ce Works
1. Kurasir Oil leniinal
Rehabilitation               15.3    23.8   39.1    0.9   1.4    2.3        61
2. Pipelire Diversicx               1.7     1.7    3.4    0.1   0.1    0.2        50
3. Lighterage Quay Renovation     34.0      3.4   37.4    2.0   0.2    2.2         9
SW-Total                      51.0    2B.9   80.1    3.0   1.7    4.7        36
B. Main Project Civil Works
1. Contairer Terminal and
Ubun  Depot                 160.0  270.0   430.0    9.4  15.9   25.3        67
2. Grain Facility                 42.5  144.5   187.0    2.5   8.5   11.0         78
SWb-Total                    202.5  414.5   617.0   11.9  24.4   36.3        71
C. Project Equipnent
Container and lburgo
Terminal Equipnet             6.8  214.2   221.0    0.4  12.6   13.0        97
Other Contairer Equiipwt        -     11.9    11.9    -       0.7    0.7    100
General Carqo EquipTet          -     28.9    28.9    -       1.7    1.7    100
Navigation & Connunication Eq.   3.0   13.6    16.6    0.2   0.8    1.0       80
8,are Parts                     -     30.6    30.6    -       1.8    1.8    100
Su-Total                     10.0  299.2   309.2    0.6  17.6   18.2        97
D. lechnical Assistance
and Irairuwg
lechnical Assistance           10.2   32.3    42.5    0.6   1.9    2.5        76
Iraining 2/                     5.1   20.4    25.5    0.3   1.2    1.5        80
SWb-Total                      15.3   52.7    68.0    0.9   3.1    4.0        78
E. Consulting Services 3/          11.9   42.5    54.4    0.7   2.5    3.2        78
lotal Baselire Costs              290.6  838.1  1,128.7   17.1  49.3   66.4       74
Physical Contingencies         33.0   36.0    69.0    1.9   2.1    4.0        53
Price Contingencies           219.0  129.0   348.0   13.0   7.6   20.6        37
Total Costs 4/                542.6 1,003.1  1,545.7   32.0  59.0   91.0      65
1/ Canversion rate Tsh 17.0   US$1.0.
2/ Includes US$400,000 training equipTent.
3/ Incluces lJS$950.00 fina-ced fran PPF avaece.
4/ Identifiable taxes ard duties are estimated at Ish 160 miflimn (US$9.4 million
equivalent) therefore ret of tax project cost is 1sh 1,385 millioa.



- 32 -
TANZANIA
PORI REHABILITAIION PRJECT
Table 3.2 - Project Fin'trir9 Plai (Tsh millions)
Project Carpanert      INORAD       IDA  I Netherlands |  DANIDA       FINNIDA   Italy    MA       TM
i                 I           I           I       I       L      I
Kuras"                            Foreign -                              I Local I
KurasIJ                I  28  1          1              1           I           I       I       1 26  1
Pipeline Diversion         2 8                                                                      26
Lighter Quay           I        1    321              *             I           I       I       1611
Container Tenrinal     I        I  325                              I           I       I       1318
and Ubuo Depot
Grain Facility         I        I        |    175       I           I           I       I       179
Equipment A            I        I        I              1   134    I                    I       1  7   I
B                I        I            I            I          116                    I   5   1
C            II             8 l 1             1                       I       I       I       I
D            I        I        I              I           I           |65   I          151
E                     I   341                 1           1           1       1       1
Tednical Assistance                                                             I       I       I
Baidari              1  12   1         1              1           1           1       1       1  6   1
;.gram CAArdination                               I                             i       1   6j   31
O0her                  I        1   251                 1           1           I       I       I9 I
Trainin                1 81           41                1           1           1       1       151
Training _quipment                    81                                                            3 1  1  1  131
Consultant Services    I            I  50  1            1           1                              14   1
TOTAL                  I  48   I  459  1    175         I   134    1   116    1 65   I   6  1 543   I
Equiprent A = Container gmtry cranes.
B = Container yard cranes and eqipient.
C = Workshop equWinent.
D = Other container equiprent, general cargo equipment, navigation and
comrunication aids.
E = Spare parts.



- 33 -
PORT REHABILIIAIION PROJECT
lable 3.3 - Dry Cargo Handling Rates
I           I  Average             Average        I      Average
I           I   Berth       I       Cargo/        I       Cargo
I           I    Time       I      Gang/Shift    I       Ship/day
Activity       (days)     I        (tonnes)     |       (tonnes)
I      _            I  _I_A _
Year   I 1981   11988 i    1981    1 1988  1   1981  1  1988    I
l~~_                                        I     __I.    11
IBreak bulk                 I             I       I          I          I
Main Quayl  7.9   17.5  I    48        150    1  422   1  450    I
Stream  1 7.5   17.0         40         45    1   159   1   200
|Bagged)    I         I     I    57       |65
Bulk grain 1 17.7   16.0  1    -                 1 I  718   1 2,400
IContainer    2.7           1    -        I       I85 IEU  I300 TEU
______I j____ I                                     ship/dayl ship/day I
Note:  The expected improvements in break-bulk handling are quite modest,
in view of the reasonably high level of efficiency presently
experienced, and the probability that as containerization proceeds,
the residual break-bulk cargo will be that with comparatively
difficult handlirng characteristics. Bagged cargo also has little
scope for improvement.  The main impact will be on bulk grain, and
on container traffic, where the improvement forecast are based upon
the technical characteristics of the new facilities.



- 34 -
TANZANIA
PORI REHABILITATION PROJECI
Table 3.4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                      -------US$ million equivalent --------
Fiscal Year                      Quarterly               Cumulative
and Quarter                  Disbursements              Disbursements
1984-85
June 30, 1985                      1.35                       1.35
1985-86
September 30, 1985                 2.00                       3.35
December 31, 1985                  2.20                       5.55
March 31, 1986                     2.20                       7.75
June 30, 1986                      2.20                       9.95
1986-87
September 30, 1986                 2.20                       12.15
Dlcember 31, 1986                  2.20                       14.35
March 31, 1987                     2.20                       16.55
June 30, 1987                      2.20                       18.75
1987-88
September 30, 1987                 2.20                       20.95
December 31, 1987                  2.20                       23.15
March 31, 1988                     2.20                       25.35
June 30, 1988                      0.30                       25.65
1988-89
September 30, 1988                 0.30                       25.95
December 31, 1988                  0.30                       26.25
March 31, 1989                     0.30                       26.55
June 30, 1989                      0.15                       26.70
1989/90
September 30, 1989                 0.15                       26.85
December 31, 1989                  0.15                       27.00



- 35 -
IV. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Future Traffic
4.01       The future levels of Dar es Salaam port traffic will be largely a
function of the speed with which the economies of lanzania and Zambia, and
to a lesser extent, ZBR, recover from the current recession. The pro-
portion of Zambian traffic transitting Dar es Salaam is not forecast to
change significantly, nor is that of ZBR traffic.  These assumptions may be
conservative, particularly regarding Zambian traffic, given1 that the
proposed project should significantly increase Dar es Salaam operational
efficiency and that there are prospects for improvement in the effective
capacity of TAZARA both in the short term, through assistance from Federal
Republic of Germany, and in the longer term, with Bank Group involvement.
4.02       In aggregate, non-petroleum traffic is forecast to recover by
1987 to rather less than the level recorded in 1977, and thereafter to grow
at under 3-1/2%o p.a. to 1992. While recovery and growth would be a
reversal of recent experience, it is generally accepted that imports,
excluding foodstuffs, are at a highly constrained level, both in Tanzania
and Zambia, that an easing of import restrictions is regarded as a
prerequisite for recovery in the export sectors, and that, with population
growing at 3.5% p.a., there is an underlying pressure for growth in the
aggregate levels of economic activity and, inter alia, foreign trade.
4.03       Traffic projections based upon a recently completed study by IHA
consultants are detailed in Tables 4.1 to 4.3.
Exports
4.04       In the period to 1988, and even thereafter, Tanzanian export
growth is likely to be slow and total exports will increase slightly to
288,000 tons in 1988 with, however, agricultural exports remaining at the
1981 level with a slow recovery thereafter to a level in 1992 about the
1976-81 average level.  The modest growth of non-agricultural exports is
expected from surplus production of paper and cement factories that will
shortly come into operation.
4.05       The main Zambian export is copper and both total exports and the
share transitting Dar es Salaam have declined from the levels of the
mid-1970's.  Total exports are forecast to remain stable at about
600,000 tons.  This is in line with industry forecasts.  The Dar es Salaam
share is predicted to remain at the level of the last recorded three years,
about 75% (446,000 tons in 1988) of total copper exports from Zambia.  In
view of prospective increases in TAZARA's effective capacity, and in that
of Dar es Salaam port, this is a conservative estimate. Other actual and
prospective exports of significanice are lead and zinc, exports of which are
expected to remain relatively stable at current levels.
4.06       The main ZBR exports are coffee and, from Zaire, copper and other
minerals. Coffee exports via Dar es Salaam are expected to be approxi-
mately stable through 1988, but thereafter better surface connections in
Tanzania through,Isaka are expected to result in doubling of Rwandan



- 36 -
exports of coffee through Dar es Salaam. Copper exports are constrained by
the lack of capacity on the TRC system (including the bottleneck port of
Kigoma). Ihe consultants realistically assume it will take several years
for these constraints to be overcome and consequently only a modest
increase in Zairian mineral exports via Dar es Salaam is forecast for 1988,
with a greater increase thereafter.
Imports
4.07      A significant proportion of total Tanzanian imports in recent
years has been for externally financed projects. On average, in 1979-80 to
1981-82 they accounted for 37°% of the imports by value. Many of the
projects so financed are operating below capacity because of raw material
and spare part shortages. Government, through its Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP), and aid agencies have indicated that the main thrust in the
next several years will be to ensure that these shortages are alleviated
rather than to commence new projects. It is against this background that
the Tanzanian import forecasts should be viewed.
4.08      Total Tanzanian dry imports are forecast to increase from 713,000
tons in 1981 to 905,000 tons by 1988. This ;s marginally higher than the
total reached in 1978. Grain and flour imports are expected to remain at a
high level, about 235,000 tons; lower than in 1981 but about double the
1978 level. The main explanation is the probable slow growth of domestic
grain production and a continued growth in population. Similarly, a return
to a more "normal" level of vehicle and machinery spare part imports is
predicted while import substitution in cement and paper should reduce
imports of these commodities. The main problem is the availability of
foreign exchange to pay for even this modest growth. Should this problem
not be resolved, imports may continue to be highly restrained.
Accordingly, the sensitivity analysis assumes non-grain imports remaining
at about the 1976-81 average of 558,000 tons to give total imports of
800,000 tons in 1988.
4.09      There are two critical factors determining the volume of Zambian
imports through Dar es Salaam: the total volume of imports (in turn
dependent upon Zambian economic conditions) aind the ability of the Dar es
Salaam route to provide a service comparable to the southern (essentially
The Republic of South Africa ERSA]) route.
4.10       Bank projections show copper prices increasing from $1592/ton in
1983 to $2402/ton by 1985 in current prices and accordingly, a recovery of
imports through Dar is forecast to approximately the average 1978-81 level
by 1987.  This is equivalent to an increase in volume of 34% over the
admittedly abnormally constrained 1981 level.  Supporting this projection,
there is no doubt that the Dar es Salaam route, if operated efficiently,
represents the lowest cost route by at least .20%. Even allowing for the
fact that some mining supplies inevitably oriiginate in RSA, there are
strong reasons for believing that the proportion of traffic passing through
Dar es Salaam will increase: (i) the project port improvements will make
the port attractive compared with the RSA alternatives; (ii) the rail
(TAZARA) system capacity and, hopefully, efficiency will also be improved;



- 37 -
and (iii) the advent of containerization provides a significant benefit, by
virtue of its suitability for "Through Bills of Lading", for a country
whose importers are relatively poorly represented at the port of entry, as
is the case at Dar es Salaam. The main features are a fairly stable level
of grain imports, reflecting increased demand due to population growth
being offset by increased domestic production, arid a recovery in the broad
range of intermediate and consumer goods which were heavily constrained in
volume in 1981.
4.11      ZBR imports are mainly for Burundi.  The future ZBR imports are,
therefore, primarily a function of the growth of Burundian imports, the
share handled by Dar es Salaam, and the possible penetration of the Dar es
Salaam route into the Zairian and Rwandan traffic. Burundi imports are
expected to grow in line with the forecasts made in the Bank's study
("International Transportation Bottlenecks Affecting Rwarida and Burundi"),
and the Dar share should lie in the 40-45% range. The Dar es Salaam share
has fluctuated between 82%o arid 34%0' and there is little doubt that the
deficiencies of the lake-rail service via Kigoma and TRC have been the
cause of the decline to the lower percentage. How quickly these inland
transport problems can be addressed is problematical, but attention has
been focused on them by a CIDA-financed study published in 1981, ("Tanzania
Railways Iransport Sector Study", by W.F. Crandall), and in an
EEC-sponsored meeting in February 1982 to discuss the Central (and Northern
via Kenya) Transport Corridor development. If these transport problems are
addressed, the share of traffic on the Dar es Salaam route, which is the
shortest and cheapest for Burundi, could irncrease. Taken together with the
assumption that Rwandan traffic through Dar es Salaam will remain stable
through 1987, the aggregate ZBR import is forecast to increase by 27%' by
1987.
4.12      For 1992, however, a marked shift in Rwaridari imports routing is
envisaged due to the prospective improvement in land/rail connections via
Isaka on the TRC system with an increase in the Dar es Salaam share to 15%'
to 20%o (about 40,000 tons) in 1992.
Container Penetration
4.13      A high proportion of non-bulk traffic, some 80%o to 85%' by
consultant estimates, is containerable.  In 1982, only about 10% actually
was containerized. Ihe critical determinant of future container traffic
is, therefore, the speed of pernetration rather than the overall growth of
traffic.  Consultants analysis, which assumes that by 1987 only the
European and North American routes would have full container services,
indicates that by that time about 500,000 tons, or 23%' of non-bulk traffic
would be conitainerized. Ihis seems low, particularly in view of the
attractions of containerization for land-locked countries and a more rapid
build-up to 600,000 tons is accordingly forecast. This should increase to
about 1,100,000 tons by 1992. The forecast traffic volumes for 1987 and
1992, disaggregated by country and mode of handling (container, bulk and
residual general cargo), are shown in Table 4.3.



- 38 -
B. Project Benefits
4.14       Three main features of the prospective operations of the port in
the short and long terms, without or with the project, can be discerned.
First, with an undramatic forecast rate of :Lncrease in traffic, operating
conditions would not become intolerable without the project for three or
four years.  Secondly, because the work on berth 9 and on 10/11 follow
sequentially with an overlap of the latter with grain terminal work, there
will inevitably be disruptions to normal port activity in 1985 and 1986.
As a result of this, the effective capacity of the main berths will be
reduced from 11 to about 9-3/4 during this period. Thirdly, as a result,
the provision in advance of the main works of adequate lighterage
facilities is desirable to enable some diversion of traffic from the main
berths while the main works are executed.
4.15       In analyzing the net economic benefits of operational improve-
ments, the following procedure has been adopted: (i) the justification for
lighterage investment is demonstrated; (ii) the benefits and costs of the
main works (repaving berth 9, conversion of berths 10/11 to container
terminal, provision of grain handling facility) are analyzed assuming that
adequate lighterage facilities will be provided. In these calculations,
the lighterage investment and increased operational costs are included as
part of the project.
4.16       To make the above calculations, a number of assumptions have had
to be made.  These are based on consultants' operational assessments
modified in the light of experience at other ports. ihey are: (i) general
cargo will be handled at about 540 tons per day average of bagged and break
bulk cargo; (ii) container traffic would be handled at about 85 TEU (1,000
tons) per operating day without the project, increasing to 300 TEU with the
project; (iii) the grain facility will increase discharge rates from about
700 to 2,400 tons per day; (iv) lighterage will be employed only after main
berth occupancy reaches 80%, except for a base lighterage traffic of
100,000 tons per year resulting from seasonal and other fluctuations in
traffic; and (v) container traffic will rise to 610,000 tons by 1987 and
1,096,000 tons in 1992, on the best traffic forecasts. Obviously, these
assumptions are all subject to margins of error. However, it is clear that
two features emerge: (i) container traffic will continue to grow rapidly
and (ii) realization of the benefits of this development will be frustrated
if appropriate facilities and equipment are not provided. This is
demonstrated in the calculations below of berth utilization and resulting
ship waiting time.



- 39 -
Berth Utilization and Ship Waiting lime
1981   1982    1988   1992
Without Project                         Act    Est        Forecast
Utilization %                             80    83        93    100 1/
SWT (days) 3/                            400   675      3167   3167
With Project
1. With Container Terminal
only utilization %                                   90     83
SWI days                                           1420    624
2. With Container Terminal
anid Grain Facility
utilization                                         80     74
SWI days                                           402    227
1/  Assumed increase in occupancy beyond 93%O translated into "paper
quere" of ships and actual SWI remains constarnt.
Civil Works and Container Facilities
4.17      The works to be undertaken on berths 9, 10 and 11 will inevit-
ably cause disruption of activity over these berths, adding to pressure on
the capacity of other mainline berths and through that, to demand for
lighterage facilities. There is thus a need for the lighterage wharf to be
rehabilitated as soon as possible. Ihis work is expected to be completed
about two years before the main container terminal, and during this period
would partly offset the reduction in effective capacity of the port. Ihe
beneficial effect wuld be at least the equivalent of 300 swd per year
during the two years, or US$1.8 million per year. As the facility will
cost only US$3.0 million equipvalent to rehabilitate, almost all in local
costs, and will generate some additional benefits, which however are
difficult to quantify with acceptable precision, in handling surges in
traffic after the project is completed. The facility has a payback period
of under two years and its inclusion in the project is well justified.
4.18      Despite stagnation in total traffic, containerized traffic has
grown rapidly in the last three years. It has now reached the level where
further growth could be inhibited for lack of suitable space behind the
berths to receive containers from ships, to stow them prior to transit to
inland destinations, and to prepare them for outward loading with or
without export cargo.
4.19      The effective capacity of the port is a function of (i) the time
containers stay in the port area (the "dwell" time), (ii) the available
area for storage and the density of storage, i.e., the number of containers



- 40 -
that can be stored in a given area. The dwell time in port is partly a
function of port storage tariffs, alternative storage space, and the
general efficiency of container operatiorns. Tariff measures are being
taken by IHA to increase the incentive to move containers out of the port,
and the project will, in addition, provide storage facilities outside the
port area. In addition, an increase in the number of movements should
enable operational procedures to become smoother, resulting in faster
movement through the port. This will, however, require expertise arid
training which will be provided under the technical assistance and training
component of the project.
4.20      The area available for storage wi:ll be increased by (i) reorgan-
izing the layout of berths 9, 10, and 11, including the removal of
unclaimed goods which presently occupy space behind the transit shed on
berths 10/11 and, (ii) removal of the trans.Lt shed and its re-erection
outside the port area. The density of storage will be approximately
doubled as a result of adoption of new handling methods, based upon gantry
cranes in the storage area, compared with the present forklift truck
system.
4.21      The net effect of the above measures is that the container
handling capacity of the port will be increased to about 120,000 TEU per
year. This exceeds the container traffic forecast for 1992. Without the
project, only limited improvements could be made and the capacity would not
exceed about 30,000 TEU per year, and could well be constrained to a lower
figure through organizational weaknesses.
4.22      Should container traffic growth be restricted by lack of
facilities, there would be three main result:s.  First, more traffic would
move in general cargo form, with a resultant decrease in berth productivity
and increase in congestion. Secondly, the speed of discharge and loading
of containers would be reduced. Thirdly, the benefits from containeriza-
tion in terms of reduced cargo damage arid Iciss would be correspondingly
reduced.. The economic costs resulting from these factors constitute the
measurable benefit from this project element.  Furthermore, and more
problematically, the port's role as a transit port for Zambian and ZBR
traffic could be reduced, with consequent loss of foreign exchange earnings
for Tanzania. The extent of this decline is difficult to predict and the
net economic costs even more so, and these effects have, therefore, not
been included in the economic analysis.
4.23      The unit benefit streams are based upon (i) 1984 estimated costs
of waiting time in port for ships, and (ii) for calculation of benefits
from damage and loss avoidance, an estimated reduction in insurance costs
equivalent to about 1/2% of average c.i.f. value of general cargo
multiplied by the volumes of container traffic in excess of that which
could be handled efficiently without the project.
Grain Handling
4.24      The present bulk grain handling methods are primitive.  Discharge
from the ship is either via a vacuvator of limited capacity, or by grab
with the grain then being loaded directly into trucks.  There is



- 41 -
substantial spillage, and, with year-round activity, spoilage during the
rainy season. The wastage and spoilage have been estimated by the
consultants to be equivalent to about 2-1/2%O' of volume in aggregate.
Additionally, the overall discharge rates are very slow, partly due to the
poor state of the equipment, partly to shortage of trucks. The net result
is that discharge rates vary between about 650 and 1,000 tons per day,
averaging about 750 tons per day and resulting in an 18,000 ton ship (the
norm for wheat) taking up to a month to discharge. It is not uncommon for
two ships to overlap with the result that two berths can be pre-empted for
long periods.
4.25      The proposed facility should largely eliminate these deficien-
cies. Grain will be discharged in covered conditions, at a high rate (of
up to 300 tons per hour) and conveyed by conveyor belt or a truck shuttle
service to storage. An average discharge rate of 3,000 tons per day should
be achieved and, on that basis, berth occupancy by grain ships should be
reduced by about 75%. This reduction constitutes the first benefit. In
association with this, the demurrage payments resulting from excessive time
spent at berth by ships should be virtually eliminated. Details of these
payments are not readily available for Tanzania and Zambia cargo, but based
upon experience elsewhere are estimated at up to US$500,000 p.a. Finally,
significant (i.e. about 50%°) elimination of loss and spoilage constitutes a
major benefit. Employing wheat as the main import, the benefit will amount
to about US$6.0 per ton.
Kurasini Oil Jetty
4.26      The Kurasini Oil Jetty (KOJ) is in a hazardous condition and the
alternatives are to repair and re-equip or rebuild elsewhere. Rebuilding
(a site at Kigomboni on the other side of the harbor has been considered)
would enable larger ships to be accommodated. However, with a virtually
static volume of petroleum product traffic, larger consignments would lead
to more infrequent deliveries. The net benefit from larger ships would,
therefore, be small and, as the jetty cannot be used for any other traffic,
the reduced occupancy would confer no benefits. Accordingly the project
provides for rehabilitation of the existing jetty to its original state.
4.27      The benefits from this project element are, therefore, the sub-
stantial reduction in the risk of conflagration that could be induced by
the present state of KOJ, and which could not readily be controlled with
the existing fire fighting equipment. Ihe potential benefit, accordingly,
ranges between zero (if no accident occurred) and a sum well in excess of
the rehabilitation cost if it did (a product tanker and its cargo of the
size employed to service Dar would be worth about US$25-30 million in 1983
prices). An ERR calculation is, therefore, not meaningful for this project
component. The cost has, however, been included without attributiori of
benefit, in the calculation of total project ERR.
4.28      The economic cost and ben1efit streams are shown in lable 4.4.
The ERR on the overall project is 33%0; on the container terminal and
associated equipment it is 37%0 and on the grain facilities 47%'.  lhe rate
of return in the first full year of operation (1988) is 29% indicating the
project is already overdue.



- 42 -
Benefit Distribution
4.29       Shipping services to Dar are highly competitive with conferences
forced to monitor carefully rates charged by non-conference lines and
adjust their.rates accordingly.  Thus, benefits related to avoidance of
increasing and excessive congestion, with resultant ship delays, can be
expected to be translated directly into shared benefits to Tanzania, Zambia
and ZBR.  In the absence of a better allocation mechanism, the assumption
is that the share of these benefits is proportionate to traffic. The
reduction in damage can be expected to benefit consignee and consignor
equally, while the grain facility benefits (loss and spoilage and
demurrage reduction) are attributed to Tanzania and Zambia in proportion to
their grain traffic.  On this basis, Tanzania obtains more than 50%O of
total benefits directly. The secondary effects are difficult to estimate;
if Dar es Salaam provides superior service to other ports serving Zambia
and ZBR it may be able to increase its tariffs in real terms and thus
Tanzanian foreign exchange earnings. Most probably, however, other ports
will also improve and accordingly secondary effects are not included.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
4.30       A sensitivity analysis was conducted on the total project,
employing the following assumptions separately or in combination:
(i)  total non-petroleum traffic reduced by an average of 13° from
2.35 million tons to 2.04 million tons in 1988, and from 2.78
million tons to 2.42 million tons in 1992, with proportionate
decreases in intervening years. These reductions give aggregate
traffic in 1988 nearly 10%°o below the 1976-81 average;
(ii)  investmernt costs increased by 10%o;
(iii)  a slower than forecast growth of container traffic, reaching only
400,000 tons in 1988 (rather than the level of over 500,000 tons
indicated by a reduction proportionate to that described in (i)
above); and
(iv)  a lower capacity to handle containers reasonably efficiently
without the project (20,000 TEU per year) than in the base
assumption (para 4.21).



- 43 -
Sensitivity ERR
I      Traffic          Iraffic                (c)             Efficiency 2/  I
I       and          i                    Container 1/           -33%"a'l
I        Operations   (a)    (b)        Penetration -20%   I  Traffic -13%    I
I  Best| -13%  |      Traffic -13   1l
ICosts                      I       I  l                   I
Best estimate    133  I  12                .11           I       23
I    I       I                       I                  I
____________          IL     I                        I     .i
+10%           130111   1
I~~~~~~~~ ,1             1    i                       I                   I
1/ See paragraph 4.30 (iii).
2/  See paragraph 4.30 (iv) .
4.31      The results of the sensitivity analysis shows that a project cost
increase will not have a major effect on the ERR, but that reduced
projected traffic will, whether accompanied by reduced containerization or
not.  The reasons are clear; currently the port is not heavily congested
arid generous assumptions have been made in the base case as to the IHA's
ability to handle container traffic through an improvement in the
efficiency of operations.  Whether THA can in fact improve their efficiency
significantly without external assistance is doubtful and the result of
assuming a smaller improvement in productivity (para 4.30 (iv)) is to
increase the sensitivity ERR on the reduced traffic scenario from 12 to
23%. Alternatively, the sensitivity traffic reduction can be doubled, to
about -25%° on best estimate, and a project ERR of 12%°o would still be
obtained. With respect to the grain facilities, even if traffic were only
50%D of that forecast, the ERR would still be over 20%,o. The ERR in the
sensitivity analyses, which range between 11 and 30%o compared with an ERR
of 33%O from the best estimate, are considered acceptable.
D. Project Risks
4.32       The first risk is that even the modest growth in traffic forecast
will not materialize. In this connection it is noted that the aggregate
level forecast for 1987 is only 7%0 above the 1976-81 average arid 10%O below
the peak level of 1977. In any case the main physical focus of the project
is in provision of container facilities, the demand for which is certain to
grow, and for improved handlirng of declining but substantial levels of
grain imports. The second risk is of costs exceeding estimates. There is
no guidance from recent experience as port work of this magnitude has not
been undertaken in Tanzania for several years.  In consequence receipt of
bids on the Association financed component of the project were required
before finalizing the cost estimates herein.   The third risk is that
institutional improvements will not materialize even at the modest rate



- 44 -
projected. The fact that the introduction of new technology associated
with containerization normally induces improved managerial methods (use of
computers etc.) should, however, minimize this risk.



- 45 -
IANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECI
Table 4.1 - NN--PETROLELM TRAFFIC FORECAST ITIHUM DAR ES SALAPM PORT 1/
1988-1992
(0'00 tais)
1981    1982  1983   1988   1989   1990  1991   1992
EXPORTS         Actual 1/
Taa,zaia     234.3                   288   305   342   363   384
ZaTbia       430.0                   521    519   512   505   497
ZBR           88.7                    97    10B   135   151    168
Total     753.0   715   618    906   932   989   1019  1049
IMPORTS
leaiania     712.9                   905   930   983  1010  1034
Zanbia       337.5                   453   466   495   510   525
ZBR           58.6                    86    98   129   148   170
Total    1109.0  1459   883    1444  1494  1607  1668  1729
AGGREGATE
laiza-tia    947.2                  1193  1265  1325   1373  1418
ZaTbia       767.5                   974   985  1007  1015  1022
ZBR          147.3                   183   206   264   299   338
Total    1862.0   2174  1501    2350  2456  2596  2687  2778
1/ Malaian and Uqada traffic which has recently carenced roving through Dar es Salaan is not
incluied in the above forecasts due to difficulty in estimation of future trends.



- 46 -
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECI
Table 4.2 - FORECAST OF COMMODlIY IRAFFIC IHROUGH DAR ES SALAAM PORI
1987-1992
(000 tons)
1988                          1992
IMPORT                        Tanzania   Zambia   ZBR       Tanzania   Zambia   ZBR
Grain, Flour and Malt             240       72      na         200         68      na
Dairy Products                     23        4       na         32          5      na
Cement                             12        -        -  I       5          _       _
Fertilizers                        82       29        5        101         33      13
Paper                              12       16       -  I5                  8       0
Lubricating Oil and Greases        29       13      na          34         16      na
Machinery, Motor Vehicles,
and Spares                      93      47       17  1      133         56     38
Metal Sheets, Pipes, etc.          87       36       10  I     127         42      25
Other Imports                     327      236      54         397        297      94
TOIAL NONPEIROLEUM IMPORTS        905      453      86  I    1034         525    170
EXPORI
Grain and Flour                    12       10        -  I      12         15       _
Cotton, Cotton Seed Cake and                             I
other Oilseeds                  92       10       3         111         15      4
Coffee                              4        -      35  1       12                  4
Tea                                13        -        3         17          -       4
Sugar and Molasses                 25        8       -I         37         10       4
Tobacco                            10        3                I  14         5       -
Other Agricultural Commodities   61          -        -       I  78         _       _
Paper                               8        -        -         17          -
Copper                              -      446      30           7        409      50
Lead and Zinc                       -       41       20           -        39      25
Other Minerals                     13        3        3         29          4       4
Cement                              8        -        -_         8          4       4
Other Exports                      42        -        3  1      49          -      11
TOTAL NONPETROLEUM EXPORTS        288      521      97         384        497    168



47 -
TANZANIA
Table 4.3 - PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Forecast Traffic
AGGREGATES AND BY HANDLING METHODS
Imports                              1988                         1992
Tanzania                   905                         1034
Zambia                     453                          525
ZBR                         36                          170
Total         1444                         1729
Exports
Tanzania                   288                          384
Zambia                     521                          497
ZBR                         99                          168
Total          908                         1049
Grand Total  2350                          2778
By Mode                    Cont.    Bulk    Other    Cont.        Bulk    Other
gc                           gc
Imports
Tanzania         207       229       469       338      216       480
Zambia           113        67       273       192       66       267
ZBR               25                  61       66         -       104
Total    345       296       803 1    596        282      851
Exports
Tanzania          90        25       173      160        40       184
Zambia           155         8       358      245        10       242
ZBR              -20         -        7995                -        73
Total    265        33       610       500        50      500
Grand Total    610        329      1413     1096       332      1351
=====~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~ ===  =====



- 48 -
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITA1ION PROJECT
Table 4.4 - Economic Costs and Benefits
(US5 million)
1985    1986        1987    1988        1992
Total Costs                           13.0    25.0        23.0      2.9 1/
Total Benefits                                                    25.0 -    28.1
Container Terminal
and Ubungo Depot
Costs                              8.0      16.3      16.0      (2.5 2/)
Benefits Total                                                  15.4 -    23.8
(i)   SWT Avoidance                                           14.7       21.3
(ii)  Damage reduction                                          0.7        2.5
Grain Facility
Costs:                                2.1      4.6       4.0        -          -
Benefits Total                                                   9.6        4.3
(i)   SWT Avoidance                                            8.5        3.3
(ii)  Grain Loss Reduction                                     0.6        0.5
(iii) Demurrage Reduction                                      0.5        0.5
Other Costs 3/                       2.9       4.1       3.0       2.9 1/    -
1/   US$2.9 milion p.a. 1988 and 1989.
7/   Additional equipment estimated US$2.5 p.a. 1988-1990.
3/   Kurasini lighterwharf other container and general cargo equipment, spares,
technical assistance and training, consultancy.



- 49 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Tanzania Harbours Authority was established in 1977 under Ihe
Tanzania Harbours Authority Act of 1977 to maintain and operate the ports
in Tanzania. Prior to the establishment of THA, the ports in Tanzania were
administered by the East African Harbours Corporation which ceased to exist
with the demise of the East African Community.
5.02      Effective from October 1977 the assets and liablities of the East
African Harbours Corporation pertaining to Tanzania were taken over by
THA. The records of accounts of the East African Harbours Corporation and
the East African Cargo Handling Services have been taken as the basis for
determing the assets and liabilities. The value of fixed assets have been
taken from the asset registers (the assets were revalued in 1975 on the
basis of a report by consultants Coopers and Lybrand, (UK)) and 49% of the
loan liability reflected in the accounts as of October 1977 have been
adopted. The fixed assets have also been physically verified and listed
and also evaluated by a task force of the MCW. Since this did not reveal
any material discrepancies with the accounts figures, no accounting
adjustment is being made until the details are worked out on the recent
agreement on the allocation of assets and liabilities of the East African
Community. Because of the delay in the compilation of the accounts, there
has been a delay in their audit and certification; but this is expected to
be remedied shortly (para 2.08).
B. Past Performance
5.03      The unaudited accounts of THA show a satisfactory financial
position. THA has recorded an operating surplus in all years since its
inception and has been able to accumulate fairly substantial cash reserves
amounting to ISh 453 million by the end of fiscal year 1983. Details of
the operating statement and the balance sheet for the years 1979 (the first
full year of operation of IHA) to 1983 are given in Tables 5.1 and 5.2.



- 50 -
5.04       Condensed operating statements for the years 1979 to 1983 are
given below:
Summary Operating Statements
ISh million)
Year Ended June 30               1979     1980    1981      1982    1983
Operating Revenue                 520      524      664      726      755
Operating Expenses
(including depreciation)          419      488      487      566     630
Surplus        101       36      177      160      125
Operating revenues have increased by about 27%o in 1981 because of the
increased tariff that was introduced in January 1981.  The 16%°o increase in
operating expenses in 1980 as compared to 1979 was due to the increase in
salaries and wages that was agreed with the staff union.
5.05       Condensed balance sheets for the years 1979 to 1983 are given
below:
Summary Balance Sheets
(TSh million)-
1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
Assets
Fixed Assets - Net                   905        856      931        873       825
WIP                                   200       220       105        99       117
Investments                            21        44       47        43         34
Current Assets - Net                  533       572       578      613        679
Total Assets           1659      1692      1661      1628      1655
Liabilities
Loans                                 390       378      374        372       383
Equity: Treasury Grant/Capital          4        16        28        32        79
Retained Earnings                   1265      1298      1259      1224       1193
Total                  1659      1692      1661      1628      1655
Debt/Equity Ratio                   24/76    22/98    23/77    23/77    24/76
Return on net fixed
assets -'%'                        11        4         19        18        15
The net current assets at the end of fiscal year 1983 include cash reserves
totalling Tsh 453 million (Table 5.2). The current assets also include



- 51 -
stores of ISh 47 million and sundry debtors of ISh 247 million representing
about 2.5 months consumption of stores and about four months revenue, which
figures are satisfactory.  Much of the outstanding revenue represents dues
from Government departments.  IHA is making efforts to clear the
outstandings.  During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
that appropriate measures will be taken to ensure that from September 30,
1985, aggregate dues from Government departments do not exceed the total
amount billed to the departments during the previous 90 days.
C.  Financial Forecasts
5.06      Financial projections up to 1990 have been made based on
unaudited accounting data up to 1983 and the anticipated increase in
traffic and expenses for the future. Ihe following assumptions have been
used in the projections:
(a) Revenues are based on the traffic forecasts given in chapter
IV. Shipping charges are based on the percentage increase in
ships and their gross registered tonnage (GRI). Wharfage
charges on import and export traffic are covered by an ad
valorem rate.  Berthing charges arid port dues are based on an
increase in the number of ships arid their GR1. Handling
charges are based on the increase in traffic.  A 10%O tariff
increase has been provided in fiscal year 1984 arid further
increases of 30%0 in 1985, 15%o in 1986, 20%,o in 1987 and 1988
and 25%a' thereafter to provide for the annual increases in
expenses since 1983 and the resources required to meet the
debt service charges.  IHA is presently undertakirng a costing
study (para 2.14) and depending upon the speed of its
implementation, other tariff increases may be introduced.
However, THA will probably be in a stronger position to press
for a program of substantial tariff increases once the
proposed project is firmly underway.
(b)  Expenses have been increased at 30%O per annum for inflation
in 1984 arid 1985, at 25%°o in 1986 and 1987, and at 20%Oo
thereafter less a nominal reduction of 2%O' on account of
anticipated reduction in staff.
(c) Depreciation has been calculated on a straight line basis
using the commonly accepted standard rates currently applied
by IHA and on the assumption that the project assets will be
commissioned by 1989.
(d)  Foreign exchange cost of the project amounting to TSh 1003
million will be financed from credits, loans or grants
provided by the Bank Group and other aid agencies. The
proceeds will be on-lent to THA by the Government at an
interest rate of 11%o per annum and repaid in 20 years,
including a grace period of 5 years.  Local costs of the
project will be financed by IHA.  The foreign exchange risk
will be borne by IHA but the fluctuations in foreign exchange
are not reflected in the financial statements.



- 52 -
(e)  Besides the project investment, an amount of ISh 20 million
per annum has been included for small items of a capital
nature. Ihese would be financed by THA.
(f)  Debt service charges shown in the cash flow statement include
repayment of the loans taken over from the East African
Harbours Corporation.
Details of the financial projections are given in Tables 5.3, 5.4
and 5.5.
D. Projected Operating Statements
5.07      The projections show that there will be an operating surplus each
year between 1984 and 1990, though the level, of surplus will be below those
achieved in the past. Ihis is mainly because of the estimated increase in
expenses. The proposed tariff increases will enable THA to generate
enoughfunds to meet its escalating costs and debt service charges. During
negotiations agreement was reached with THA and the Government that, based
on the actual annual operating results   of THA, the cash requirements of
THA will be reviewed on the basis of the costing study being undertaken
(para 2.14) and adequate tariff increases introduced so that sufficient
surplus is generated to meet all operating expenses, debt service charges
and new investment costs.  Condensed operating statements are given below:
Projected Operating Statement
ISh millions)
1984     1986    1988    1990
Revenues                    819      1258    1811    2830
Working Expenses            717      1129    1667    2401
Depreciation                 69        71       73     133
Surplus       33        58      71      296
E.  Projected Cash Flow
5.08      The annual cash flow is expected to be very satisfactory till the
end of FY1986 (cash balance ISh 96 million) because of the satisfactory
operating results, dependent on the tariff increases that are envisaged and
the limited debt service obligations. Provision has been made for annual
repayments of the loans that have been taken over from the old East African
Harbours Corporation and also of the new debt: incurred for the project.
(Repayment of the latter will commence from fiscal year 1989). By the end
of FY1986, THA would have incurred TSh 401 million towards the local costs
of the project, leaving a balance of ISh 141 million to be incurred during
the next three years. Because of this substantial investment, THA will be



- 53 -
unable to meet its various obligations without a short-term loan of
Tsh 7 million in 1987 and 1Sh 30 million in 1988. Taking these loans into
account, THA will be left with a limited cash balance in 1987-1989; but
with the completion of the project investments and an improvement in
operational results, THA, in 1990, will have a closing cash balance of
TSh 61 million after repaying these short-term loans of TSh 37 million.
A summary of the cash flow statement is given below:
Projected Cash Flow
(ISh millions)
Funds Required                      1984      1986       1988      1990
Project                               -       664          9          3
Other Investment                     20        20         20         20
Corporation Tax                      63        52         24       151
Debt Service                         16        16         16         79
Working Capital                     (13)       11         10         20
Total                         B6      763         79        273
Funds Available
Opening Cash                        453       415          7          3
Net Surplus                          32        13        (27)       195
Depreciation                         69        71         73       133
Loans                                -        431         36          3
lotal                        554      930         89        334
Closing Cash                 468      167         10         61
5.09      Although there is a satisfactory cash balance at the end of the
project period, it is dependent on the estimated revenues (based on
appropriate tariff increases) and a limitation on the anuual capital
investment to be incurred by IHA.  To safeguard IHA's cash position it
was agreed durirng negotiations that Government and THA will consult with
the Association prior to making any capital investment not included in the
project, involving in any financial year an aggregate amount in excess of
US$2 million.
5.10      THA should continue to maintain a reasonable relationship between
net cash revenue and debt service requirements. During negotiations it
was agreed that, unless the Association otherwise agrees, THA would not
incur any debt if its net cash revenues for the fiscal year or the 12
months immediately before the date of occurrence, whichever is greater,
would be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements of any
succeeding fiscal year.



- 54 -
F. Projected Balance Sheet
5.11       Due to the profitability of the operations, the satisfactory cash
position and the low level of long-term debt service requirements, the
projected balance sheets show a favorable position. They are given in
detail in Table 5.5 and summarized below:
Condensed Balance Sheets
(ISh millions)
1984       1986       1988       1990
Net Fixed Assets                             776S       675         570       1822
Work in Progress                              25        900       1435          25
Net Current Assets                           681        387         218        355
Total           1482       1962       2223        2202
Loans                                        392       1142       1318        1169
Equity:
(i) Treasury Grant/Capital                    95        568        778        979
(ii) Retained Earnings                       995        252        127         54
Total           1482       1962        2223       2202
Debt/Equity Ratio                          26/72      58/42      59/41      53/47
5.12       The fixed assets reflect the value of assets taken over from the
East African Harbours Corporation and East African Cargo Handling Services
as well as assets acquired by THA since 1977 and those expected to be
acquired during the forecast period. The old assets had been revalued in
1975 on the basis of the report of consultants appointed by the East
African Harbours Corporation to review the assets and assign reasonable
values to them depending on their technical condition and expected
remaining useful lives. The assets acquired since 1977 have been shown at
their acquisition costs. In view of the prevailing inflationary conditions
it will be advisable to revalue the assets periodically and to adjust
suitably the depreciation charges. Accordingly, during negotiations it
was agreed with the Government and THA that the assets will be revalued
on the basis of replacement costs not later than June 30, 1987 and every
three years thereafter.  To enable THA to have sufficient financial
resources to meet its operating expenses including depreciation, debt
service charges and additional investments in capital assets, it was also
agreed with Government and THA that all appropriate measures will be taken
to ensure that the net operating revenues will be sufficient to yield
annual rates of return on net fixed assets in use, as periodically
revalued, of not less than 7%.  However, since the rate of 7%0 might be
difficult to achieve in the two years immediately following the revaluation



- 55 -
of assets without a very large increase in tariffs, agreement was also
reached io the effect that a review would be made of IHA's finances in the
same year as the completion of the revaluation of assets, at which time
agreement  would be reached among the Government, IHA and the Association on
an approoriate rate of return for the subsequent years that would reflect
the adequacies of THA's tariffs as well as IHA's financial requirements.
Until such time of the revaluation of assets and subsequent review of THA's
financial requirements it is recognized that in the event of significant
fluctuations in net operating income or large irncreases in the net fixed
assets in operation by THA from one year to another, application of the
minimum 7%O rate of return for each year may necessitate sharp increases in
tariff and other revenue measures in one year compared to another.  In this
connectiorn, therefore, agreement was reached to the effect that in the
event that such fluctuations or increases are due to these temporary or
exceptional circumstances, IHA may adopt the principle of averaging one
year with the other as provided by the THA Authority Act.
5.13      Ihe financial projections have not taken into account the effect
of any future devaluation of the Tanzania shilling as it is not possible at
present to estimate the quantum of devaluation and the stages at which it
will be introduced. Since the IHA is expected to accumulate a cash balance
of TSh 61 million by the end of 1990, after meeting the present estimated
local costs of the project, it should be able to meet increases in project
costs because of any minor additional devaluation.



- 56 -
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TANZANIA HARBOURS AUTHORITY
Table 5.1 - REVENUE ACCOUNTS
(in million TSh)
Operating Revenues                    1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
Shipping                              14.0     12.4      15.4      17.4      17.8
Wharfage                             220.4    252.7    279.9    282.7    297.9
Operations                           178.2    160.8    206.1    253.2    263.5
Storage                               95.5      88.5    154.4    155.9    159.2
Others                                12.0      9.6       7.7      16.8      16.9
Total Operating Revenues         520.1    524.0    663.5    726.0    755.3
Operating Expenditure
Shipping                              30.7     27.9      29.2      36.2      40.9
Wharfage                              44.3      48.4     30.1      39.7      44.8
Operations                           225.3    250.9    219.8    245.8    277.7
Storage                                7.2       7.2      6.8      13.7      15.4
General                               61.3    102.9    135.2    162.5    183.6
Total Operating Expenditure       368.8    437.3    421.1    497.9    562.4
Depreciation                          50.1     50.3      66.0      68.0      68.0
Total Expenses                      418.9    487.6    487.1    565.9    630.4
Operating Surplus                    101.2      36.4    176.4    160.1    124.9
Non-Operating Revenue (Net)           13.3      13.6      0.5       0.6       0.6
Net Surplus                          114.5      50.0    176.9    160.7    125.5
Working Ratio                         71       83        63        69        74
Operating Ratio                      81        93        73        78        83
Return on Net Fixed Assets -          11        4        19        18        15



- 57 -
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TANZANIA HARBOURS AUTHORITY
Table 5.2 - Balance Sheet
(in million TSh)
Fixed Assets                              1979    1980    1981   1982    1983
Gross Fixed Assets                        1532    1533    1674   1684    1704
Less Depreciation                          627     677      734    811      879
Net Fixed Assets                        905      856      931    873      825
WIP                                        200     220      105     99      117
Investment                                  21      44       47     43       34*
Total Fixed Assets                     1126    1120    1083   1015        976
Current Assets
Stores                                      31      42       43     44       47
Sundry Debtors                             127     224      220    242      247
Cash and Bank Deposits                     441     365      375    394      453
Sub Total                            599      631     638    680       747
Total Assets                        1725    1751    1721   1695    1723
Liabilities
Loans                                      390     378      374    372      383
Equity:Treasury Grant/Capital                4      16       28      32      79
Retained Earnings                        1265    1298    1259   1224    1193
Current Liabilities                         66      59       60     67       68
Total Liabilities                     1725    1751    1721   1695    1723
Debt/Equity Ratio                    24/76   22/78   23/77  23/77   24/76
*  Pension Fund investments of EAHC to be transferred to a Public Trust in
1984.



- 5B -
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TANZANIA HARBOURS AUTHORITY
Table 5.3 - Revenue Accounts
(in million TSh
Operating Revenue         1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Shipping                  19.5    26.1      30.0    35.9    43.1       53.9    67.4
Wharfage                 325.8   435.4   510.7   600.8   721.5   901.8  1127.3
Operations               283.6   378.5   435.2   522.1   626.2   782.8   978.5
Storage                  172.1   229.8   264.3   317.0   380.2   475.3   594.1
Other                     18.3    24.5    28.2    33.8    40.5    50.6    63.2
Total Op. Revenue        819.3  1094.3  1258.4  1509.6  1811.5  2264.4  2830.5
Op. Expenditures
Shipping                  52.3    67.0    82.4   101.4   121.6   145.9   175.1
Wharfage                  57.4    73.4    90.3   111.1   133.3   159.9   191.9
Operations               355.4   454.9   559.5   688.2   825.8   991.1  1189.3
Storage                   17.5    22.4    27.5    33.9    40.7    48.8    58.6
General                  235.0   300.8   369.9   455.1   546.1   655.3   786.3
Total Op. Exp.           717.6   918.5  1129.6  1389.7  1667.5  2001.0  2401.2
Depreciation              69.0    70.0    71.0    72.0    73.0   132.0   133.0
Total Expenses           786.6   988.5  1200.6  1461.7  1740.5  2133.0  2534.2
Op. Surplus               32.7   105.8    57.8    47.9    71.0   131.4   296.3
Non-op Revenue (Net)      (1.1)  (13.2)  (244.5)  (T2.1)  (98.0) (104.0) (101.0)
Net Surplus               31.6    92.6    13.3   (24.2)  (27.0)   27.4)  195.3
Working Ratio             88       84       90       92       92       88       85
Op.Ratio                  96       90       95       97       96       94       90
Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets %,0     4       14        8        7       12       10       15



- 59 -
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TANZANIA HARBOURS AUTHORITY
Table 5.4 - CASHFLOW STATEMENT
(in million TSh)
Funds Required                         1984   1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Project                                 -     519    664       341        9        9        3
Other Investment                        20      20     20       20       20       20       20
Corporation Tax                         63      16     52       29       24       35      151
Debt Service                            16      16     16       16       16       79       79
Inc/Dec in Working
Capital                         (-)13   (-)4       11       15       10      29       20
Total                              86    567    763        421       79     172      273
Funds Available
Opening Cash                           453    468    415       167        7       10        3
Net Surplus                             32      93     13      (24)    (27)       27      195
Depreciation                            69      70     71       72       73      132      133
Short-Term Loan                         -       -      -         7       30       -       -
Project Loans                           -     351    431       206        6        6        3
Total                              554    982    930        428       89      175     334
Closing Balance                        468    415    167         7       10        3       61



- 60 -
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TANZANIA HARBOLIRS AUTHORITY
Table 5.5 - BALANCE SHEET
(in miIlicn TSh)
Fixed Assets                           1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Gross Fixed Assets                     1724   1744   1764   1784   1804   3301   3321
Less Depreciation                       948   1018   1089   1161   1234   1366   1499
Net Fixed Assets                        776    726    675    623    570   1935   1822
WIP                                      25    350    900   1405   1435         26      25
Total Fixed Assets                      801   1076   1575   2028   2005   1961   1847
Current Assets
Stores                                   53      61     69      77      88      90      92
Sundry Debtors                          222    215    220    230    245    260    279
Cash & Bank Deposits                    468    415    167        7      10       3      61
Sub Total                               743    691    456    314    343    353    432
Total Assets                           1544   1767   2031   2342   2348   2314   2279
Liabilities
Loans                                   392    727   1142   1332   1318   1245   1169
Equity:
Treasury Grant/                          95    299    568    739    778    880    979
Capital
Retained Earnings                       995    674    252    192    127         74      54
1090    973    820    931    905    954   1033
Current Liabilities                      62      67     69      79    125    115        77
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      1544   1767   2031   2342   2348   2314   2279
Debt/Equity Ratio                    26/72  43/57  58/42  59/41  59/41  57/43  53/47



- 61 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that:
(i) Government concurs in the conditions for onlending of the
credit to THA (para 3.08);
(ii)  it will execute a subsidiary Loan Agreement with THA,
acceptable to the Bank. Execution of this agreement should
be a condition of credit effectiveness (Para 3.08, 5.06);
(iii) signing of the Danish, Finnish and Norwegian cofinancing
agreements would be a condition of IDA credit effectiveness,
with the Italian and Netherlands cofinancing to become
effective by June 30, 1985 (para 3.08);
(iv)  arrears in payment of outstanding dues from Government
departments to THA will be reduced to not more than an
average of 90 days by September 30, 1985 (para 5.05);
(v) Government will annually review THA operational results and
approve adequate tariff increases as necessary (para 5.07);
and
(vi)  Government and THA will consult with the Association prior to
any capital investment by THA in excess of the equivalent of
US$2 million per annum (para 5.09).
6.02.     Agreement was reached with THA that:
(i)  Audited accounts shall be forwarded to the Association not
later than 9 months after the end of the financial year
(para 2.08);
(ii) procedures for a periodic review of the tariffs, based on
costs, shall be introduced by September 30, 1985. Based on
such review, proposals for tariff revisions shall be submitted
to Government annually in sufficient time for inclusion in
that year's budget (para 2.14);
(iii) THA will commence a comprehensive manpower training program,
including a mechanism for annual review satisfactory to the
Association by December 31, 1985 (para 3.06);
(iv) THA will undertake a study on equipment rehabilitation by July
31, 1985. The results of this study will form the basis for
the rehabilitation and of spare parts component of the project
and would be a condition of disbursement for this component
(para 3.05 (xi) and para 3.22);



- 62 -
(v) THA will bear the foreign exchange risks (pare 3.08);
(vi)   THA will appoint a project co-ordinator, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, such appointment
should be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 3.11);
(vii) on the project implementation schedule (para 3.12);
(viii) on the project monitoring format and data system (para 3.13);
(ix) THA will be responsible for preparation of a PCR (para 3.14);
(x) the THA shall not incur any debt if its net cash revenues
would be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements of any succeeding fiscal year (para 5.10); and
(xi) THA will revalue its assets periodically and that all
appropriate measures will be taken to ensure achievement of
an annual rate of return on net fixed assets of at least 7%
(para. 5.12).
6.03      On the basis of the above, the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$27 million equivalent to the
Government of Tanzania, on standard terms to be onlent to THA at an
interest rate of 11% p.a. for a period of 20 years including a grace period
of five years.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.       General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
A.1 "Study on Conversion of Berths 9/10/11 to a Container
Terminal" by Bertlin and Partners in association with the
EIU and Felixstowe port consultancy service. June 1982 (Two
volumes plus supplementary report on RIG and RMG systems).
A.2 "Grain Receiving in Tanzania" by the Harry Starr Co. October
1981.
A.3  "Technical Memorandum on the Problems Existing in Various
Sectors of the THA by ILO, Geneva, 1981.
A.4  Proposed Material Handling and Preventive Maintenance Plan
prepared for the THA by Sheridan College of Technology and
CIDA (Canada) November 1979.
A.5  "1978/1982 Revised Ports Development Programme" by THA, June
1978.
A.6 "Review of Dar es Salaam Port Development Study" by Bertlin
and Partners and the EIU, March 1979 in 3 volumes.
A.7 "Dar es Salaam Port development--Dockyard Expansion" by
Bertlin and Partners, December 1977.
A.8 "Rehabilitation of the Kurasini Oil Termainal--Final Report
on Inspection and Recommendations" by Bertlin and Partners
April 1982, 2 volumes.
A.9 Dar es Salaam Port Development Tender Documents Bertlin and
Partners, May 1984.
B.       Economic
Details of Economic Evaluation.



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
C.       Administration and Financial
C.1  The Tanzania Harbours Authority Act 1977.
C.2  Expenditure and Revenue budget of THA for 1981-82.
C.3 lariff Book of Harbour Dues and Charges of THA-three volumes.
C.4 Financial Statements of THA for fiscal year 77-78, 78-79,
79-80 and 80-81.
C.5 Detailed calculations for projected financial statements from
1982-90.
C.6 Details of traffic handled by Dar es Salaam Port during 1980
and 1981.
C.7  Dar es Salaam Port - Summary of Imported Containers, 1981.
C.8  THA - Summary strength against establishment as at March 31,
1982.



- 65 -
Annex 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Engineering Aspects: Scope of Engineering and Investigations
2.00      The first major element of the project is the creation of a
modern container facility. Various alternative methods for developing such
a facility were considered by the consultants. The main limitation of the
site at berths 9, 10 and 11 (or any other site in the port) is the shortage
of flat land adjacent to the quayside. This makes it very important to
maximize the use of space and to exclude from the terminal all superfluous
functions.  Essential functions that have to be included in a container
terminal are an effective and efficient control system and maximum
utilization of available land for the following activities:
(a) length of quayside able to support container gantry cranes;
(b) stacking yards for import/export loaded containers;
(c) stacking yards for empty containers;
(d) stuffing/stripping of LCL and port-to-port containers (these
operations require a shed);
(e) customs inspection of containers (requires a shed see (d)
above);
(f) terminal gate and control building;
(g) holding areas for trucks entering the terminal;
(h) railway transfer terminal; and
(i) maintenance workshops and equipment storage areas.
It has only been possible to exclude items (c) and (d) from the port site
in this particular case and some storage of empty containers must be
provided in the port, but limited to those just landed or awaiting export.
An existing depot UBUNGO, located outside Dar es Salaam will be
rehabilitated under the project for (c) and (d).  In addition, a Zambia
freight station Kurasini lerminal, will be constructed just outside the
port area using the transit shed relocated from the berths 10 and 11 to
store Zambian import traffic, which is slow in being cleared from the port,
in order to keep the port tranisit sheds and open storage areas clear.
2.01      The existing quays are strong enough to support the proposed
electric powered container gantry cranes with only minimal alterations to



- 66 -
Annex 2
Page 2
the beam supporting the rear rail, providing that the crane loadings are
kept within reasonable limits and the loads are spread over a large number
of wheels.  The task of laying the rails will commence at the south end of
berth 11 and progress through berth 9 so that only half a berth will be
completely out of action at any one time. Similarly, the erection of the
cranes will commence on berth 11.
2.02      The THA have decided to adopt rubber tire gantry cranes in the
container stacking area. All the horizontal movement of containers within
the terminal area will be made with tractors and trailers using the
elevating fifth wheel type which will graduially phase out the older tow bar
trailers currently in use.
2.03      The rail terminal for the transfer of containers on and off rail
wagons is ideally located at the back of berth 11. The proposed design
allows for a cantilevered rail-mounted gantry crane spanning two TRC
tracks, three TAZARA tracks (one of which allows permanent through access
to other port areas), two lines of stacked containers and two road transfer
lanes. During the project implementation phase, the TRC rail interface
will take place in the mid-port berth 8 area and the TAZARA rail access at
the back of the customs shed.
2.04       The second major civil works item in the project is the grain
handling facility. Following considerable discussion and investigation, the
THA has agreed to the use of galvanized steel silos for bulk grain storage
on a higher level site recently acquired by the IHA (disused power
station area). The use of steel, rather than concrete, silos results in a
substantial cost saving and since the grain is not expected to be stored
for long periods, no problems of deterioration are expected.  Provision for
the future installation of aeration equipment has been included.
2.05      Four portable, electrically powered, discharge suction machines
(with one spare) will discharge grain from the vessel through 25 ton
storage hoppers on to a 400 tons/hour capacity conveyor belt installed in a
receiving gallery running parallel to berth 4. Through a transfer tower
the grain is then carried on another conveyor to the silos. A single
elevator then conveys the grain to two lines of feed-in conveyors to the
intakes in the tops of the ten silos. The bins are flat-bottomed and grain
is drawn out onto a central conveyor in a tunnel under the foundations.
Road trucks can be loaded in bulk at the silos and a bagging plant is also
included. A rail loading point has been provided at a mid-port site behind
berth 5. A bagging plant for direct loading to TRC and TAZARA wagons is
included and bulk handling can be provided in future. A direct conveyor
link to the existing NMC silos is also included.



67 -
Annex 2
Page 3
2.06      The location of the road truck-loading facility will be outside
the customs fence of the port and thus the present gate congestion caused
by grain trucks will be removed. Ihe works on the lighterage quay are
straightforward and present no problems.
2.07      All the civil engineering works have been based on extensive site
investigations, testing and up-to-date surveys. Included in the project is
a further amount of sea bed soil irnvestigation needed for the future
dredging of a container vessel turning circle opposite berths 8 and 9. The
dredging work is not included in the project but will be carried out some
time in the near future when dredging plant and foreign exchange are
available.



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILIIATION PROJECT
Channel Improvements
3.01      It is widely accepted that the navigational characteristics of
the channel entrance into the port are already unsatisfactory for the
largest ships currently entering the port, and inhibit the introduction of
larger ships, particularly fully cellular container ships.
3.02      Presently the largest container shlips which can enter the port
are of about 1200 TEU capacity. If the channel were to be improved, larger
container ships could be expected to be introduced within the next few
years on Dar es Salaam's routes. In the foreseeable future these would be
of about 1500 TEU capacity. For the main trade route to Europe, the
savings in unit transport cost per container from employing these ships is
significant, amounting to about US$50 per container in 1981 prices.
3.03      Presently the services from the U.K., the most important single
trading route for Dar es Salaam, are rapidly becoming containerized, and
major North European companies are expected to join the British East Africa
Container (BEACON) consortium in the near future.
3.04      BEACON services are already on a two-week basis.  With service
expansion, either the frequency or the optimum size of vessel could
increase.   BEACON consider that the latter is more probable (and hence
that the delivery per call would become larger), reflecting the belief
that, provided there is a reasonably frequent service, customers are more
interested in a reduction in sea freight charges than increased service
frequency.
3.05      The ship size and the annual volume of containerized traffic on
the approach routes are the main determinants of benefits from channel im-
provements. On the basis of best traffic estimates the volume of container
traffic on the British/European routes, which are the only ones likely to
employ the 1500 TEU ships in the future, could increase to about 57,000 IEU
import/export movements per year by 1992. Assuming 50% of these movements
took place in 1500 TEU ships (and it should be noted that the 1150 TEU, or
even smaller, ships might still be optimal for some segments of this traf-
fic) the savings would be about US$1.4 million per annum. If the same as-
sumption were applied to all trade routes, the savings would increase to
US$2.1 million. No other types of ship are currently, or prospectively,
prevented from entering the port by channel configuration; petroleum
product tankers and bulk grain carriers serving Dar es Salaam are unlikely
to increase in size.



- 69 -
Annex 3
Page 2
3.06      A second set of benefits attributable to channel deepening
(rather than widening and straightening) is the reduction in delays while
awaiting suitable tide conditions. There are two aspects to this. First,
the high tide that occurs during darkness cannot be utilized by deep sea
ships, due principally to the absence of navigation aids. If these were
provided, delays presently experienced could theoretically be reduced by
half. Secondly, even if such aids were introduced there would still be
delays due to the necessity for larger ships to await high tide, or near
high tide, conditions. The benefits from the combination of installation
of navigation aids and deepening the channel to 9 meters below chart datum
should yield benefits amounting to about US$2.9 million per annum by 1992.
3.07      Assuming a moderate growth in the total benefits, after 1992, of
about 10%O per annum, which would be compatible with a slow growth of total
traffic ofabout 3%O per annum and an increase to about 75%' in container
penetration of general cargo by the early 21st century, the ERR on Channel
Improvements would be about 11 to 12%'.  Even if the assumptions were made
that the incremental cost of deepening to 10 meters was negligible (due to
either narrowing the channel at the 10 meters depth or through the
operational costs of dredging the additiornal meter being small) and that
this would eliminate all waiting for tides, the ERR would be unlikely to
exceed 14%.
3.08      In view of the above, and the "lumpiness" of the cost of improve-
ments (except for navigation aids), channel improvements cannot be given
the same high priority as the proposed project elements. However, channel
improvements should be supported as potentially suitable for financing as a
second phase development.  This approach will enable the above conclusions
to be reviewed in the light of actual development of container traffic, and
at the same time give reassurance to the shipping lines that the limita-
tions of the existing channel are recognized as a cause for concern and
will be addressed in a timely fashion.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
TANZANIA
PORI REHABILITATION PROJEC]
List of Bank Group Financed Projects in Iransport Sector
A.  Through FY83                                                 Amount
Direct Investments                  Fiscal Yr.            US$ million
1. Highways I & Supplementary        63/68      IDA        14.0/3.0
2. Highways II & Supplementary        69     IBRD/IDA      7.0/15.5
3. Highways III                       72        IDA           6.5
4. Highways IV                        75        IDA          10.2
5. Highways V                         79        IDA          20.5
6. Trucking Rehabilitation            78        IDA          15.0
7. Harbours Engineering I             80        IDA           2.5
8. Telecommnication I                 82        IDA          27.0
Through EAC
9. Railways I
10. Railways II
11. Railways III
12. Harbours I
13. Harbours II
14. Harbours III
15. Telecommunication I
16. Telecommunication II
17. Telecommunication III



-71-                              ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PORTS TRAINING
Background
In 1970, the then East African Harbours Corporation and the East
African Cargo Handling Service Ltd., realizing the need for training of
personnel decided to establish a port training sch6ol.  Despite the 1976
break-up of the East African Community, the Tanzania Hlarbours Authority
(THA) in 1977 went ahead with the plan to construct the training school to
be named Bandari College.  The Blue Print for Bandari College, a plan
prepared by THA for the organization, administration and operation of tne
college was initiated in 1976 and completed and presented in 1981.  This
plan formed, inter alia, the base for the construction of college buildings
which was carried out in phases and was comDleted in- 1980.  It appears
today that many of the objectives contained in the Blue Print have not been
realized mainly due to lack of coordination between the college and the
recipient depar-ments of the port and inadecuate staffing, equipment and
materials.
Manpower DeveloDmnent
Responsibility for manpower develorment in the ports rests with
the Manpower Pevelonment Department of the THA.  The department was
established rather recently and its present taskss were previcusly handled
by the Personnel Department.  It appears that the departmerit is involved
mainly ir. keeping record of staff employed at headquarters and the ports
and has not got the capacity to fully engage itself in matters of manpower
planning and development and related training needs.
Manpower SupDlv and Demand
The TEA employs about 11,200 people of whom about 9,300 have
permanent employment in the Dort of Dar es Salaam, while the remainder are
employed by TEA headquarters and other Tanzanian ports. The distribution of
staff with regard to categories and departments ir. TEA headquarters and Dar
es Salaam port is as follows:



-72                               ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
Number of Employees by Department in
Headquarters and Dar es Salaam Port
Department                   Headquart:ers            Port
Management                          3                  236
Operations                         12               6,661
Finance                            41                  270
Engineering                        39               1,387
Purchase/Supplies                  40                  87
Manpower Development               44                   98
Planning                          13                     4
Services, including legal,
training, medical, security,
logistics, etc.                   165                  578
TOTAL                             357               9,321
Skilled and
Sub-            Semi-skilled
Professionals   Professionals           Workers            Total
Department   HO  Port  Tot   HO   Port  Tot   FQ Fort   Tot    HO  Total
Operations    9   48    57    1   684   685    2  5,917  5,919-  12  6,661
Engineering   7    4    11   19   139   158   13  1,205  1,218   39  1,387
16   52    68   20   823   843   15  7,122  7,137   51  8,048
From the table it is clear that there is a disproportion between
professional and sub-professional staff on one hand and skilled and
semi-skilled workers on the other.  More workers than needed for the port
operations are permanently employed, while there is a shortage of
supervisory and managerial staff. Tne THA has not prepared any manpower
development plan, but is aware that more workers than needed are
permanently employed and that there is a severe shortage of middle
management staff, particularly trained techricians.  In addition, there is
an urgent need for upgrading of workers in the operations and engineering
departments through in-service training. In the absence of a manpower
development plan the college and the .Manpower Development Department will
identify training needs of the various port departments with the help of
technical assistance to be financed under the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
Recruitment
Professionals. Professionals to senior positions, particularly
engineers, are recruited from the market while junior positions are filled
through allocations of fresh university graduates through the Ministry of
Manpower. There is an apparent shortage of junior professionals in THA and
graduates with some working experience need to be recruited.
Sub-Professionals. There is little recruitment to the sub-
professional category as these positions are filled mainly through
promotions from the lower categories. Evidently, a number of sub-
professioinal positions are held by staff who have been trained exclusively
on-the-job and then gradually been promoted after long service in each
position.
Skilled and Semi-skilled Workers. As there is a substantial
surplus of staff in these categories, there is no need for recruitment.
However, some temporary workers tend to be included in the establishment's
permanent work force after having served a certain period of time in
'teniporary positions.
Organization and Management of the Bandari College
The college is headed bv a principal who reports directly to the
General Manager of the THA and coordinates matters recardixig training needs
with the Manpower Development Department.  The policy making body of the
college is the Board of Governors chaired by the General .Manager and having
representatives from departments of Manpower Development, Engineering
Operations and Finance of the T7A.  The pri-ncipal of Bandari Col'lege acts
as the secretary of the Board.
The College consists of four departments: Operations, Technical
(Engineering), Maritime Studies and Management and Workers Education.
Presently there are nine full-time Tanzanian instructors of whom five are
in Operations, three in Technical and one in the Management and Workers
Education Department.
Due to lack of equipment in the workshops, the scope of courses
offered during fiscal year 1982/83 has been rather limited. For Operations
Department staff, there have been courses for assistant operations officers
(1 course, 6 months duration, 19 participants), clerks (2 courses, 3 months
duration, 86 participants), port police (1 course,   1 month duration, 45
participants), fork lift operators (1 course, 2 months duratiou, 80
participants). In Engineering, during the same period, one course was
carried out for 20 assistant artisans for six months of which three months
were devoted to on-the-job training in the port workshops. One of the
objectives of this course was to qualify and promote the participants for
positions as artisans, but as yet such promotions have not been initiated.
The Maritime Studies Department is not operational.  Under the Management
and Workers-Education repartment, some introduction courses and seminars
were held for about 50 particiDants. The college has worked out an
ambitious program for FY 1983/84 hut the technical courses cannot be
implemented as planned due to lack of equipment.



ANNEX 5
~ 74              ~                Page 4 of 6
The college buildings are in good condition and appropriate for
its purpose and encompass 4 large workshops, one area for operations
training in loading and off-loading, 13 classrooms, one library, 9 offices,
one staff-room, one dining room and student hostels for 144 trainees.  The
buildings are well furnished but workshops, library and other training
facilities totally lack equipment.
Curricula and training programs are well prepared using modern
educational approaches. Most instructors have previously been in
responsible positions in the Operations and Engineering Departments of the
port. Theyhave in many cases been further trained technically and
pedagogically abroad and in-country.  However,, it appears that some have
not been involved in port operations for some time and lack up-to-date
knowledge in new technologies and operations. Consequently, there is a
need for retraining of these instructors iin the port to enable them to
competently handle the on-the-job training part of the program.  In
addition, operations and engineering staff should serve as part time
instructors in the college. This approach of upgrading the quality of
training and instructors is supported by THA.
Financing of Training
The financing of the training activities appears to be adequate
and for FY83 about T.Shs 10.7 million (US$0.90 million) was allocated from
the THA for running the college and related activities. For FY84, the
budget has been decreased to T.Shs 6.9 million (US$0.53 million) as a
result of the general economical situation in the country and also because
the college enrollment has been less than planned.
Training Component
There is undoubtedly an urgent need to upgrade port personnel in
almost all disciplines through in-service training programs. However, many
departments apparently do not comprehend their training needs and the
communication between the college and the recipient departments needs to be
improved perhaps through the Boards of Governors of the college in which
most departments are represented. Also, it would be the task of the
Director of the Manpower Development Department together with other
department heads to identify the training needs in the short and longer
term.
The main objectives of the training component would consequently
be:
(a) to identify THA training needs more explicitly;
(b) to improve THA's training capacity by upgrading Bandari College
and by expanding on-the-job training in the port; and
(c) to increase the number of THA trainees.



ANNEX 5
75                            Page 5 of 6
In order to make the Bandari College ful'ly operational, training
equipment would have to be supplied. An efficient running of the
engineering courses would require equipment for the electrical, mechanical,
marine and civil engineering workshops.  For operations training the
practical on-the-iob training will be carried out in the port itself using
existing equipment.  In addition, audio-visual aids and library books would
be required.
The THA is aware that for an efficient implementation of the
training programs, technical assistance would be necessary and has
requested that consultants should be provided. It is envisaged that three
ports training specialists need to be recruited for Bandari College, one
general ports training specialist and training coordinator,l/ one ports
operation training specialist and one maintenance engineering specialists.
The main task for the training specialists would be to assist in
identifying training needs in the port, organizing the courses in agreement
with the port departments, reviewing course contents and making suggestions
for improvements as appropriate and training and upgrading the college
instructors. The services of the specialists would be provided for two
years each. Additionally, a mobile equipment specialist would be reauired
for about 6 man-months for monitoring equipment operator training.  Towards
the end of the technical assistance period the college staff should be able.
to handle the training independently. However, in view of the current
transition period from conventional operations to introduction, of container
systems some consulting services in this type of operations might be
necessary for a longer period.
It is envisaged that some 50 man-months of overseas training for
college instructors and port operations staff would be required.  The main
objective would be to familiarize both operations staff and trainers in new
methods and procedures with regard to modernizing of port operations, in
particular, container handling systems.
1/ This expert would also assist THA's Manpower Development Department in
identifying manpower shortages and weaknesses and related training
needs.



ANNEX 5
- 76 -                            Page 6 of 6
Cost Estimate (Training Components)
July 1983 Prices
US$'000
A.  Technical Assistance
1  Pbrts Specialist and Program Coordinator
(Training Programs, Course Revision and
Implementation, On-the-job Training)   2 man-years    240
1  Ports Training Specialist (Operations) 2 man-years    240
1  Pbrts Training Specialist (M!aintenance
Engineering)                              2 man-years    240
1  Mobile Equipment Specialist             0b5 man-years       60
(Operations)
Overseas Training for operation
and instructor training                  50 man-months   150       930
B. Equipment (including furniture)
(M)  techanical workshop                                  170
(ii)  vlectrical workshop                                   50
(iii)  Automotive workshoc                                   75
(iv)  Plumbing workshop                                     30
(v)  Masonry workshop                                      12
(vi)  Carpentry workshop                                    30
(vii)  Technical Drawing                                     25      392
(viii)  Audio-visual Aids
(ix)  Library Books                                         10       15
Vehicles                                              25       25
Total               1,362



TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                   B                         C                        D                  E                   F
Activity            Analysis               Recommendations       Technical Assistance  Reporting To          Training
(and main report                                          Required
reference paragraph)                                                                                         |
1.  Bandari      College not realizing    (i) interchange of         Port specialist and  Chairman,         In addition to in
College      its full potential as    Bandari College            Program coordinator  Board of         country training
focus ofGport training.  instructors with port   24 man-months            Governors       50 man-months
Reasons: (i) although    departments on second-                                           abroad
training programs         ment basis; (ii) pro-   Mobile equipment        Principal       Training liaison
adequately prepared       vision of specialized   specialist                              officer (see con-
theoretically, lack of   assistance to coordi-   6 man-months                             tainer operations)
adequate contact and      nate programs with
interplay between         manpower development    Maintenance engi-    Principal
college (and its          and client departments  neering specialist
instructors) and the      and in fields of oper-  24 man-months
client departments,       ations and mechanical
particularly in Dar       engineering; and
port; and (ii) shortage  (iii) provision of         Operations training  Principal
of training equipment.   equipment (basic           specialist
Eq. 3.13 - 3.20           approx. US$400,000        24 man-months
plus specialized oper-
ations training equip-
ment; price uncertain)
0



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                     B                          C                         D                    E                    F
Activity             Analysis                 Recommendations        Technical Assistance  Reporting To             Training
(and main report                                              Required
reference paragraph)
2. Mechancial   Despite container             Establishment of a         1.  see Bandari
Engineering  penetration, general          three to six year          College Mainten-
cargo operations will    training program to           ance engineering
Equipment    be substantial for            bring suitable             specialist
Maintenance  several years and main-  unskilled workers up    2.  Engineer-
(general      tenance and control of   to artisan level and    Instructor to work
cargo)       general cargo equipment  possibly beyond.  Up    in the port work-
will require attention.  to 20 trainees per            shops for on-the-
Problems:  Lack of          year.  Training at the  job training
trained maintenance in   college supplemented          (24 man-months)
adequate numbers--          by workshop practice
shortage of artisans        in the port.
196 against establish-   Eq. 3.21 - 3.26, App.5
ment 258; excess of
unskilled 184 against
establishment of 127
Engineering Plann-
Problem:  Unsystematic   Set up work control           ing/Work Study          Port engineer  On the job train-
work control                office for senior          specialist 6 man-                         ing work control
Eq. 3.02 - 3.09             mechanical engineer        months to set up                         office staff
system; 3 man-
Low availability of         Introduction of use of  months to review
equipment.  Basic           proforma, example          after about one
problem; lack of            attached, to identify   year and assist in
systematic criteria         financial break-even       instituting any
for write-off               point at which             changes necessary
Eq. 1.21 - 1.22, App. 3  replacement preferable
to repair
m x
o0



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                  B                         C                        D                  E                 F
Activity           Analysis               Recommendations      Technical Assistance  Reporting To         Training
(and main report                                         Required
reference paragraph)                                                                                      |
General cargo  Ad hoc to date; usually  Operations and
equipment      done by consultants       Engineering Depts.
requirement    during project prepar-   should establish joint
forecasting    ation.  As container-    committee to period-
ization accelerates,      ically (say every
need increases for        3 months) review in
careful and frequent      detail equipment needs
monitoring of equipment  on a 1 and 2 year
needs.                    rolling program.
Eq. 2.06 - 2.07
Container      Maintenance of large      Careful work schedul-   see under work                         (a) engineer and    s
handling       expensive units will      ing will require         study specialist                      supervisor two
equipment      have to be done during   establishment of                                                months in gantry
maintenance    periods of low shipping  section devoted to                                              crane manufactur-
activity (in contrast    container plant under                                          ers works (b) then
to general cargo equip-  an assistant engineer                                          2 months before
ment where large          and based at the                                              cranes erected in
numbers enable a flow    container terminal                                             "twin" port main-
of units through repair  (close liaison with                                            tenance facilities
facilities).             container terminal                                             (c) electrician
Eq. 2.06 - 2.07          manager's office                                               and supervisor
Eq. 3.35 - 3.36           necessary).                                                   training in con-
tainer equipment
electronics at
works/twin port.
OQQ
m 
. c



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirement
A                   B                          C                       D                   E                  F
Activity            Analysis                Recommendations      Technical Assistance  Reporting To          Training
(and main report                                         Required
reference paragraph)                                                                    __|
Overall sett-  Present establishment    Senior mechanical           Maintenance engi-                      Work planning
ing and        of separate mechanical   engineer should become  neering specialist                         office staff may
control of      and electrical engi-      senior mechanical and   should assist in                         need some on-the-
maintenance    neering organizations    electrical engineer         work planning                          job training.
program         under port engineer        (senior electrical       office establish-
likely to lead to con-   engineer position is    ment.
fusion in ordering of    in any case vacant)
priorities.               and establish a work
Eq. 3.02 - 3.09           planning office to
systematically control
activities and liaise
with Operations Dept.
3. Purchasing  Poor control of spares   Improvement in              To establish policy  Director of
and supply     ordering in general.       purchasing and            and procedures (12   purchasing
control        Ops. 4.01 - 4.12           supplies function         man-months); to        and supply
critical to equipment   implement (8 man-
maintenance.             months)
(i) determine clear
purchasing and supply                                                                                                 co
policy; (ii) implement                                                                                                o
(iii) within above
framework, improve
mechanical spares
control in particular.
Stores          Excessive distance        Relocate mechanical
Location        (3 km) of Malindi          store within Dar port
stores from port has      area (under control of
led to informal stock-   Director of Purchasing
age in port and conse-   and Supply)
quent loss of control.
Formal transfer of
location to Dar port
area inhihited hv need
to maintain THA rather
than Dar port control.
Proposal before THA
Board. Also poor
control of spares
ordering in general.                               _        _       _       _     _
rQ z
Oh



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                    B                         C                        D                  E                    F
Activity            Analysis                Recommendations      Technical Assistance  Reporting To           Training
(and main report                                          Required
reference paragraph)
4. Operations   Major recent and pro-    Bonus system needs           3 man-months                           visit under C (ii)
spective developments    careful preparation to  recommendations
General       include introduction of  ensure that it is
operations   permanent gangs and        adaptable to changing   1 man-month
bonus scheme.  Both are  conditions.  There are  modification after
to be encouraged.         no hard and fast rules  C (ii)
Operator training is      and best approach will
increasingly important   be to (i) have review
to ensure minimization   undertaken by special-
of damage under adverse  ist with experience of
physical conditions.      such schemes in other
Ops. 2.01 - 2.10,         ports (ii) THA review 
2.15 - 2.18               of resulting proposals
by visiting selected
ports where introduced
Operator      Mobile equipment          Basic training at
training      operator training         Bandari should be
presently limited due    combined with prac-
to lack of space/equip- tical training at port
ment at Bandari.           in an area designated
Ops. 2.19                  as "Bandari Annex"f.
An unused shed behind
main transit sheds
would be suitable.
Crane driver training    Should be undertaken
Ops. 2.20                 on a crane designated
for this purpose.
0



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                   B                         C                         D                 E                  F
Activity            Analysis               Recommendations       Technical Assistance  Reporting To          Training
(and main report                                          Required
reference paragraph)                                              _
Winch oper-    Winch operator training  Declining use of
ator training  not possible at Bandari  winches suggests
due to lack of equip-    investment should be
ment.                     minimized.  Attempt
Ops. 2.21 - 2.22          should be made to
obtain second-hand
equipment from ship-
breakers. Suggest
review by dockyard/
civil engineering
staff.
OD
Supervisor      Essential to obtain       (i) identify 6 oper-    (a) operations
training        cross fertilization of   ational staff to work   training specialist
ideas between Bandari    with and periodically   (see under Bandari)
and port.                 interchange with, the   (b) arrange recip-
Ops. 2.23 - 2.26          2 Bandari operations    rocal program with
instructors;             similar port with
(ii) appoint training   established train-
liaison officer from    ing program who
operations department   would
to liaise with Bandari  (i) send instructor  and                (ii) receive
in equipment oper-                    trainees
ator training
>
0 z
(D 



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                   B                         C                        D                  E                  F
Activity            Analysis               Recommendations      Technical Assistance  Reporting To          Training
(and main report                                    Required
_  reference paragraph)
Container       (a) Container operators  continued technical       container terminal
operations     will be subject to some  assistance from major   operations
disruption during con-   shipping consortium       specialist
struction/renovation of  or similar desirable    24 man-months
berths 9/10/11            during this period to
Ops. 2.27 - 2.30          ensure orderly
transfer of activities
(b) once berths           A "twinning" arrange-   Container manage-    Container          Attach THA con-
complete and equipment   ment should be made       ment specialist        terminal        tainer terminal
type decided, most        with an overseas port   (18 man-months)         manager         manager (CTM) and
efficient organiza-       of similar configur-    control and                             2 or 3 key staff
tional pattern will       ation and equipment      document system                        to "twinned" port
need to be determined    type.  In parallel         specialist (6 man-   C.T.M.           for 3 months
management and systems  months) (Both from                      (preferably in
control should be        "twinned" port)                        two sequential
determined                                                      visits to minimize
disruption to
operations at Dar)
(c) after definition                               Training instructor  C.T.M.            Gantry crane oper-
of organization, staff                              from "twinned" port                   ator training
training required                                   (15 man-months)                       initially at twin
Ops. 2.31 - 2.37                                                                          port, then Dar.
Bandari instructor
should be closely
involved to enable
continuity after
end of "twinning".
0 



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                   B                        C                         D                 E                   F
Activity            Analysis               Recommendations       Technical Assistance  Reporting To          Training
(and main report                                          Required
reference paragraph)
5. Management   While there is a large   Specific issues need    18 man-months to
information  volume of information    to be addressed             (i) review existing  General           (i) identification
system       produced within THA        (i) the appropriate-    systems;                Manager THA    of counterpart THA
(and particularly Dar    ness of information        (ii) discuss con-                      unit (ii) probably
port), it does not        available; (ii) the       clusions with and                      strengthening of
always sem to be          need for additional       recommend to THA on                    unit partly by
collated in an appro-    (or reduced) infor-        changes; and                           recruitment,
priate form to provide   mation flows;              (iii) assist                           partly by in-house
a basis for managerial   (iii) the timeliness    counterpart depart-                       training, partly
decision making at        of information--sig-    ment to implement                        by attendance of
various levels, in a      nificant delays con-                                             selected personnel  O
timely fashion.  A        sistency occur which                                             at courses abroad
costing system, based    considerably dimin-                                               (est. 12 man-
upon UNCTAD recommenda-  ishes usefulness;                                                 months)
tions, is being intro-   (iv) accuracy of
duced.  This is a         information--discrep-
necessary input to MIS   ancies persist in
and continuation of       operational and engi-
this work, including      neering data emanating
refinement to enable      from different sources
tariff policy to          (v) channel of infor-
become systematically    mation; if the
cost based, is            Directorate of
desirable.                Planning is to perform
Ops. 3.01 - 3.12          this role effectively
it will need training
(particularly in
statistical tech-
niques) and possibly
strengthening either
from within Tanzania                                                                 U z
or by technical                                                                         X
assistance.                                                                   _o
0



Technical Assistance and Training
Detailed Requirements
A                   B                         C                         D                 E                 F
Activity            Analysis               Recommendations      Technical Assistance  Reporting To          Training
(and main report                                          Required
reeece paragraph)
6. Project       The Habours project is   While the supervising   36 man-months            Director of    T.A. should also
Coordination  complex due to             consultants can and                             Engineering    identify weak-
(i) diverse activites;   presumably will give                             (with access   nesses in civil
(ii) need for careful    considerable assist-                             as necessary   engineering
control of work plan to  ance to THA in ensur-                            to GM's         control, with
ensure minimum inter-    ing smooth project                               office).        particular
ruption to port           execution, responsi-                                            reference to civil
activities; and           bility rests with THA                                           engineering main-
(iii) probably diverse   and particularly                                                 tenance, and
financing sources with   Director of Engi-                                                recommended on           X
differing procedures.    neering office.  Few                                             training needs
Ops. 5.01 - 5.05          staff have first hand                                           (probably involv-
experience of a                                                 ing some second-
project of this size,                                           ment to "twin"
and accordingly tech-                                           port)
nical assistance is
necessary as project
coordinator in the
Director of Engi-
neering's office. He
should be a well
qualified engineer,
with experience of
project processing
(possibly a former
Resident engineer).
Total Project                                                                                                                     X X
0



ANNEX 6
Attachment
-86-
TANZANIA
Harbours Project
Training and Technical Assistance
Summary Table
1. Bandari College:
- Port Specialist and Program Coordinator                 24 mm
- Maintenance Engineering Specialist                      24 mm
- Operations Training Specialist                          24 mm
- Mobile Equipment Specialist                              6 imn
78 mm
2. Mechanical Engineering
- Engineer--Instructor                                    24 mm
- Engineering Planning/Work Study                          9 mm
33 mm
3. Purchasing & Supply
- Specialist (Policy and Procedures)                      12 mm
- Implement Mechanical Spares Control                      8 mm
18 mm
4. Operations
- Specialist in Bonus Schemes                              4 mm
- Container Operations                                    24 mm
- Container Berth Management                              18 mm
- Container Systems                                        6 mm
- Specialized Instructor Inputs                           15 mm
67 mm
5.  MLanagement Information Systems
- Specialist in Information                               18 mm
6. Project Coordination
- Specialist in Project Control                           36 mm
TOTAL          252 mm



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORTING SYSIEM
I. Project Progress Reports:
1.        Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate, no
later than one calendar month after the end of each quarter. Ihe first report
should cover the quarter ending December 1984.
2.        The Report should contain the following information:
a) General Informatiorn
i)    the physical progress accomplished to date of report and
during the reporting period;
ii)   actual or expected deviations from the project implementa-
tion schedule;
iii) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect
on the implementation schedule and the actual steps taken or
planned to overcome the difficulties and avoid delays;
iv)   expected changes in the completion dates of the project;
v)    key personnel changes in the staffs of the THA consultants
and contractors;
vi)   matters which may affect the project cost; and
vii) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of the project components.
b)  A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress in each project component and
including a planned and actual expenditure graph.
c)  A finarncial statement in the attached form showing details of
the expenditure incurred under the various components of the
project and the withdrawals from the credit and from
cofinanciers together with a separate statement showing:



- 88 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
i)    original cost estimates;
ii)   revised cost estimates, if any, with reasons for changes;
iii)  original estimated expenditure to date;
iv)   reasons for variations of (iii) above from actual expendi-
ture; and
v)    estimated expenditure for the remaining quarters of the
year.
d) Brief statement of the status of action in each of the covenants
of the Credit Agreement.
II. Project Completion Report
3.        The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR), to be
submitted to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date.
4.        The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce self-evaluation by
the Borrower and the Association's operating departments and to facilitate
dissemination of lessons learned through the project. In particular, the PCR
should include an assessment of the following:
a) the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and whether
the Association could have been more helpful;
b) the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal, and whether the original expec-
tations were realistic; and
c) whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could have
been done better.
5.        For those components of the project for which a rate of return was
estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a new estimate of the
return the project is now likely to yield and analyze the reasons for physical
or economic deviations. However, the new rate of return calculation should be
as simple as possible under the circumstances and should absorb only a minor
portion of the time devoted to the preparation of the PCR. An annex with the
relevant information supporting this analysis should be included.
6.        The basic documents to be referred to are:
a) Credit Application;
b) Appraisal Report;



- 89 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
c) Credit Agreement Documents, Supplementary Letters, etc.;
d) Supervision Reports;
e) Quarterly Progress Reports;
f) Project Correspondence Files; and
g) Miscellaneous Evaluation Reports.



ANNEX 7
- 90 -                                                  Attachment
TANZPNIA
PORT E MBILITATIU N PROICT
PR!JCT DEW) ITLIES - QIIRTERLY PFRME55 IFUT FOR THE WT   EI¶DNG
Etrditures to BEgin-   Eveditures Dzring The   Total Epditure to
Category                       nM  of %lwter  _rter                              Erd of t.ater             Paarks
Local  Foreicn  Totl  Local  Fomei     Total  Local  Foricp   Total
A. Advame Wbrks
T(i F799E Oil Terminal
(ii) Pipelire Diversion
(iii) Lighterage Qa Rerovtin
Sib-total
B. Main Pro.ject Civil Works
{i)   uitaLer leii ariali
UixrKp Depot
(ii) rain Farility
Slb-Total
C. Main Proiect E
C i)  Cantauer Ti       al
Luxgo EqApt
(ii)  Other Cartairer Eq tipfrt
(iii) Gereral Cargo Eqc.mt
(iv) Nawigation "d Catzictien
Eqent
(v)  Spae Parts
Sib-Total
0. Tenical Assista:  and Trnini
(1J)  ieducal Asslstan
(ii) Traindrg
Sib-Total
E. Cort ltirg Services
TOTAL ClST
C ast fir.nad unbr PPF.
Firocirq                     Till Birgninm of Ouwter                   Dirijn This Quarter                  Total to Erd of This QLarter
Il)A
THA
Total



- 91 -
TANZANIA                      CHART 1
TANZANIA HARBOURS AUTHORITY
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT - ORGANIZATION CHART
I         -
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Secretary
aand Legal
I  Public Relationsi
|      Manager
*  ~~~~~~~ ~_k                 E-DP M antia g-e-r
*                         I       I               .1
*                         ~~~~~~~~Interral Auditor
*                         I       I
|  ___L Chief Medical
Officer
I                  I
iBoard  f     GnrlI___    st  Generall
IDirector Sianager|   Manager
Director
Planning
I   _ J a[irec  or 
Operations
Director Purchasingl
and Supplies
Director Enginieering1
I      I   _ _   _ _   _ _
Director Manpower
IDevelopment and Administration
I 
Port Manager - DSM
Port Manager - Mtwara



- 92 -
CHARI 2
TANZANIA
TANZANIA HARBOURS AlJIHORIIY
PORT REHABILIIATION PROJECT - PORT ORGANIZATION CHART
Operations
Commercial
.Asst.Port Manager _ 
(Operations)            
Harbour Master
P    E
Port Personnel
Port                                                 _ __
IManager1                         
_  |                  L      Finance
Asst. Port                   ____1_1
Manager            I      jPurchasing &
|     I (Services) I                    Supplies
II     I____                    I                  I__ _
Principal Medicall
I      I t    Officer
I                   ~ ~~          ~     ~~~~I I_ 
Administration
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___  Sr.   Security   Officer
Public Relations
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __Planning
Internal Audit



- 93 -
CHiART 3
TANZANIA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEULE
1984          1985           1986         1987        1988         1989
KDJ Pehabiliation                           xxxxoooxxxxxxxx
Lighterage Tenminal                       xxxxxx
Container Terminal                                xxOxxxxcxxxxc
Grain Terminal                                                    r)ooox       (
Ubungo Terminal                            xxxxxxxxx
Technical Assista-ce                       xxxxxxxxxXX XXXXXXX            _            _      voooxxxxxxx
Training                                                _ __ _
Engineering &                                                       l            l
Supervision                                 xxxxxxxxxx: XXXXo        ------xxx-xxxxx--xxxxxxx xxx-x--
__ _ ________                                                 I           __ I_  i __
Note: Detailed Engineering Financed Fran Credit 524-TA
Final Preparation of Tender Documents, Prequalification and
Tender kction finared fron PPF.






T~~~~~~~~N~~~~~~~~,d ~~~~~~~~~rRD   16,7."R
JGAN DAATh-'           ThM-LiJ .                    (                                       N                                         s LOARDA
\A    )a rS I J                                                                                                     -  E '\X w/ v KFNYA
N          >~~~~N Y A
R VV A N D A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y    
N j ; S 6; X rMoMa4.                                                                                         N 5 9
±  N                                                    T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANZAN .A
Z~ R EW.
'\, \ > tA J f1" X~~~~Sh,/-                                       2_ .,  I'
TA    ZA N OZAM
NZC~~~~~O  ,~~~~~.  .                    N              M~~~~~~OMBAS4  DAR  ES SALAAM
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
St,ft,o    _ , I,S
X   V   /   \,   '   LAWl e 1\ X                                         , w - '                _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,rcorl odon
Jll-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Nj-b~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ECMTRER 1984






IBRD 16748R1
z   4   =  CP                                                                         TANZANIA                                                                                    ,i.       1        :        -    J             :      .,    ... /G REZAN
*                                                                                                                                        -   j   =  t   g ;  4 2  | KURASINI WAREOUSE ! ' . ' 4  K , .  ' . W... 'g - h ' 'M. . .........  
''A':' "'"'  '  '   ''-K  i r  :  .   . .2                                                   KURASII OILJETY                                                               '      .              '^':  * '0                   .            .H-  
w tr 4S,,,,, J.+;,;; h 3 CONTAINER TEEMINAL s W ItPt < / <~~~~~~~~~t. N                                                                                                 
.<~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~- RWl :q,                                                                                                                 DpIGTR WHRF.1                                       G ""                                           .. 't                                 ... mhs    xn 
thRt                                                op rANzANl                                                                     t--,16      oUtNO   ...'                                                                                          ,       '          ^
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 1 |    3 °



