OFF CIAL     CREDIT NUMBER 1536-0 TA
L DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Port Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1536-0 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     $        , 1985, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Denmark
(hereinafter called Denmark) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $7.9 million (hereinafter called the Danish Grant)
to assist in financing part of the Project;
(C) the Borrower has requested from the Republic of Finland
(hereinafter called Finland) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $6.8 million (hereinafter called the Finnish Grant)
to assist in financing part of the Project;
(D) the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Nether-
lands (hereinafter called the Netherlands) a grant in an amount
approximately equivalent to $10.3 million (hereinafter called the
Netherlands Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project;
(E) the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Norway
(hereinafter called Norway) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $2.8 million (hereinafter called the Norwegian
Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project;
(F)  the Borrower has requested from the Republic of Italy
(hereinafter called Italy) a Loan in an amount equivalent to
$3.8 million (hereinafter called the Italian Loan) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
(G) the Project will be carried out by the Tanzania
Harbours Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Tanzania Harbours Authority the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Tanzania Harbours Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and THA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and THA pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prep-
aration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 23, 1982 and
March 10, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association;
(d) "THA" means the Tanzania Harbours Authority, a statu-
tory authority established pursuant to the Tanzania Harbours
Authority Act, Act No. 12 of 1977, of the laws of the Borrower;
(e) "The Act" means the Tanzania Harbours Authority Act
No. 12 of 1977, referred to in (d) above;
(f) "T Sh" means Tanzania shillings, the currency of the
Borrower; and
(g) "Project Coordinator" means the project coordinator
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 26,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 1995, and ending
September 15, 2034, each installment to and including the in-
stallment payable on September 15, 2004, to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause THA to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable THA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿- 5 -
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to THA under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association which shall provide, inter alia, that: (i) the
proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of
eleven per cent (11%) per annum for a term of twenty years
including a grace period not exceeding five years; and (ii) THA
shall bear the risk resulting from fluctuations in the value of
currencies relent to it.
(c) The Borrowr shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreoment in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borro*ier and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) annually review
proposals for revision of tariffs submitted by THA, pursuant to
Section 4.05 (ii) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) approve such
tariff increases as shall be necessary.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, consult with tha Association and THA prior to THA's
making any capital investment, not included in the project,
involving in any financial year an aggregate amount in excess of
the equivalent of two million United States Dollars.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) THA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of   the Development   Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
THA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.


﻿-6-
(c) The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of THA to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of THA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The Italian Loan and Netherlands Grant Agreements shall
have failed to become effective by June 30, 1985 or such later
date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions' of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower and THA from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tioris of the Borrower and THA under this Agreement.
(f)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the
right of the Borrower or THA to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any grant shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
suant to the terms of the grant.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termina-
tion is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
or THA to perform any of their obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower or THA from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower or THA under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and
(f) (i) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and THA;
(b) the agreements for the Danish, Finnish and Norwegian
Grants have been signed and delivered by the parties thereto; and
(c) the Project Coordinator has been employed as provided
for under Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by THA, and is legally binding upon THA in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and THA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and THA in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date)             Q-' (  3'      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 oi the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                        Telex:
TREASURY                           41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCEDUL   1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                 SDR Equivalent)
(1) Civil works                                  15,710,000
(2) Equipment under                               1,750,000
Part G of the
Project
(3) Other equipment                                 870,000
(4) Consultants                                   1,510,000
(5) Technical assistance                          1,460,000
and training
(6) Refunding of Project                            920,000
Preparation Advance
due under Section
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                                   3,980,000
TOTAL 26,200,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) in respect of payments under Category (2) of the table
in paragraph 1 above, until the Association receives: (i) the
results of the study under Part G (i) of the Project; and (ii)
evidence satisfactory to the Association to establish the
identity and need for the goods to be financed.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The  objective  of   the  Project  is  to  provide  for  the
rehabilitation and modernization of the Port of Dar es Salaam,
the Borrower's major port, which also serves as an important
regional port for several neighboring countries. To that end the
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Creation of a modern container handling facility through the
conversion of three existing general cargo berths (9, 10 and 11),
and the acquisition and utilization of modern container handling
equipment.
Part B:
Acquistion and utilization of modern grain handling equip-
ment, and the provision of about 30,000 tons of silo storage
within the confines of the Port.
Part C:
Rehabilitation of the existing lighterage terminal.
POrt D:
Rehabilitation of the existing Kurasini petroleum products
terminal.
Part E:
(1) Acquisition and utilization of equipment for training,
workshops, and communications.
(2) Acquisition and utilization of equipment for general
cargo handling.
Part F:
Provision of training and technical assistance to THA staff.


﻿- 13 -
Part G:
(1) Carrying out a study of the rehabilitation needs of
THA's other existing port facilities.
(2) Rehabilitation of other existing facilities including
the provision of spare parts.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1989.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day ofu
198 ___
FOR SECRETARY


