Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
cA. Jql- c#
Repug N. P-3637-CITA
R EPORT AND RECOAENDIITON
OF THE
PRESIDENlT OF THE
TTAIONA  DEVOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRCTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 79.6 MILIN
TO THEE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIA
FOR A
POLITECICiTELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
August 24, 1983
I dacut ha a res_eictd disbUtium sd ma be =ud by reediub  Iy the pefeme of
their eUcial dUties. fts cin-teat Umay me .dIuwe be ldbenad widheU Wedd Blek aadwihuusIe.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Reurinbi Yuan CY)
$1.00   - Y 2.00
Y 1.00  -  $0.50
ABBREVIATIONS
CNTIC - China National Technical LIport Corporation
CRTVU - Central Radio and Television University
IILO  - International Investment and Loan Office
HOE   - Ministry of Education
PTVU  - Provincial Television University
TVU   - Television University
Unesco - United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
XERNREET OF THE PEOPLE-S REPLIC OF CHINA
IISCLL TER
January 1 - Deceuber 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
Septeuber 1 - August 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
POLYTECHNICITELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People-s Republic of China
Amount:            SDR 79.6 mLllion ($85.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:    The project would assist the Government to increase the
output and improve the quality of skilled technical manpower
by Ecipport ior two cost-effective systems of postsecondary
education, the polytechnics and the Television University
(TVU) system. The project would pursue these objectives by
providing facilities and equipment for 17 polytechnics;
for a production center, laboratories and a printing house
for the Central Radio and Television University; for 28 pro-
duction centers and 85 study centers for the provincial
TVUs; and for nine transmission stations.  The project would
also prov±de a program of fellowships, overseas study tours
and expert services to train academic, technical and admin-
istrative staff of project institutions. Tne main project
risks grow out of the newness of the polytechnics in the
Chinese education system. Under the project, polytechnic
planning and evaluation units would be set up at the central
and provincial levels to ensure smootih development of the
system. The risk that sophisticated equipment provided
under the project might not be properly installed and
operated would be reduced by the program of staff training.
Estimated Cost:                                           Local  Foreign  Total
--  $ million-
A. The-Polyteehnic-System
Polytechnic institu:tions           28.8    17.5    46.3
Technical assistance                 1.4      3.7     5.1
Subtotal Polytechnics          30.2    21.2    51.4
ThAis document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfo.-mansc 
|their officis duties. Its cDntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



- ii -
Local Foreign Total
--  $m$ion-
B. The Television University System
Central Radio & Television
University                           6.0    10.3    16.3
Provincial Television Universities  51.8    18.0    69.8
Technical assistance                   1.0     3.2      4.2
Transmission stations                  8.0     7.2    15.2
Subtotal TVU System             66.8    38.7   105.5
C. Evaluation, Planning & Preparation
of Future Projects                     2.0     6.7     8.7
Base Cost                            99.0    66.6   165.6
Physical contingencies                     4.9     3.3      8.2
Price contingencies                       17.3    15.1    32.4
Total Project Cost /a               121.2    85.0   206.2
/a Project-financed goods are exempt from
import duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
IDA                                        -      85.0    85.0
Government                               121.2     -      121.2
Total                               121.2    85.0   206.2
Estimated               IDA FY   1984   1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Disbursements:                                  $ million -
Annual          4.4    8.5     8.5    21.2    21.2    21.2
Cumulative     4.4   12.9    21.4    42.6    63.8    85.0
Rate of Return:   n.a.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 4406-CHA, dated August 24, 1983



REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENTr-
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A POLYTECRNIC/TELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Polytechnic/
Television University Project. The credit, for the amount of SDR 79.6 million
($85.0 million equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONDMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled 'China:  Socialist
Economic Development (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled 'China:
Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments' (No. 4072-CHA), was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Country data are given in
Annex I.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp oscil-
lations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average for other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health, the Chinese
population is much better off than its counterparts in other low-income
developing countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population wit'
unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient: past growth has
cone mainly from massive mobilization of resources.  For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.



- 2 -
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and
adjustment in 1979. Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) restoring and improving the quality of central
planning and policy coordination; (b) devolving more decisior-making authority
to lower level units; (c) establishing more direct links between incomes and
the performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on
market mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative
directives, to influence economic activity. Structural adjustment, aimed at
speeding improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the
relative shares of consumption and investment in national income, some
sectoral and subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade.
In 1981, problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account
deficits resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the
highest priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly
with adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households. A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies undar the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization within ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now underway. Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly In foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far reacning in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of -production responsibility system has given small
groups and households more autonomy in production and investment decisions and
linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92% of production
teams in China had implemented such d system; 78% had implemented a household
responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of farm land and major
equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted out to individual
households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond their obligations to
the state and to the collective (which accounc for about one third of produc-
tion). The number and types of rural markets have also increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occurred. Reforms in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also



-3-
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, somet price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have
already had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to
have a significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic
reform that the Government will need to address. In ruxal areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
*       labor.  In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, out
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has lso been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other adminiistrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
*       11.8%).  Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overal. economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita



- 4 -
incomes increased by 4.8Z p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas, the
real increase in per capita incomes was about 12X p.a. While more
prosperous areas and households may have benefitted the most and income
differentials at a local level may have increased, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much
of this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a cutback han proved difficult.
Decentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth
in investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a
result, most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally
financed projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and
transportation were affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4Z in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2X in
1981 and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by
sharp cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978
to 26% in 1982, when they were 9X of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent
years; the current account deficit of $2.4 billion in 1980 was converted
into a $2.0 billion surplus in 1981 and an estimated $6.4 billion surplus in
1982, an improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of
merchandise exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during
1978-82, mainly because of a rapid growth in manufactured exports. The
growth rate has been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of
imports declined in both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of
contract cancellations and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment
deliveries and to problems in obtaining high technology goods. A substantial
increase in imports is expected in 1983 and 1984 as China expands its
investment program and imports more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1981 and 1982 took
advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay
commercial bank and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was
7.8%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had
increased to cver $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports).



Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficirnt use of foreign technology and capital; and by the possibilities
for improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable econ-
omic development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are
serious shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in 'mniversities and
technical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for other
developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the
cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high,
the growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a.
during the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial
growth, and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial
sectors. Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time
when competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981 -
December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment, reform,
consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan period is
essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation will be
laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans. Modest
targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross agricul-
tural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to grow
faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the Sixth Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will be speeded up during the next three
years. Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of orga-
nization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units) encouraged,
*        and the administrative functions of communes separated from their economic
functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will replace profit remittance
as the primary means of raising government revenue, industrial administration
will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises will be closed down.
The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative and individual commerce,
particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In investment pianniuly, thc
Government is striving for more effective implementation of existing adminis-
trative regulations, but improving the structure and efficiency of investment
will be a long and difficult process, dependent very much on progress on other
aspects of reform. Measures to introduce formal economic analysis (including



- 6 -
use of sl.adow prices) into investment decisions and to make producing units
more economically and financially responsible for their decislons through
appropriate pricing and ii.centive schemes are especidlly important. Price
reform itself is reergnized as being crucial, but in view of the complexities
and magnitude of the changes required, the Government has decided that it
cannot implement comprehensive price reform until after 1985. However, appro-
priate upward or downward adjustments in the most distorted prices are being
made, and the prices of many minor commodities are being allowed to fluctuate
according to market conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. By the late 1980s, some imports of energy are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses are expected to
change quickly to moderate deficits. But the overall rate of import expan-
sion, the size of the current account deficit, and the magnitude of foreign
borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions about economic trends
and the effectiveness of government programs. For example, even a slight
acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements in effi-
ciency, especially energy efficiency, could result in large current account
deficits and debt management difficulties by the end of the 1980s. In fact, a
relatively high rate of economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the rest of the
1980s (which is the growth rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will
probably be feasible only if major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
21.       China's access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a signifi-
cant amount of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a
few other bilateral donors and will probably average only $500-600 million a
year during the 1980s. If China is to maintain a reasonable growth rate and
manageable debt service payments, it will need to obtain the necessary foreign
capital at an average interest rate below the market rate. China also has a
strong claim to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer
countries in the world.
22.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Furt er progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less
concerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of human talent,
effort and discip'line can be combined with policies that increase the
effici2ncv of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing substan-
tial increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this potential
can be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of the
Government's program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives.  Firstly, the Bank should offer Ch ia Its conslder-
able development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, workinR
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Rank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development - the shortages
of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.
Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use these and
other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs
of most of itR people, these efforts should concentrate on the poorest rural
areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, eight projects involving lending of about $870 million have been
approved. Two have been in education (University Development and Agricultural
Education and Research), two in energy (Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir
Development and Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum), two in agriculture (North China
Plain and Heilongjiang Land Reclamation), one in transport (Three Ports), and
one in industry (Industrial Credit).  Annex II containa a summary statement on
these loans and credits, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects, as of March 31, 1983.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to pro-
vide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
(Report No. 4072-CUA) analyzing developments over the past two years was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the
Bank has undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding
of the Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and
management in Shanghai.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally
to introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As preparation
for the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been developed
with Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment
Bank. The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual for the



- 8 .
Agricultural Bank of China. A program of economic research on China's
development problems, aimed at the application of advanced analytical
techniquem, has begun in collaboration with Chinese ecenomic research Insti-
tutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysi. of structural
change.
27.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investmentR. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Throe Ports Project, and aRricultural
manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project.
A health sector review is reporting on rural health care delivery systems
and health manpower development.
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first two, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training, and studies. Other operations will sup-
port hydropower generation in southwest China and the development and
management of large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. :n transpor-
tation, the Bank will finance a railway project to help transport coal from
mines in Shanxi to the east coast, and may finance further projects in
railways and in ports where additional capaclty is needed.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education through the
proposed project, a second agricultural education project and another
university development project. Support of agriculture will continue through
a project to develop rubber cultivation in Guangdong Province, as well as
others to provide rural credit in two provinces with emphasis on improved
project appraisal and Institution building, provide further assistance in
agricultural research, and assist the Government in forestry. In industry,
further loans will be made to the China Investment Bank mainly for moderniza-
tion of light industries and export projects, and there will be projects for
technical renovation atd modernization in industries surh as fertilizers and
machine tools.  In health, a project will help improve   ral health care
services and medical education. Bank assistance is also planned for a water
supply project. Through a proposed technical cooperation project being
presented together with the proposed project, the Bank will provide support
for the preparation of future investments and the strengthening of
institutions related to Bank operations.



PART III - THE POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOB
Overview
30.       China has launched a drive to modernize its economy, raise peopleCs
living s- udards and remedy the damages caused by the economic mismanagement
of the previous decade. The emphases are on education, science, agriculture,
energy and transport. The Government views education as the key to moderniza-
tion because the lack of trained manpower is a serious constraint on the
country-s economic development.  The shortage stems from the disruption of
higher education during the Cultural Revolution, when radical policies caused
the clow'ire of schools and universities. As a result, China has lost an
estimated 2 million technicians and 1 mil:ion college and university graduates
who would otherwise have been graduated during the late 1960s and early 1970s.
31.       Maapow-r requirements are being revised in light of recent Govern-
ment economic reforms.  But the most recent projections of requiremerts for
graduate level manpower indicate a special problem in science and euglieering;
where the present flow of university graduates (30,000 a year) will meet only
30Z of the estimated yearly requirements during the coming decade. Even con-
sidering the output from the nonformal system, the current supply of qualified
labor in science and engineering can satisfy no more than half the demand for
graduates. The shortage of economists, social scientists and lawyers in China
is even more acute. Only about 12% of all university students in China are
enrolled in liberal arts and social sciences. As for middle-level techni-
cians, the current output from full-time institutions of 50,000 a year only
meets about 25Z of the estimated annual requirements.
32.       Government Strategy.  To alleviate the manpower shortage and
increase access to higher education, the Government decided to: (a) expand
existing conventional universities; (b) establish a system of polytechnics,f-1
which would offer postsecondary technical education to recent middle-school
graduates; and (c) expand the Television University (TVU) system, primarily
aimed at upgrading the skills of currently employed workers.  The Government
has started to improve conventional universities with Bank Group assistance
(Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA). However, expansion of the conventional university
system is limited by constraints thae. cannot be removed immediately.  The
Government is now diversifying the production of graduates by expanding the
TVU system and establishing polytechnics to produce middle-level technicians.
These systems are faster and less costly means of expanding postsecondary
education than conventional universit'es.  They will benefit from new policies
that are being introduced - the polytechnics will be nonresidential, levy fees
and permit student choice in future employment, and the TVU will enroll an
increasing proportion of recent middle-school graduates as the need for
in-service upgrading declines. The Government plans to double enrollment in
higher education by 1990, and to triple the enrollment ratio by the end of the
/1 The Chinese term is -Short-term Vocational College." The word 'short-
term refers to the duration of study, which is two to three years
compared to four in a university.



- 10 -
century, by increasing enrollment of conventional universities, polytechnics
and the TVU to 2 million each. The project would assist the Government in
developing the polytechnic and TVU systems.
Conventional Universities
33.       There are 1.3 million students in about 700 formal higher education
institutions classified into two categories: (a) 518 four-year universities
and colleges with an enrollment of 1.1 million that award a bachelors or
higher degree; and (b) 186 two to three year -specialized colleges" with an
enrollment of 0.2 million, which award postsecondary diplomas in technical
education. Students are admitted on the basis of their scores on a uniform
national entran:e examination, and less than 5Z of the applicants gain admis-
sion. The enrollment ratio for formal higher education in China is only 2.1Z,
compared with 4-5% in other developing countries. In addition, there are
506,000 students enrolled in technical schools. These schools and the
specialized colleges are not meeting the needs for technician-level manpower
associated with rapid industrial development and modernization, because of
poor organizational design, relatively high cost of residential students,
narrowness of curriculum, outmoded equipment and shortage of qualified facul-
ty. A new type of college, the polytechnic, is emerging to meet the need.
Polytechnic System
34.       Polytechnics are designed to produce middle-level technicians, by
offering two to three years of technical education to residents of a locality
and to gear output towards satisfying local demands. They will offer access
to higher education for students who fail to secure a place at a conventional
university after taking the national entrance examination. The Government is
launching the first phase of this program with 17 polytechnics, some of which
have already begun to admit students, and plans to establish about one hundred
by 1990. Most polytechnics are being converted from existing educational
institutions. These institutions require considerable upgrading before they
can function properly. Their emergence reflects important government policy
changes towards making higher education nonresidential and creating a labor
market. In contrast to conventional university graduates who are assigned
jobs upon completion of studies, graduates of the polytechnics would not be
guaranteed jobs by the state or locality (though they would be assisted by a
local employment service). Polytechnics show promise to be more efficient
than conventional universities, both edncationally and economically, because:
(a) no residential facilities would be provided, thereby overcoming the
principal enrollment constraint of conventional colleges and universities and
eliminating a major cost factcr; (b) new sources of funding would be tapped,
including a combination of modest student fees and municipal and provincial
funding; (c) a more comprehensive, relevant and practical curriculum would be
established, thus increasing class size and promoting efficient use of facili-
ties and staff; and (dj the technicians produced will receive training that is
practical rather than theoretical, and relevant because based on local needs.
Close coordination with local enterprises, directly or indirectly through the
Provincial Planning Commissions, has helped to identify priority fields of
study.



- 1.1 -
Television University System
35.       In 1981, 1,763 nonformal institutions offered higher education to
1,350,000 workers under various forms:  factory-run institutes, spare-time
(or part-time) universities, TVU, correspondence courses and evening courses.
The Government has given much attention to the TVU system in recent years
because it can achieve economies of scale and increase enrollments quickly in
fields where the need for graduates becomes urgent. It can also afford to
bring the best teachers to students and develop sophisticated methods of
teaching through various media. Of 110,000 full-time students admitted in
1979, 69% obtained the equivalent of college degrees after three years.
More than 90% of the students are employees of factories and other government
units who have passed a TVU entrance examination.  Most full-time TVU
students are released either full cr part time from work to attend classes.
Recent secondary school graduates who take the entrance examination for
admission to conventional universities and colleges and score just below the
cut-off point can also be admitted to the TVU. In addition, an estimated 5-6
million free viewers (unregistered students) watch such programs as TV English
language.
36.       The TVU system was started in the early 1960s to train science
teachers but was closed during the Cultural Revolution. It resumed
broadcasting in 1979 with the establishment of a Central Radio and Television
University (CRTVU) and 28 provincial television universities (PTVUs). The
CRTVU is administered by the Ministry of Education in cooperation with the
Ministry of Broadcasting. The PTVUs are administered and funded by
provincial governments and local enterprises. The PTVUs operate 500 branch
schools, study centers /1 and work stations,/2 and 14,000 TV classes.
37.       The CRTVU broadcasts 33 hours of educational programs a week through
the national television network. It also distributes audio cassettes and
booklets to the TV classes and organizes examinations. The CRTVU provides a
unified curriculum of 28 courses in science and technology and 22 in social
sciences and arts. A few PTVUs offer additional courses of their own. The
television lectures are supplemented by face-to-face tutoring at work
stations, for which instructors are recruited from factories and nearby higher
education institutions. Laboratory work is done at the branch schools and
work stations, or if facilities are not available, at laboratories in other
colleges and universities, often for a fee per student.
/1 The branch school is the PTVU-s biggest field unit usually serving a
city or prefecture. Most PTVUs house a study center, comprising
laboratories, audiovisual centers and classrooms, in addition to
PTVU program production and administrative facilities.
/2 The work station is controlled by a branch school or directly by the
PTVU. It is located in a factory, mine, or local government bureau that
supports it financially. It supervises TV classes usually located in
factories.



- 12 -
Constraints to Development of the Polytechnic and TVU Systems
38.       The polytechnics system is constrained by:  (a) inadequate facili-
ties and equipment: since the polytechnics are being created by conversion of
existing institutions that offered narrow specializations, they lack facili-
ties and equipment required for a broad program; (b) low staff qualifications:
of the full-time teaching staff only 3% have had postgraduate education, and
50X have had less than five years of teaching experience.  Of the part-time
teachers hired from other colleges and industries, about 6% have had post-
graduate education. There is also a shortage of experienced administrators to
operate the polytechnics; and (c) irrelevant curriculum: existing polytechnics
offer a theoretically oriented curriculum that is an abridged version of a
curriculum in a regular university. Instructional programs need further
refinement to suit the purposes of the polytecnnics.
39.       The TVU system is constrained by:  (a) limited program production
capacity: TVUs depend on sparse facilities of their own and limited studio
facilities provided by broadcasting authorities. They are capable of pro-
ducing only simple TV and radio programs; (b) lack of transmission capability:
additional broadcasting time, a: hours suitable for students, is not available
on the national television anr; radio network. In most PTVUs, alternative
delivery means, such as cable c- videocassette machines, do not exist. As a
result of these shortages, PTVUs cannot admit students every year, creating
gaps in enrollment in some years; (c) inadequate space and equipment: PTVUs
lack laboratories and teaching space of an adequate standard. Only 20-30% of
experimental work required in the curricula can be conducted. Most PTVUs do
not have microcomputers for teaching computer literacy aid simple programming.
PTVUs also lack suitable office facilities, computers for data processing, and
modern office equipment; and (d) poorly trained staff: the qualifications of
program-making staff (academics, curriculum developers, video and audio
producers, and technical staff) are inadequate. There are also shortages of
technicians trained to operate and main-tain high technology equipment,
educational computing specialists, and qualified tutors and administrators.
Bank Group Strategy in Education
40.       In support of the Government's strategy (para. 32), the first
University Development Project (Ln. 2021/Cr. 1167-CHA.) aims to increase the
output and improve the quality of teaching and research in science and
engineering at 28 leading universities. The second education project
CCr. 1297-CHA) is designed to increase the output and Improve the quality of
teaching and research at 18 agricultural colleges and research institutes.
Implementation of both projects has been generally smooth, with good portions
of project funds being disbursed or committed in the first year.  Project
indicators also show that progress is being made toward reaching project
objectives. Although both projects would increase enrollment, their thrust is
quality improvement because quantity expansion on a large scale is not feasi-
ble under the conventional university system. The university education sector
alone cannot satisfy future skilled manpower demands. Hence the Bank Group
also supports the Government-s policy of providing technical education to a



- Is3 -
wide segment of the population through the polytec'nnic and TVU systems.
Through these t-wo systems, it is projected that the Sross enrollment ratio of
higher education in the year 2000 would be triple the current ratio of 3.1x.
Appraisal has been completed for a second project in agricultural education
and is scheduled for a second university development project. The Government
is discussir_, additional future projects in teacher training, secondary
vocational schools, and social sciences at the university level.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was prepared by the Government, with assistance from the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco). A
Staff Appraisal Report, No. 4406-CHA, dated August 24, 1983, is being distri-
buted separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington on July 11-15, 1983, with a Chinese
delegation led by Mr. Luo Qing of the Ministry of Finance.
42.       Since the Bank's initial discussions on education in China,
especially the education sector work for the introductory economic report, it
has supported the two baslc concepts underlying the proposed project: (a)
introducing some kind of basic college (which would provide short-term, post-
secondary technical education), to expand the output of middle-level techni-
cians; and (b) expanding enrollments in the TVU, to increase the output of
graduates rapidly and at reasonable cost. Our early interest in such invest-
ments has involved the Bank in policy dialogue with the MOE and in making a
contribution to the project design, based on our experience with polytechnics
and televisiorn education elsewhere in Asia. For the polytechnics, the Bank
offered advice on the type of institution China needed and stimulated a
UNDP-financed study tour for Chinese officials to see similar institutions in
Germany, the USA and the UK. The Bank later helped in defining appropriate
curriculum, equipment and space requirements. For the TVU, a system already
in place, the Bank helped Chinese officials define the types of facflities and
equipment that could best achieve an expansion in broadcast capacity and
improvement in programming. On the Bank's recommendation, a pilot study group
program for rural areas was introduced to increase access to higher education
outside urban centers. Because only a small proportion of secondary school
graduates have access to higher education at China's conventional colleges and
v       universities, the Bank has recommended ways of increasing enrollment from this
source, e.g. by promoting the policy of nonresidential students for poly-
technics and a significant increase in enrollment of secondary school
graduates (rather than continuing the emphasis on worker upgrading) at the
TVU'. It also introduced a component that would cover evaluation of this
pr&ect (in particular through tracer studies and use of project indicators),
planning the future development of the polytechnics and TVU, and preparation
of future education projects.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Scope
43.       The project would assist the Government to increase the output and
improve the quality of skilled technical manpower for its economic moderniza-
tion program by support for two cost-effective systems of postsecondary
education - the polytechnic and TVU systems. In the polytechnics, the project
would contribute to the development of three new policies in higher education
- (i) nonresidential institutions, (ii) student fees, and (iii) elimination
of the guarantee of job assignment for graduates.ll These policies are aimed
at removing obstacles that have hindered development in the conventional
system. Specific objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a)  increase the output of technicians from 17 polytechnics, a first
phase development for this type of education, and expand the
enrollment capacity of the TVU system;
(b) raise the quality, scope and relevance of instruction; and
(c) improve the standards of management in both systems.
The project institutions would work towards targets to be attained by the end
of the project in such areas as student:teacher ratios, the number of
specializations and courses, and space utilization.
44.       The project would consist of the following components:
(a) Polytechnic System: establishment or improvement of 17
polytechnics, including construction or renovation, furnishing and
equipping of facilities; provision of staff development for both
academic and administrative staff;
(b) Television University System: (i) CRTVU: construction of, and
provision of furniture and equipment for, a production center,
laboratories and a printing house; and provision of technical
assistance. (ii) PTVUs: construction or rehabilitation of, and
provision of furniture and equipment for, 9 (major) broadcast-
standard production centers, 19 (minor) nonbroadcast-standard
production centers, and 85 study centers; and provision of tech-
nical assistance; and (iii) transmission stations: construction
of, and provision of equipment for, 9 TV transmission stations;
and provision of technical assistance; and
(c)  Evaluation, planning and preparation of future projects.
11 Students with good grades will be recommended by the polytechnic to local
enterprises and units for employment.



- 15 -
The Polytechnic System
L 5.      Assistance would be provided to develop 17 polytechnics located in
urban population centers, which will produce technical graduates essential to
China's industrial development (para. 34). The project would support the
polytechnics to increase enrollment, improve the quality anc relevance of
instruction, and improve management. During this initial phase of polytechnic
development, the Government would implement new policies (para. 43) that would
reduce costs and introduce market forces to direct student demand in education
and future employment. The abtence of boarding is expected to reduce capital
and recurrent costs by 35%. Collection of student tuition (Y 50/student, or
about 7% of the 1981 average wage per worker in urban areas) would also
reduce the financial burden on local governments, and its impact on student
demand would be studied.
46.       Increasing Enrollment.  There are currently 7,000 students at the
10 existing polytechnics. Enrollment is expected to increase at least sixfold
to about 45,000 students at the 17 project institutions by the end of the
project. Increased enrollment and output would be achieved primarily by
provision of new facilities, including libraries, laboratories and classrooms
as well as some rehabilitation. The total area available for instruction at
the end of the project would be about 270,000 sq m (with new construction
accounting for 45% of the total), which conforms to average standard space
requirements per student.
47.       Raising the Quality of Instruction.  Gains in the quality of
instruction would be attained by the combination of improved facilities
(para. 46), acquisition of modern teaching equipment, curriculum development,
and a program of staff development and expert services.
48.       Equipment acquisitions would comprise basic equipment and instru-
ments needed for individual students and smaller numbers of standard and
advanced laboratory equipment, usually used by groups of students. Laboratory
equipment and computers would provide students with -hands-on' experience.
Library acquisitions would include reference books and foreign language
materials. Other equipment would include audiovisual equipment (such as video
playback systems, monitors and projectors) and teaching aids, as well as
language laboratory equipment.
m         49.        The curriculum presently used in the polytechnics is essentially an
abridged version of a university curriculum. It needs to be further developed
to suit the requirements of a technician training program, with emphasis on
practical work rather than theoretical studies. In response to local manpower
and employment needs, the project would include the development of a range of
specializations in business management, economics and engineering. Of
particular concern is the relevance of the curriculum to nearby industries;
this aspect would be closely monitored and frequent contacts between
polytechnics and local industries would be promoted.



- 16 -
5G.       The program of staff development for polytechnic teaching staff
would include local and ove-seas fellowships, study tours and seminars.  The
program for fellowships and study tours would include training in basic
sciencps, computer sciences, business managetent, commerce and engineering.
Seminars would he conducted locally by experts financed under the project for
groups of polytechnics with common fields of study. Selected polytechnic
staff would attend the seminars and would subsequently traia other staff at
their institutions. The seminars would cover areas such as curriculum
development, the use of advanced computers and science/engineering equipment,
and teaching methods that make best use of audiovisual aids.
51.       Improved management would be addressed through a staff development
program including short-term foreign and local training for administrators and
expert services in management. Particular areas that need attention at the
polytechnics, and which would be a focus of the staff development component,
are maintenance of student and financial records; scheduling of classes to
optimize use of space and equipment; and administration of computer centers,
libraries and audiovisual centers. An overall goal of management improvement
is to attain a 15:1 student-teacher ratio by the end of the project.
The Television University System
52.       Support would be provided to the TVU system at both the national and
provincial levels to expand its coverage and increase enrollment; enhance the
scope, quality and relevance of programs; and improve management.
53.       Expanded Coverage and Output.  The TVU system would increase its
coverage and enrollment by alleviating the present constraint of insufficient
broadcast time. It would do this by: (a) diversifying methods of program
delivery; (b) establishing additional transmission capacity; and (c) esta-
blishing experimental study groups in rural areas.
54.       Under the project, the CRTVU would reduce its heavy reliance on TV
broadcasts and produce courses using other media such as video and audio-
cassettes and printed materials. Programs not broadcast by the CRTVU would be
either transported by air or land, or transmitted via m crowave to provincial
stations for recording. The programs would then be broadcast locally or
delivered via land transport to the study centers and branch schools.
55.       Nine URF transmission stations would be established in the cities
where production capacity for broadcast quality programs is provided.
Transmission equipment provided would include UHF transmitters, antennae,
transmission lines, frequency and modulation monitoring equipment, microwave
links and spare parts. Operating powers would vary from 30 kW to 50 kW. The
stations would be used exclusively for broadcast of TVU programs, mainly to
enrolled students, but they would have a potential audience of 5 million.
They would each broadcast 70 hours per week, more than twice the hours
broadcast nationally (para. 37).



- 17 -
56.       With the improved transmission capacity, enrollment in the TVU
system is expected to increase sharply, from the present 280,000 students to
1.3 million in 1990 and 2 million hy the year 2000. The present emphasis on
upgrading employed workers is expected to diminish as more recent
middle-school graduates are accepted by the TVU (raising the proportion of
students inom this source from the present 6% to about 30%), thus increasing
the output of qualified new workers. Introduction of a mixed delivery system
would allow the CRTVU to diversify its course offerings without requiring an
increase in the limited broadcast time available. Moreover, the present gaps
in enrollment in some years (para. 39) would be eliminated.
57.       The introduction of new delivery systems (e.g., cassettes) would
enable the TVU system to extend its reach beyond urban centers.  As a first
step, a pilot program of study groups would be set up in rural areas covered
by the PTVUs. The project would provide them with classrooms, video and
audio-cassettes and playback equipment, books and materials, and laboratory
equipment.
58.       Raising the Quality of Instruction.  Improvements in the quality of
instruction would be achieved by raising the TVU system's capacity to produce
programs and teaching materials, as well as by improving the technical and
pedagogical quality of its programs; improvements in the teaching environment
at the 85 study centers; and, more generally, by a program of technical
assistance.
59.       The project would assist the CRTVU in constructing and equipping a
production center, comprising three studios, that could be used to produce
programs of a high technical quality and pedagogical content. The center
would be provided with studio equipment, as well as educational resource
materials, and could thus employ a wide range of techniques in program pro-
duction. These facilities and new techniques would allow the CRTVU to
increase its number of programs produced from 300 at present to 700, and its
number of courses from 50 at present to 170 by 1990. New courses would
include civil and architectural engineering, light industry, chemical
industry, management and accounting, political science and law. The CRTVU
would also establish a laboratory center in Beijing, consisting of 12 labora-
tories, which would be used: (a) to train key provincial trainers in the use
of laboratory equipment; (b) to set up demonstration experiments for video
recording; and (c) to upgrade the level of CRTVU and PTVU academic staff
*          involved in the production of TVU courses.  The CRTVU-s programs would be
supplemented by written materials produced in an in-house printing facility to
eliminate delays that now occur in printing.
60.       Production centers at the PTVUs (9 major and 19 minor) would be used
to supplement the program output of the CRTVU in areas where local centers
would have a comparative advantage (e.g., in producing programs that meet the
specialized needs of local industry) or could produce programs of acceptable
quality at a lower cost. Exchange of programs between provinces would be
encouraged. The CRTVU would monitor programs needed by various PTVUs and



- 18 -
would assume responsibility for producing national programs when these are
required by several PTVUs. New program production capacity at the provincial
level would be able to produce at least 3,250 programs - 1,350 (equivalent to
27 cc-urses) at the nine major production centers, and 1,900 programs (38
courses) at the minor production centers.
61.       The project would improve the physical facilities of 85 study
centers (1-6 per province), each comprising laboratories, audiovisual centers
and classrooms. The total area available for instruction at these centers at
the end of the project would be about 300,000 sq m, with new construction
accounting for 73% of the total. Laboratories would be provided with equip-
ment for teaching mechanics, electronics, civil and architectural engineering,
light and chemical industry, and language courses. Other equipment would
include audio and video cassette equipment for replaying nonbroadcast
programs, micro computers for teaching computer "literacy" and basic
programming, and audiovisual teaching aids. This equipment should allow the
PTVUs to improve the quality and increase the percentage of experiments
performed out of the total required by the curriculum from 20-30% at present
to over 80% by 1990. Also, a greater proportion of students in tect-nical
fields would be able to perform more experiments.
62.       A technical assistance program, including local training, foreign
fellowships and study tours, and specialist services, would strengthen the
professional qualifications of CRTVU-s technical and academic staff in such
areas as program design, operation and maintenance of production equipment,
management of learning resources, computers, and measurement, evaluation and
research design. Similarly, at the provincial level, staff would be trained
in program making, course design, and production techniques and procedures. A
local training program would be developed to assist staff in maintaining
audiovisual equipment (especially video cassette recorders) at the study
centers. Staff of the nine transmission stations would be trained to operate
and maittain the stations; since UHF transmission employs highly advanced
technology that is relatively new to China, training would most likely be
conducted at the manufacturer's facilities.
63.       Improved Management.  The project woul3 improve management of the
TVU system through provision of computers and technical assistance. The CRTVU
would acquire a computer to establish files covering the whole TVU system,
with data on student enrollment and characteristics, program and course
production, examination results, and evaluation studies.  Each PTVU would
acquire a computer to establish similar records. Computers would also improve
techniques and procedures for scheduling staff time and facilities, including
libraries, and management of education resources. Senior Tvu administrativ7e
staff (deans, directors, and registrars) would receive training in modern
management practices through seminars organized by the CRTVU and conducted by
experts.



- 19 -
Evaluation, Planning, and Preparation of Future Projects
64.       Evaluation.  Project evaluation would involve measuring, during and
at the end of the project, and for some years thereafter, progress (a) in
implementation of new higher education policies; and (b) towards meeting
project objectives using agreed project indicators. Each ye,;, project insti-
tutions would collect required basic data and conduct tracer surveys of
graduates to monitor the match between employment and fields of study, which
will allow MOE to determine the success of the new government policy on
student choice of employment. Local specialists would be employed for much of
this work, which requires a knowledge of Chinese and/or the locality. Under
the project, a unit for polytechnics has been established within the MOE to
assist in consolidating and analyzing collected data; similarly, a research
and evaluation unit for the TVU system has been established within the CRTVU.
The project would provide funds to be used for local and foreign specialists
(estimated at 590 and 150 man-months, respectively), local and foreign fellow-
ships (estimated at 1,770 and 580 man-months, respectively), and required
equipment. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (a) tracer surveys as described above would be conducted annually for
polytechnics and periodically on a sampling basis for TVUs, and project
progress monitored annually until 1990; and (b) the planning and evaluation
unit for polytechnics within MOE, and the research and evaluation unit within
the CRTVU would be maintained until 1990 (Section 4.03 (b) and (c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). An understanding was reached on the
project indicators and targets to be used in evaluation.
65.       Planning.  Because expansion of the polytechnic system is expected
to be rapid (para. 34), extensive planning is required at the central and
provincial levels. The polytechnic unit within MOE would be responsible for
overall development of the system. Smaller planning units have been or are
expected to be established at the provincial level and would conduct studies
in such areas as school location planning, and curriculum and staff develop-
ment. Similarly, the TVU research and evaluation unit would offer advisory
services to the PTVUs and would carry out studies aimed at improving teaching
methodology and providing the Government with statistical data on costs and
effectiveness. Moreover, the unit would be responsible for planning addi-
tional study centers and delivery capability to expand TVU coverage throughout
the provinces by 1990. The project would provide funds to be used for local
and foreign specialists (estimated at 270 and 140 man-months, respectively),
'Local and foreign fellowships (estimated at 2,270 and 530 man-months,
respectively), and required equipment.
66.       Preparation of Future Projects.  China plans to tackle its shortage
of skilled manpower by doubling its enrollment in higher-level education by
1990. Two important systems it will use to achieve such a rapid expansion
are the polytechnics and the TV University. It also plans further quality
improvements of education at the primary, secondary and higher levels, and
some quantitative expansion at its conventional colleges and universities.



- 20 -
To prepare for these as well as other investments in the education sector, the
project would provide funds for local and foreign specialist services
(estimated at 100 and 130 man-months, respectively), local and foreign
fellowships/study tours (estimated at 200 and 100 man-months, respectively),
and related equipment.
Project Management and Implementation
67.       Responsibility for project implementation would rest with MOE.  The
Vice Minister for Planning and Development would assume overall responsibility
for directing the project. He would be aided in this task by the Inter-
national Investment and Loan Office (IILO) established within MOE in 1982.
This office would coordinate with and be supported by relevant sections of
MOE. Additional staff would be appointed to IILO, one group to be responsible
for polytechnics, the other for the TVU system. IILO would also coordinate
project implementation with CRTVU administration and Provincial and Municipal
Bureaus of Higher Education; it would also draw on advisory services from
outside MOE, particularly from the China National Technical Import Corporation
(CNTIC) of the Ministry of Fcreign Economic Relations and Trade for procure-
ment (para. 71). At the institutional level, development plans have been
prepared by senior management committees, which report to the Provincial or
Municipal Bureaus of Higher Education. These local bureaus would report to
IILO for all matters pertaining to project implementation. Staffing of IILO
and relevant sections within MOE would be adequate for implementing the
project. A Polytechnic Commission, including representatives from the 17
institutions, would be formed to assist in project implementation. The
Commission would be advised on equipment procurement by a team selected from
members of the Review Commission of the University Development Project (Ln.
2021/Cr. 1167-CRA). During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that a Polytechnic Commission would be established and maintained
until the closing date (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Fellowship candidates nominated by project institutions would be
submitted to local Bureaus of Higher Education and to MOE for approval.
Technical assistance for installation and maintenance of major pieces of
equipment would be included in equipment procurement contracts. Terms of
reference for other specialists would be submitted for Association revie-w
before contracts are signed.  Specialists would be selected in accordance wi.h.
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (August
1981) (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Status of Project Preparation
68.       The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  Land has been
acquired and designs prepared for all project institutions; civil works ror
some institutions have already begun. A mission of procurement specialists,
financed out of Ln. 2021/ Cr.  1167-CHA, has assisted tha Gove:;menL 'n
refining building designs and equipment lists.  Bid documneuL.-      .
equipment in the first phase of procurement nave been substantially completed.



- 21 -
Project Cost and Financing
69.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at
RMB 412.5 million or $206.2 million equivalent including contingencies.
Project costs include: (a) construction and renovation of physical facili-
ties; (b; locally procured and imported equipment and furniture; and (c) tech-
nical assistance. Association financing under the proposed credit would
amount to $85.0 million (41% of total project costs) and cover all foreign
exchange costs. The remaining $121.2 million would be financed by the
Government. Cost estimates for civil works, goods, and services are based on
May 1983 prices. Construction costs were estimated on the basis of recently
started construction, analysis of unit prices of comparable buildings, and
existing sketch plans. Furniture and equipment costs were hased on master
lists prepared by project institutions, and reviewed by Bureaus of Higher
Education, MOE, consultants, and Association staff. Technical assistance
costs for foreign experts (including salaries, allowances, housing costs, and
airfares) were estimated at $7,500 per man-month, and costs for overseas
fellowship training were estimated at $1,250 per man-month. The contingency
allowance of $40.6 million includes: (a) physical contingencies ($S.2 million)
estimated at 5% of base costs; and (b) price contingencies ($32.4 million),
allowing for an estimated local and foreign price escalation of 5.5% per
annum for the balance of 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% in 1986-88.
Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes. Recurrent
costs generated by the project are estimated at about $16 million equivalent
per annum at May 1983 prices, and would be insignificant compared to the
budgets of MOE and the provincial and municipal bureaus of education.
Procurement
70.       Civil Works.  Under this project, provincial and municipal govern-
ments would finance and supervise all civil works and follow local procedures
for selection of construction bureaus, award of contracts, and settlement of
bills. These procedures are being followed in the University Development and
Agricultural Education and Research Projects and are satisfactory. Buildings
are suitably designed for education needs and the Association would supervise
construction.
71.       Equipment.  Equipment would be procured in accordance with
acceptable lists prepared by project institutions, reviewed by the Polytechnic
Commission (para. 67), consolidated and approved by MOE, and approved by the
Association. Equipment would be procured in two phases over about two years.
Bid documents and specifications for international competitive bidding (ICB)
would be prepared by the Commission, the advisory team and IILO (para. 67) of
the MOE. Invitations to bid are expected to be issued in the first semester
of FY84. MOE would have overall responsibility for procurement and admini-
stration, with assistance from CNTIC in handling bid invitation, bid
evaluation, and contract award.



- 22 -
72.       Equipment is estimated to cost $124.0 million.  It has been divided
into two lists. One list, 45% of the total, contains basic and standard
laboratory equipment, laboratory materials and books in Chinese. Theme are
available from local suppliers and quality in reasonable. Such items will be
financed by the Government and procured in China in accordance with local
procedures, which are satisfactory. These procedures are economic and
efficient because (a) Chinese prices of these items are generally lower than
International prices, and (b) loeal procurement of such items takes less time.
The second list, 55% of the total, contains equipment unlikely to be
manufactured locally. The bulk of this equipment would be procured through
ICB and financed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent
possible. Local manufacturers would be extended a 15% preference margin, or
the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids.
However, contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000 Individually and not
exceeding an aggregate amount of $6.0 million may be procured through: (a)
evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers; or (b) direct purchase for proprietary items or where justified by
the need for standardization. Books in foreign languages and audiovisual
instructional materials would be procured directly from publishers/producers
or distributors. Prior Association review of contract awards would exclude
small contracts ($200,000 or less) estimated to cover less than 25% of the
value of all contracts. Post review of such contracts would be performed by
review missions on a sample basis.
Disbursement
73.       The proposed credit of $85.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
on the basis of: (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures of imported equipment
or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; (b) 75% of the
invoiced cost of imported equipment procured locally; (c) 100% of the expend-
itures for specialist services and study tours; (d) 100% of expertatures for
overseas fellowships; and (e) 100% of foreign expenditures for books and
instructional materials.
74.       Under the project, a special account would be set up for disburse-
ments for the overseas fellowship program (Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule 5 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The special account would allow
smooth implementation of the program, involving over 700 fellows, by facili-
tating advance payments to students. It would be set up r '.' maintained in US
dollars in the Bank of China in New York.  The initial de.osit of the US
dollar equivalent of SDR 800,000 represents the highest estimated expenditure
for any three months of the program. Applications for replenishment would be
submitted quarterly. Opening of the special account would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
75.       The completion date would be December 31, 1988 and the closing date
for disbursements December 31, 1989. The proposed project would be imple-
mented over a five-year period at a faster pace than the regional average for
education projects. This is feasible because some project items are at an
advanced stage of preparation.



- 23 -
76.       Accounts and Audit. Diring negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that: project accounts would be maintained according to
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Association; annual
audits of project expenditures would be carried out by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; and it would provide the Association with
audited financial statements within six months after the clot  of each Chinese
fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
77.       Benefits.  There would be five principal benefits from the proposed
project: (a) policy changes implemented for the polytechnics would have
long-term effects on the higher educatio- and employment systems in China; (b)
the output of skilled technicians would increase; (c) the quatity of graduates
would improve; (d) the management of both the polytechnics and the TVU system
would improve; and (e) access to higher education would be expanded. The
shortage of graduates and skilled technicians constitutes a severe constraint
on China's economic development. As a result of the proposed project, the
Government expects polytechnic enrollment to increase to about 45,000
students. TVU enrollment would more than triple to 1.3 million in 1990, with
a corresponding increase in output (425,000 graduates). By the end of the
project, 30% of enrollment in the TVU would comprise recent middle-school
graduates, who would become net additions to the skilled labor force. -Hands
on experience in using modern equipment and computers would provide better
qualified graduates.
78.       Risks.  A major uncertainty for this project concerns the newness of
the polytechnic institutions and policy changes for the Chinese education
system. Particular attention would therefore be paid to ensuring that
adequate evaluation and planning for the future development and extension of
the polytechnic system is carried out. These functions would be assumed by
polytechnic units established or expected tc be established at the national
and provincial levels and strengthened through technical assistance provided
under the project. Moreover, targets (project indicators) have been
established and would be used to identify potential problem areas. A second
-isk concerns the installation and the operation and maintenance of project
equipment. Some of the equipment, especially for the TVU transmission
stations, is very sophisticated. An extensive program of technical assistance
has therefore bees developed to train staff who would use and maintain the new
equipment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People-s Republic
of China and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
80.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are (a) approval by China's
State Council of the Development Credit Agreement and (b) opening of the
special account (para. 74).
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDAIION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 24, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANE  I
- 25                                                           Page 1 of 6
Cil., IEOPLE-S REP. or - SOCIAL DICATS  TA SIE
011, P_OPLEmr  RE. 0rF              REFEREL COCPS (EXGNT D           )
loS=                     CNST REC    ESTIMATE) /b
1964/      197k  E      AASIA * PACMC                       ASIA & PACIFIC
aRiac~m    . 's0
TOtaL                             9561.0     956.0       9561.0
ACRILTURDL                        3176.3     321370      31t2.9
P   CAlra C(O1SS                      &O.Oc       90.0      300.0              276.7                   1028.6
CKrLOLWS OP 0F COAL E)IQZIALET)   340-a       427.0       618o0             398.6                    792.8
POP 0ATR    AND I.L STUTSTJCS
POPULATIOII.MD-YERR (THOCSLIDS) 683400.0   831000.0   9913000 0.
URBAN POPuLATION  t   r OF Tom)    18.4ld        --       20.6               21.5                     32_9
TOPMLATION MRQECrIOES
POPMLATrOs Mi YEAR 2000 .kILL)                         x297.7
STArTIOXU POPLATI  r.L)                                1434.6
TEAR SrATIO!   POP. r.EACFE                            2060
PER SC. !-                       71.5        87.7      1m2.5              161.7                    260.7
PER SQ. RE. AzHx. LUSD          21532       261.1       307.8             363.1                   1696.5
PoaL.rrIOwC AM STRuCTE CZ)
O-L4 115                        38S9        37.7        32.2              36_6                     39.4
15-6  YRS                        56.3        57.2        62.4              59.2                     57.2
65 ASD A11VE                       .8         5.1         5._               4.2                      3.3
POPtLAI  CGWR RAXE (Z)
TOTAL                             1.7         2_1         1.5               1.9                      2.3
URAS                               -'          --         '-                6.0                      3-9
CRDE BIRTH RATE (PER 780(5)        38.914      34.1       20.9               29.3                     31.3
CRuDE DEATH RATE CM  DMOS)         23.77        9.8        7.8               10.9                      9.6
5105S RPRGUWCrlTO  RAtE             2.87T       2.6        1.4                2.0                      2.0
FAMLY PLAMTRU
ACCEPRoRS. AWAL 0TH15)              ..
USR  C OF PARIED u1                 -          --       746.1f             48.1                     46.6
rNDEF OF FDOD 3R0D  PER CATM
ci969s1n-iw)                         ..       100.0      117.0             Ill.                      12.232
PEP CATA SEtLY OF
Ca.ORTZS tZ OF RCIRDErTS)       78./e    _88.7         107.0              98.1                    114.2
PROTEUS (RA1SP PER DAT)           M9O4       53.0       65.0               56.7                     S7.9
OF allCI ASIIU  AND PULSE         __        12.7        15.0              13.9                     14.1
CHLD (AGES 1-4) DEAT RATE"         26.1/.      10.7        7.2               12.2                      7.6
LIFE ExWECr. AT BIRTH Mr ARS)      40-54       57.9        67J2              59.6                     60.2
INFASr NOR. RATE (PER MOO)        165.0i       90.0       n70                96.6                     68.1
ACCESS T0 SAFE VATER (CPo?)
TOTAL                              _.          __          __              32.9                     37.1
ORASl                              __          __         __               70.8                     54.8
RUMAL                              . __                    .               22.2                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXTA  DiSPOSEL
( OF POPILALTIO%)
r                TOTAL                                                                      18.1                     41.6
URBAN                              __          ____72.7                                             67.5
RURAL                               .          --          -                4-7                     33.6
POPCLAXos PER PnrC1*             a330.0/h   3800/h   1920_011              35G6.0                   77n.9
POP. PER NURSIC PERSON          6020.0      2840.0     1890.0             *797.9                   2462.6
POP. PE ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1060.0      760.0       690.0            1100.6                   1067.2
URBAS9                          210.0          -       160.0              298.4                    651.1
RURAL                         1O140.0          __      1010.0            5961.6                   2S59.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          --          ..         --                 --                     27.0
AVAERAE SIZE OF HOSEHgI.D
TOTAL                              --          --         5.2
URRAN                              ..          ..        4.2
RUtAL                              -           --         5-5
AVERASGE N.0 OF PERSONS/RO(E
TOTAL                              -                       --
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              .. .-
ACCESS TO EILECT. (Z OF DELLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..          .. .  ,,
UR.A                               ..          .....
g RA                               ..          .. ..  _.



- 26 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
014. FEOPLE S REP. OF - SOCUL IM ATOS UTA S
011. EQ?LF'S REP. 01        F                 ampS CIURIEUD AWERAURS) is
MoST                    t(lMST SbUS ESTVAK  /b
1980£  1970~       ~              LOWP I               I DLE 130011
196of-1,   1970a     =AZI-Jb        I t  &6 PACIFlC         ASIA 5 PACIIC
ADJUSTM EUROULLNEWr tATIOS
PRMLW:  TOTJL                  109.0       110.0       117.0              96.1                    101.2
M.LE                     ..         ..       126.0             107.8                     106.0
ThILE                    ..         ..       106.0              82.9                     97.5
SECORaRT: TOTAL                  21.0        23.0       34.0               30.2                     4.9
SALE                     ,,         ,,        40.0              37.3                     50.0
FVUALE                   ..         ..        27.0              22.2                     ".A6
WOCATTO.VL (t OF S     'Ah)          ..          ..        2.2                2.3                     18.5
PUJPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRWIU                              ..          ..       26.0               34.4                     32.7
SElSDAR                            ..          ..       17.0               18.4                     23.4
DUlLT LIIERACI RAM C:Z             43.0/d        ..        69.0/1            53.5                     72.9
PASSER C          SAD POP            *-          *-         *-                1.6                      9.7
RIADO  1CE1 R S/THOUSA10 POP         *_          *_       S50.6              96.8                    113.7
IT RECEzUEPS/TROSA! PoD             1-.8                                      9.9                     50.1
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY tsnEAL
I-TEEST-) CIRCMATI
PE  T A   POF1LATION                ..          ..          ..              16.4                     56.0
ClIIA AUW]L ATTAJCAt                 .-          ..         .-                3.6                      3.4
LAM  frm   -- 
L  LAND& FORCE C( 5C)          319589.0  377495.0   463348.0
FMEALE C?EIUDT)                  38.3        38.0       37.2               33.3                     33.6
ACRICULTlRE CP1ERCE51              --           -        6e.9              69.0                     50.9
fUOSTRYf CPRCEST)                  ..          ..       18.7               15.8                     19.2
PARTICZFATION RATE (PERCE1)
TO-J.L                             6.8/4     45.0        46.7              4Z.5                     38.6
RULE                             ss.7j-    54.5          57.0              54.4                     50.7
FEyALE                           37.0a       35.0       35.9               29.8                     26.6
rCOSIIC GEPECDEICY 3rATIO           0.9L        1.0        0.8                1.0                      1_1
3C DISEUTU
PUXEST OF PRIVATE 1350E
R-CErVED B
RIGIES  S OF HOUEMS                .,          ,,        l2.5/k            16.5                     22.2
IREST 20: oC ROFDUSEDLDS            -          .        39.37T             43.5                     48-0
L0O  2G  OF 115EIIS                 ..         ..         6.87              6.9                      6.4
LOWREST 41 OF OEUSODS              ..          ..        1u.47i            17.5                     15.5
F5017 TAR= mOaNS
ESTIMATED AIS.UTE PMTERTY INCOr
LEEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..             133.9                    194.5
RMURL                              ..          ..         ..              111.6                    155.0
ESTIMATED RELATMIE POVEltY INoE
LEVL CSSS PER CAPITA)
URBIA'                             ..          ..          ..               ..                     178.0
RURAL                                                                                              l  .8
ESTfLAD  POP. NPO5 AZSQXUTE
POVERTY ISCOl LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                                                      43.8                     24.4
RURAL                              ..          ..                          3 51.7                   41.1
!ROT AVAALAM.E
ROr APLICANILE
110 1 E 5
/a The group averages for eac lindicator are population.wigbted aritl.tic mas. Coveqrae of eomtrieS amog the
indicators depends on Sallability of data mnd Is rot  miofor.
lb Unless otherwise nmoted. -Data for 1960- refer to ary year between 1959 a*m 1961; Data for 1970- beimen 1969 and
1971; and data for -Pat Recent Eetl_te bcwcen 1979 and 1991.
e Interpolated 1957-62 data; Id 1964: 1o 1955-65 aeerae; /f Percentage of uomn of reproductiv& age; A  1955-6
verge; /lb Senior doctor of weaters odicine; It 1982; .     1957; /k Distribution of people ranked by households per
capita Sncome.
* All data exclude Tratwan. chin.
- All population ad wta statistics are Bank estimstes wbicli differ from CItinese offictal statistet.
Formal education only; nou-forl enrollmnt Is substantial.
Defnlitiot and coverage differ from those of Chtrea official  tatiatica.



- 27 -                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
8scteA.igCh cbsja.    iree fte  aega gantratyji?                t   a   a     ita LI*rlta i.It &scid  La he PPtsd chatc.a V esyP -r halco.tasl
earshlb  %-t  @1 the lack c scedselca d lotI. sad                   POc  sea by diffasu       srIlt- Is catteacleg cbs das  lb. stso  .coaec  c!. 
-fb3i-cc.laci  eeec l-eep datathe-costs. at.  petstle eaiabcat atlSStlt nea. ic  cLa". eWtate   at l%ee cely eta .coaty                              - te  s-c
maned - eccca  snrt ge at-    lalactc   t..Ite   oaa.  eth  aLy .a-   Mmi I                 - espcta -"b. naia .1     ~ - ldle   at. itf.. ea   th  estr   s
tWACtacse  nho                                                                       p.s.tccce  s.WShakleW- 0t.lall..  oldad b  sat ci tsctctte
acs.acA-ic                                                                         oolrs   ,thn    yog. -PepotI tLInies by, ..              r ci gt.ctiia
far  cr7.  escaas .abs  a  lichesL -aic  at i-  II  tsIls 9190.                           -aeftlngCsc'tlta,tacL
Nm -w I;z                                                                                                a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rs  a   ost  ltttb  ee. c stla -her t' taatc  haCtws
caUA(p?   IlSt- C   a cait  -ciaa -  cn-   eitnie                                     el.I -c coli   sa   ree   sacta    peacethets 
ceatcdb  aseeaae   et  -tc                skLt.140U   eIi                           Pahe-tlite   at.-   U        c-pittic  ,-       .  rcbla -.st.paesccly aimft.
cm  o. zoro, as tIct ace..  -FLt best -bc 7steea. IctaL.                                                                     "--Leed "Psaltftg  macit-l? c.sss
cilm"._ by ;~~~~~ l-L1_ ~~~w  - w-la l-cc'sace st  ccc9s.   isttlSa.piilc. hni1cc* lath heath sa
MaOt Io-G.e -a        cei     cm!sura   eecanc    r.!atl   caseI                                          c -cPeassesaci sttabte   by*P-yIct. Mfhep hr *aCs.
PSnC1MAMW.  S7X nc",                                                                  Sp-ceL1toe hec,pltal   a  cUa  acy -dt .eeI.
rac! rpelcle. ss-!..(crccede)- -at sl  ta;tMO. M47. -d litaslaca1    acts     -5Tsts a-hat atcset. ..    aht.
-re.rrlatea  Ceccr.1 taco!) - - Usc!. atd-    saserlasna
san cacrOaa tint. :470, asafissi eta..                    Ut                            e-tan ciUiaal   ts   scbashtt-rad-a.   sre
tc'clacse  re*cat.5    .-                            I     1h-I,I -v-amat PI.~tis     aa  ci istat.csle   -s see   ..i..  ma
r.picca  ct na     -Cns  eecespcace                        S P F      hI..     .t   - ti  sci  acsas a  etra ledaa st e -L               y -  hecale 
tact..  rs3anct-dgtsr t-at aeoatr  cat cito    !   w                               ae, -        at7 ge.  - tarD- a.- - cald. cas,a   st  ntg            a
VAspIc.  Pe.. lnl  sa Ueas. i a1 ataemwyV- acbtii  -  23.) I-.lCla2ts ceqetlonty   be .1LIMct cad     ees-.ceeazrL -trctccs  e
Stoaoioitie  - I  a e .ctlaec  papleio  chat  6 -gtity                                                tt
srcrtreresle  asta.   hI Icaelest et eesttecttcrta..Maca    rlleec  cc.t~_.    Wf t      _ -1   L   df
.ceb ganstlIe .t  -o  cglee   itself eascLy.  2a ecstcs-r                                  citata  al sc 51 che P-tay lest -  sattecega  at cacgtlc
aalteoLe -   acceete  -  the  -L.t of Lbr P-oje-.  chatata                          yttsat  ahee-ea  pPPsleiese   -azc y lacat.6  thliesa .1" tell
lciatcbs  satts  L. tin 1550 mms.aste.  b.          at drn. S                        n    b.c stjs.ca  1st dtie   e  leach  ad pra-cy edarecac  if
fetchLIcyraes r.racaea  tets ciecb elet..  ad.cstae acaslnc  sy aat.d Itt winc
T-a  ..-Ieo5~tec   araa  -m   eraccocs.t                                                     c        aectia et  ha:-s a- ab     b .1 1 cit achd   V-
P,plca   lnesl  eaabtI55 Oah-l- cart. ca.a   ic   - t-pnte  -  ebsa; aecst7
Pt   . i.   0erar.e   lad - CcPredCeaeo=fc  gr-elars  1t                          anttt  sateat
cit!               =     da-Il5i tan.                  -d                pacacelp -ss...ieda trs-css  at ,eaceby stel       f - oetia.t aea   ace.
_(--Iscla-:_ 00, ti.t,.a ruM   .ic.Fise  1t-teahe  -ai      tac -s TAaeaa  -d tacat stPes   -rlt2.)
eeptaca   fc  4W-t.MAt-4Ieat470-Il.                                                . rfet tse  te-a  elatI PM.ptsc le  gd 15 7oro--         ct
fre. cgc  css  actchaesat   a! 1ccbleh  cer Ib.eed at .11-
code mcOaseachst-  astech    t hs                           ei .d-net                    Paccas. tar  last cheatd a,re-tsle   - ?eecgcar              LffIe  se
ft.eearas,la   T-t. -  n,.    a    tdaesa  secthe  eeltt -sLrlet...-     -"
-or tccyra..  .s.t!rtln--Y55  cecas  asce  tic ru6t. i4S. ashaassc                               -- gcee  cota t W;ncasat at paottes eeas-
feett clacia Mtn         f.  oe  r.bos.-dcj - taaa  aste  at saaycS                        sae     -1 f-eco  dat tI- reet yetsc            t a  he cein.tel  sta-e P-c
last-                                                                          TV a-rln-  Is.  checd y.acca) - TrIItcaLosc  ta  b.teeasc Cc
reli  rts,ea   (orcer  t crrle  ee) -tocoetc       - ssr_a eaqta    'Eul gth ctcsd  esete:clde  erlce-d T. rarscat
tart as i-na asisidae flci hecc   . tetta    ao   -eec -  (ed..-.             tca-. ccst _ ttst.c  Yac  Lteaks   a  Leel- te    - tel-t   e
hoes at aelesl sarteir cgeacat gnat etibta; 1942-fl,1470. satptil
date.                                                                                 ta  raft- -ftmd ~     LPIt
---;te  as chanc  tO e;:e-  Nat angc.te sadi. el-c  feet. -..a.                          ee s IVA 90. f9It eS  143 dtL
9oatlescat  is--   teed ycseota. -A  I-aac. Isdctlaeas                                     eeI  tte ) - Fecala Isle face - carceete  atcs   ab,ies
5o.icraaai   aonits by hr T  hated as aby.tstsltc  eade is, ses.                   AMcier  C   -s1er  - taber forc  S. fe-ice. is.sty. i-la c cid
(                   srr~~~L.Icy oct health c--lisis  eatlr   it aL     salrW ady seighac                       us"  accg  attaa  Isa  tar.t lo0. 1cM0 as lii dai."
a-aeAt.-srtoLee& ifrvlelc   as aiacst so 10 cecct Ise.                              isteer  (Cacca  eLace  tar,iscslg W         ecrrafisa  ae        faetl
cehealcdtaat19hZt  tit  .fu   date-                                                  art                    -Wraty   se   asas -  Warteca. at ccta iLAt fein   it..
hr  paita  mat, atcerC.-tt   tar deal - Prtnies eta  sf gP-  sglcs                            1970 at"Ii  da-a
soqiccete Xtsralra.ty   _abltchri by CtOA pc,i1da Far Lict-                                 .iiy,enaereae    iteI. ale, sat feaLe Lahe  Zecac
cilaeac. af 60 tees at tas  Pte-et gee day at It Kea  at salad at                        P-trtta e  e tact2. risI  as teat. caalatee Ef -XI age  rsasctlcy-.
pos  acl.o  ditt  It gre  eb-Id in estea  pe- s.Te                               1940. tilt, at 2951 da.._ The.a an hosed-   1spetciatce
as  alel Mcet ac- eeAg  far the ertd. rn-Ped by 7.00 L. s ta   etse  r  rest e aae
aerloes tree esiostc sad psia,stb is ares pee day;.tibi-bI. 2970 as lilt
data.                                                                           fi ki fPe.t iISIhlOfl1ea W -.9                           P         4  P-      .
thIs  ltt  2aturti Ot.  LLCr cr,ad-    aea1t7 -ah  paI thciiI                       cceess   ttc.ln.t-tsI  o   a   at     aacdb   ihc
et   ry  -   e. eflirei  le   g   ace  a es  sslgeatoaetehe   0pecs.pare  e tcal,a    stat4   atst.
cencise  .sto&-rtea fe lIe talea; hos itil sd hU  dats            hesecIde.t-       C--
-Pcrt I11. ile s   2591                      -bi.               -F.                        h  Iasreta ofOacldrebl  tetc.
yct t  t rPot cics.aed LIi.. b-th: ie,-      i  s.d 3431 dee.                             flas1-c  gePercy P-II  l.-i to  ha  cicP-   -piet. hea seat- ad a -et
tes  t ar_isa  !ea .ac   at  setacla t - cos!  iute  e-  Mega -M                            - sactcesll  .deect dIsc pl- a       tIa   e-etrci aeI-
aserepl Ltele   tris  ccaat  -lets            P t.- carstdb t                      tt         1-atecc   cac   leant Isoel II1 C.r cepel  f-  lbt. as  arl 
eaec 'tetdtaa.ng  eaW cha teeP- reasacd beahec  eali0i at-                        Ca1      eto g   enaj,tt focc be,.,d  le s1nutt  S. aoteaprat
calr -clc  as pacecas -    ef~ -hl b el geitLor peteio.R a                            ,rastlae --        acEteaed. 0che tenetL ts ata   hc th  react
cas  .-a    eIt ia-tale o           -iitre  lcd  a-tY ctst ohs  tOtf eaeWeo   lhajsec   a   ihres  tIe                               aatma.
t-~  hs  bceIy  e     - accleede ineg  ctcti    P.t rsc -hl  mn  at chrftee    rleahle0at.   oretts  ln   trts).tt
ro tal- 'ireNpal ceseIX 1- at.cicn th rel  esoad by sotesce                                                                             S   . UM  L.
h.;..a  5                    bscaalae   cue -r a-i-aln   essee.  itreas -  Ptcaay.g.`cal                                                                  IP
-Y tslaa tn aLetti. tdipel ct   tctbc  ts1-t                                                                           eei  as Satlha   oSs



- 28 -
ANNE%X 
Page 4 of 6
population: 1,008 mtilion (mid-1982)
CNP per capita:  USS300 (1982)
CRINA - ECONOMIC tUDICATORS
Annual Crowth CX) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1g9n   1981   19HZ
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                     2.2      3.4      9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                  8.3      7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                 11.6      9.3     15.6    7.7    1.4  -4.7    9.9
Net Material Product (NMP)        5.2      4.8     12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970     1977    197    1Q79   Y180    19A    198Z
Prices
Retail price Index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
MP deflator         (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    9s.   100.5    104.5   105.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate       (Y/USS)      2.46    2.46   .1.86    1.68      1.55    1.50    1.71  .1.89
Amount                                                   Average Annual Growth
1982                 9bares of GDP CZ)                  (X) at Constant Prices
National Accounts            (S billion)   1957    1979    1982    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-RZ  leg-90
fa      la
GD?                          260.4      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   579       537        6.0      6.5
Agrlculture                 96.1       .    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6          3.2      5.8      3.2
Industry                   105.4         ,,    43.5   40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1        8.9       7.4      8.2
Other                       58.9         ,.    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5       4.3       1.2      7.1
Consumption                  181.6       76.4    E8.4    69.7    73.s   76.7    2.7        5.4       5.7      7.4
Investment                    73.2       23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8       6.8       :.3      4.8
Exportc G}FS                  24.9        3.7/b   6.0      9.6     8.7     8.1    1.61b   S.Olb   14.1        4.3
Imports GNFS                  19.3        3.5Pb   6.6     7.4    10.0      9.8    2.37JT   g.6OF    2.7       7.9
National savings              79.6       23.6!c  31.9    30.6    26.4    23.0
As X of CDP
Public Finance                                1957          1979         1981
Current revenues (exc3uding foreign         28.7         27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                        16.1          17.7         14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                 +12.6         +9.7          +8.0
Capital expenditures                        11.0         15.1           8.8
Foreign borrow-ug /d                         0.7           0.9          1.6
Other Indicators                            1957-79   1979-82   1932-85   lqb5-90
/a
GDP growth rate (X)                         5T        6.n        5.7       7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (1)              3.5       4.6        4.4       5.8
Energy consumption grouth rate (2)          8.3
ICOR                                        5.4        ..         ..       3.8
Marginal savings rate                       0.42        ,,        ..      0.16
Import elasticity                           0.95     0.45       1.82      0.93
/a NMP basis.
7T  Goods only.
Id Gross.



-29-                                              ANEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 1.008 million (mt1-1982)
GNP per capita: USS300 (1982)
CQINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Aamount                             Annual Growth Rates (C)
(milllon USS at                         (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                   current prices)                   Actual                          Pro jected
1982           1978   1979   198r   19S1   1982   L383   1984   L985   1986
Exteral Trade
Merchandise exports            22,476          10.1   25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    3.3    3.'   3.3    3.0
Energy                         5,353           ..     ..      ..     ..     .  -15.1  -15.1  -15.1  -32.4
Other primary                 5,110            ..     ..      ..    ..      ..    1.Q    1.9    1.9    5.0
Manufactures                  11,356           ..     ..      ..     ..     ..   10.5   10.5   10.5    9.0
Other                            657           ..     ..      ..     ..    ..   28.2   28.2   28.2    5.0
Merchandise Ilports             17,113         32.6   21.7   16.7  -8.6   -1.1   14.7   14.7   14.7    4.5
Food                           4,003           ..     ..      ..     ..     ..    6.4    6.4    6.4    3.0
Petroleum                         0            ..     ..      ..     ..     ..    0      0       0      I
Machinery and equtpment        3,405           ..     ..      ..     ..     ..   27.7   27.7   27.7    57t
Other                          9,705           ..     ..      ..     ..     ..   20.3   20.3   20.3    4.9
Prices
Export price index (1978-100)       ..        I -).0  113.3  131.3  134.9  129.6  137.7  152.7  167.7  180.9
Import price index (1978-100)       ..        100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  124.1  148.6  164.1  179.1  192.5
Terms of trade index (1978-100)    ..         100.0   95.2   94.3   92.7  104.5   92.7   93.1   93.6   94.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (C)               Average Annual Increa^e (%)
(at current nrices)                           (at constant prices)
1978   1979   1980   1991   1qSZ   IqS5  1S90   1957-70  1970-79  1979-1I2  1982-85  1985-50
Eorts               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  V10.0  100.0  lCO.fl    1.6        8.0      14.8      3.3      5.1
Energy             13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0          ..       ..        ..   -15.1        /a
Other primary      39.7  34.1   28.4  24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8          ..       ..        ..      1.9      5.0
Manufactures       46.5  46.4   46.5  47.8  50.5   59.5   70.9           ..        ..       ..     10.5      9.1
Other               0      0       0      5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3       ..        _        ..     28.2      5.0
Imports             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       2.3      9.4       1.8     14.7      6.3
Food                 ..      ..     ..  19.6   21.5   20.0   16.8        ..       ..        ..      6.4      3.0
Energy                     0       0      a      0      0       8.2              0         0        0         Ia
Machinery and      17.5  25.2   27.5  24.2   18.2   26.7   25.1          ..       ..        ..     27.7      5.0
equipment                                                                       ..        ..    20.3       4.9
Ocher                ..      ..    ..   56.2   60.3   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With        Share of Trade With             Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (2)   DevelopinR Countries (1)          Planned Econonies (2) lb
Direction of Trade          1978            1981        1978            1981              1978           L981
Exports                   37.3            45.9        51.6            50.2              11.1            3.9
luports                   73.3            76.8        17.5            18.7               9.2            4.5
Ia  China Is expected to becorme a net inporter of petroleum between 1985 and 1990.
lb  includes the Soviet Union. vastern Furope. Cuba. North Korea and Mongolia.



-30-                                 ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CRINA - gAEANCE OF PAYMF.VNM, EXTF.RNAL CAPITAL AND DERT
(millions USS at current prices)
Actual                      'Projected
Indicator                         1978    1979    1980    1981      1982    1985    1990
(estimate)
Balance of Pavments
Exports of goods and services       10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  37,064  69,551
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.       9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  32,110  59,684
Imports of goods and services       11,912  17,582  23,946  23,626   20,096  42,209  86,018
of which: 1Yerchandise c.i.f.     10,745  15,619  21,243  20,292   17,113 .37,298  72,684
Net transfers                          597     656     640      467      471     767   1,017
Current account balance    .          -705  -1,575  -2,405   1,996   .6,364  -4,378 -15,450
Private direct investment                -       -      57      265      359     465      715
HLT loans (net)                       -830     822   1,756      769      202   3,913  16,840
Official                                      ..               ..       ..  3,231   5,546
Private                                           ..                    ..    682  11,294
Other capital                          822  1,362   1,082    -787       -250      .
Change in net reserves (   -
Increase)                           708    -609    -490  -2,243   -6,675         0  -2,105
International reserves               6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   16,245  16,842  24,158
of which:  gold                       ..      ..   5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports             6.3     4.7     3.7      5.1      9.7     4.8     3.4
External Carital and Debt
Gross disbursements          .. ..
Concessional loans                    ..      ..       .
DAC                    .. .. .. ..
OPEC                .       .               4 .. .
IDA
Other                              .. ..  ..                 .
Nonconcessional loans                 ..      .. ..           ...
Official export credits             ..      ..      ..      ..
IBRD                                .        .       .       .
Other multilateral                  ..      ..      ..      ..
Private                             .    .          ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed        ..      ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official                            ..      ..      ..      ..
Private                             ..      ..      ..      ..
Undisbursed debt                      ..      ..      ..      ..        ..
Debt service
Total service payments                ..      ..      ..      ..
Snterest                            ..     ..       ..      ..
Payments as S exports GNFS            ..      ..     5.0     748/a   10.0Ja
Average interest rate on new
loans (2)                             ..      ..      ..      ..
Average maturity of rew loans
(years)                               ..      ..      ..      ._
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPRKATIONS IN THE PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or
Credit                                                  Amounts ($ millions)
Number  Year       Borrower          Purpose          Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
2021     1981   Peoples Republic   University
1167              of China             Development   100.0  100.0    195.5
1261     1982   Peoples Republic   N. China Pla5n
of China            Agric.                 60.0     58.2
2207     1982   Peoples Republic   Ports             124.0            124.0
of China
1297     1982   People"s Republic   Ag. Ed. and               75.4     75.4
of China            Research
2226     1982   PeopleCs Republic   Industrial        40.6   30.0      70.6
1313              of China             Credit
2231/a   1983   Peoples Republic   Daqing            162.4            162.4
of China            Petroleum
2252/a   1983   People7s Republic   Zhongyuan        100.8    -         -
of China            Petroleum
lb
Total                               527.8  265.4    786.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA      521.8  265.4
Total undisbursed                   52/.8  259.1
r
B. *STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1983)
None
/a Not yet effective.
7-b Loan (No. 2261) of $35.3 million and Credit (No. 1347) of SDR 41.3 million
($45.0 million) for the Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project approved on
April 19, 1983, signed on May 20, and effective August 3.



- 32 -                      AiNEX II
,age 2 of 3
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTI01 11/A
Loan No. 2021    University Development Project $100 million loan and
Credit No.1167   $100 million credit of .'ovember 4, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: February 4, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Good progress has been made in project implementation. Contracts
have been signed for about $65 million of equipment and bids are now being
received for the second stage of equipment procurement (worth about $50 mil-
lion). Initial disbursements for technical assistance (about $300,000) have
been made and a major contract for about $5 million in expert services has
been signed.
Credit No. 1261 North China Plain Agriculture Project $60 million credit of
June 23, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 7, 1982;
Closing Date: Decenber 31, 1987
Project civil works began Immediately after credit signature and are
well under way. Progress has been especially good on excavation of the drain-
age system.
Loan No. 2207    Three Ports Project $124 million loan of November 16, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: February 2, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Tender documents for container handling equipment have been reviewed
by the Bank and are now being finalized.
Credit No. 1297  Agricultural Education and Research Project S75.4 million
credit of Xovember 16, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
February 2, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
lids have been invited for the first phase-of equipment procurement.
A contract for language training has been agreed and signed.
Loan No. 2226    Industrial Credit Project $S40.6 million loan and S30 million
Credit No. 1313  credit of December 28, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:  April 5,
1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution. and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
'weaknesses in project execution.



-                             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan No. 2231    Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development Project
$162.4 million loan of March 8, 1983; Date of Effectiveness:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Loan No. 2252    Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum Project $100.8 million loan
of April 15, 1983; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet
effective; Closing Date:  December 31, 1986
r



- 34 -                           ANNEX III
CHINA
POLYTECHNIC/TELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project               : 6 months
(b)  Project prepared by                 : The Government, with assist-
ance from Unesio
(c) Date of first mission to consider
the project                       : November 1981
(d)  Appraisal mission                   : January 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations          : July 1983
(f)  Planned credit effectiveness        : December 1983
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The State Council shall have approved the Development Credit
Agreement (para. 80); and
(b) The special account shall have been established (paras. 74 and
80).
B. Other Conditions
The Government would:
(a) use tracer surveys and agreed project indicators to monitor
and evaluate project progress (para.-64); and
(b) establish and maintain a Polytechnic Commission, a planning
and evaluation unit for polytechnics, and a research and
evaluation unit for the TVU system (paras. 64 and 67).



S  O  V  I E  T            U    N   I  O    N
/      '                                                  e ~~~~~~~~~     ~     ~ ~~~~ULAANHAATAn-
t                   >                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ~~M  O  N  G  O  L  I  A_,
+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ig Xlv J I A N G. 
tFGANISTA,                                         s               t . >          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI   M ONGO °  B  ee&>
V-     S                                                                       \,                          
c    1                                                                                         x    x  --    a  -   r    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ } | y u X 7 55 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
~~~~>-t>>{'->                                                                                     SHAXInk%4\
Am--W.EH  Aj \.o                        A  IAN  WHU
K,, ~ ~~~~~                                               ~      ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ A N S Ch ngaDuh  h-_
X ~~ _ ;? .r i 1 . != _ e , ) H U N~~k                                 A a
I NW DEH        IFAN A                        ~                                  A'      t l                   "-uHUBEI_
7  ,\,, )    ¢              >                            r       c U A Al G X I  jF<.CerqW,4lk 
~~~>' B cz f O r ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S ,,;, AN                                                 J7 /% -lLA EP5ingJ
_   g    r-         s.A DEMOCRATIC}    {                    < )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
X                            SL                S               s REPUB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LICm N_ViETa NAM (n_
vf-t                                                                    t T  AI LAN  $)lE>@A>S--x             X                i
'  <                        <  J  .            \             {,f'    '      \.^   ; j\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cm-



IBRD 1 7037R
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UL                                                                    iMn_  
_  '   _ _
-I,LANUAATAnl>,,                                                  iibl  
L    I    A               _                            Jci,,       li,o n  e l )JV
g                       r rt l~~~~~~~~~ A O N I N 6 \ < 
>            r   ,   t r    91 nv n"O oF"lthuSol nv n
*_               r   2    ~    , x Jntoue e  Dox J    DEMOCRATIC
hh.                                 n        PEOPlE'S REPUBLIIC                               s 
ILDn             011thol     ,ReFIJING SHI Oinhutmno                   O  KRE
Bf oto °7 r                                       PiN     YONGYANG-.
.4  J       - 5W. ~~~~~Tl liln Inl0htn   o iLudo IDelinI  .
r             Bmde''lV PANIIN SHI                          I t SEOUL                               *T tOKYO
Yinchutm    .              AShIllozhugn '-   Yantal o                        REPUBL IC
z . (,1 TiVusn&   e    EH Li8 r                                        l  nOf KOREA
-    / S H ~~A *N1 I      JimA             4)                                .
r t   \          9    $ ~~~~~~~~~S HADrOO NG    olange o
>  R  t          I     /  e~~~~~~~~jbining _
_  {)            _ ~~~Xlnxiani,-  ,9 eLnvi r
f    ~   Xi ny nt -Luovang°     K.11;n, -Il Xh-u
J^,ule Xl n e t MHE NVA N                 ) JIA. N G S (J
An *D _                                      - eY   lhou
SHIAANXI                           :j Heale *1   tv   e m; 0 g
v^;~~~~~~~~~J <IM  N vHi Vw?  AS:     HA1                              C H I N A
H M V flE I       N,             H-shou Nir Su
jinln  2u^                         )*    t    POLYTECHNIC /TV UNIVERSITY                                      r
-~~~~~~~ Jlninge  Ht-t .hu iI-                                          PROJECT
*ChonW-   J                  eqng -                                  PROJECT INSTITL  IONS AND  FACILITIES
.,,  L  1    Ch_        J / A ~CPWN G X I                         il CENTRAL RADIO AND TV UNIVERSITY ICRTVUI
Zuy          Xianigtan e) e-        JOYECNC
- =   Zunyi  R   ~~HUVN AN              -     FuzhoaPOYTCHtC
H nvvm nge                F U J I A NV                A    MINOR TVU PRODUCTION CENF-RS
:-r a  OU   S                                                             *    MAJOR TVU I ROCIUCTION CENTERS
< > ~~~~~~~~~~t { ~~~~~~~AND TRAi SMISSION STXATIONS
Xi nwn                          e   STUDY CENTERS (NUMBER OF CENTERS)
r -~~~    co. S~'N xSeougutn             a w     rAINAN           2
_-       o~~~L.iurhou    GVNCON %                                     '' .-   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
~           GUANDON                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
G U A N G XI {Gu_Whou
tFo lun !PA
_    Nanningt ID    '         .-'-*;;ONG KONG~UK.
KlLOMETtRIS °      1        D      60       H,       W
<  5$0M                                        ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~             ~     ~~~     ~    ~~~~~MILES    2040D 0i
'0                                                                                    2bo06
r              -I                          ;                                   l__ u_s__
km                                   -                                   ,,,               -      __



