Dociun tof
The World Bank
FORt OFFICAL USIE ONLY
Report NY.   12496
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
POLYTECHNIC/TELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1411-CHA)
NOVEMBER 17, 1993
MI CROGRAPH I CS
Report No:         12496
Type: PCR
Environment, Human Resources and Urban Development
Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1993)
Currency   Renminbi (RMB)
Unit   Yuan (Y)
US$1.00 - Y5.7
Y1.00 - $0.18
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CRC       Chinese Review Commission
CRTVU     Central Radio and Television University
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
FILO      Foreign Investment and Loan Office
IAP       International Advisory Panel
NEC       Municipal Education Commission
MOE       Ministry of Education
PCR       Project Completion Report
PEC       Provincial Education Commission
PTVU      Provincial Television UTniversity
SEdC      State Education Commission
UDPI      University Development Project
TVU       Television University
Note:   At the time of project appraisal, the chief implementing agency was
known as the Ministry of Education. In 1985, as part of a major
decision on education reform, this agency was renamed the State
Education Commission to reflect its change in status to an agency
directly under the State Council. In this document, the agency is
generally referred to as the State Education Commission (SEdC).



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WaShington, O.C. 20433
U.SA
wa tIons Evauaton
November 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM To THE EXEE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECD: Project Completion Report on China
Polytechnic/Television University Project (Cr. 1411CHIA'
Attached is the Project Completion Report on China - Polytechnic/Television
University Project (Cr. 1411-CHA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project substantially, if unevenly, achieved its main objectives of expanding
capacity and enrollments, and enhancing instructional quality in the new polytechnic and
television University systems. Outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project is
remarkable for the fact that it had significant accomplishments despite a range of constraints,
including hasty and inadequate preparation and supervision, faulty design, a shifting economic
and sector policY context, risky institutional innovations and complex, partly unforeseeable,
technological problems with equipment. On the positive side, the commitment of project staff
and the responsiveness of Bank staff in identifying and proposing solutions to issues smoothed
the rough path which the project trod.
The project only partially achieved its institutional development objectives with
regard to staff of project institutions, project management staff and subsector planning and
evaluation capacity building. This was largely due to inappropriate technical assistance and
fellowship programsIand unintegrated management, especially the polytechnic and television
University components which belonged to different systems.
Sustainability is uncertain despite the mushrooming of polytechnics outside the
project. This is because: (a) evolving policy in vocational and higher education renders the
future of project institutions unclear and no follow-up plans have been made; and (b) there
are risks that possible localized funding and management may be weak under the current
trend toward; decentralization.
Ihe PCR is thorough, frank and analyticaL
No audit is planned for this project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the peformance of their official
duties. is contents may not otheniwse be disciosed wthout World Bank authoization.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
POLYTECHNICYTELEVISION UNIVERSIT' PROJECT
(Credit 1411-CHA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Background  ......  .           ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .    . .
Project Objectives and Description  ................ .                         2
Project Design .......................... . 3
Project Implementation ...................... . 4
Major Results of the Project  ................... .                            7
Project Sustainability  .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Bank Performar'ce ......................... . 10
Borrower Performance ....................... . 11
External Advisors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Project Relationship ....................... . 12
Project Documentation and Data  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 12
Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....  .            .  .  .  .  .    . 14
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III . . . . . . .14
Comments on the Analysis in Part I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Bark Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
2.   Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements . . . . . . . . . .25
4.   Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components . . . . . . . .26
5.   Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
6.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
7.   Project Indicators. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
8.   Project Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
9.   Status of Credit Covenants. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
10.  Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle. . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
11.  Mission Data by Stages of Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Evaluation Report of the International Advisory Panel and
Chinese Review Commission (Executive Summary)
Annex 2: Participants in Final Evaluation Visit (March/April 1990)
This document has a restrkted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authodration.



- i "
CHINA
POLYTECHNICtTELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
(Credit 1411-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Polytechnic/Television University Project in China, for which a Credit (1411-
CHA) in the amount of SDR 79.6 million was approved on September 13, 1983.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1992, two and a half years behind schedule.
By June 30, 1990, implementation of the project as app .ised was substantially
completed. To utilize credit savings of approximately SDR 13 million, an
equipment maintenance account was established in April 1990, with the approval
of the Association's Board of Directors and amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA). The account continued disbursing through mid-1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Environment, Human Resources, and
Urban Development Division, China and Mongolia Department, East Asia and
Paoific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the
Borrower, represented by the State Education Commission (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was organized during a completion mission of
the project in March/April 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; Development Credit Agreement; annual progress reports of the
Borrower; reports of the International Advisory Panel and Chinese Review
Commission for the project; evaluation questionnaires and reports by the
project institutions; reports of specialists who visited project institutions
to provide training and technical assistance; correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



-iii-
CHINA
PQLYTECHNIC/TELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
(Credit 1411-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Sumnary
Introduction
1.           This was the third Bank-assisted project in education for China,
and the ninth operation to be approved following the Government's renewal of
membership in the World Bank in 1980. The two preceding education projects
supported development of existing key natioral universities and agricultural
colleges and research institutes, and were completed in June 1985 and December
1988, respectively. This project was undertaken to further develop and expand
access to post-secondary education through ralatively new institutions that
could provide cost-effective, vocationally-oriented programs for recent
secondary school graduates and adults whose education had been disrupted
during the Cultural Revolution. The project was appraised in January-February
1983 and approved in September 1983. Total costs were estimated at US$206.2
million, of which US$84.8 million equivalent was to be financed by an IDA
credit. The project was originally scheduled to close on December 31, 1989
but has been extended to permit completion of staff development programs in
1990 and disbursement of an equipment maintenance account in 1991-92. The
project was completed in June 30, 1992. Including the maintinance account,
the actual project costs have been US$202 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$92.1 million.
Objectives and Project Content
2.           Development of the project institutions supported the
Government's effort to alleviate shortages of skilled manpower that hindered
the pace of modernization and economic growth. China's television university
system (TVU) had been reopened in 1979 and was to be expanded and modernized.
The polytechnics in the project, among the first group of such institutions in
China, were to constitute a new form of post-secondary education by providing
two or three year diplomas through programs that were non-residential,
required payment of fees and did not guarantee jobs to graduates. The project
objectives were to increase the numbers of graduating technicians, improve
instructional programs and strengthen management of both types of post-
secondary institutions. To assist the polytechnic system, the project
included development of 17 polytechnics through campus construction or
renovation, provision of educational equipment, and a program of curriculum
and staff development. To assist the TVU system, the project included
construction and equipping of television production, laboratory and printing
facilities for the Central Radio and Television University (CRTVU);
construction and equipping of production, laboratory, audiovisual, and
classroom facilities at 28 provincial television universities (PTVUs);



- iv -
establishment of transmission stations for nine major provincial television
universities; a pilot program of study centers in rural areas; and training
and technical assistance for TVU staff. The project also provided for
technical assistance and equipment related to evaluation and planning of
ir.vestments in these and other educational systems.
3.           In March 1990, the Board approved an amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement to establish an Equipment Maintenance Account for Bank
education projects from the unutilized funds from the project.
Implementation Experience
4.           Initial implementation was slower than expected, with
disbursements at about 11% of appraisal estimates by the end of the first year
of effectiveness.  Slow disbursements were related to reasonable delays in
construction and procurement, and difficulties in launching the technical
assistance program. With increased effort by implementing agencies and
support of external specialists, disbursements accelerated in 1986 and
cumulative disbursements reached more than 200% of appraisal estimates for
that year. At the end of 1992 disbursements had reached 107% of the estimated
credit total of $85.0 million.
5.           During implementation, the SEdC coordinated the provincial
education bureaus and project institutions in procurement and installation of
equipment, participated in technical assistance activities, and in preparation
of annual progress and auditing reports to the Bank. Local officials and
university leaders worked diligently to implement the project. The SEdC and
individual project institutions received advice and assistance in planning and
management of technical assistance from an International Advisory Panel and
Chinese Review Commission financed under the project.
6.           In terms of project issues, problems stemming from project design
were encountered in implementing the training and technical assistance. The
computing equipment selected to aid management of the TVU system turned out to
be unsuitable for administration of these institutions and was not able to be
fully utilized. Availability of satellite technology for educational
broadcasting in China was not anticipated at appraisal but came about in 1986
and has had broad impact on distance education in general and on the project
investments.
Results
7.           The educational capacity of both the polytechnics and TVUs has
been increased significantly. More than one million graduates with vocational
college diplomas and several million other adult certificate holders have been
educated at the project institutions during i-mplementation. The 17
polytechnics established under the project are important examples for more
than 100 other polytechnics established in recent years by provincial and
municipal governments throughout the country. The television universities
have been substantially modernized and expanded into a countrywide system that
can be adapted to changing national and local labor requirements. There is



svidence of improvement in the quality of instruction through improved
teaching methods and increased amounts and relevance of practice undertaken by
students in conjunction with classroom learning. Thtc scope of instruction
offered has broadened through development of many new study fields and courses
in science and engineering as well as the social sciences, finance and foreign
languages. Significant development of management and administration systems
has been achieved in only some of the project institutions. There has been
less progress than expected in evaluation and planning systems.
8.           Fur-ls from the Maintenance Account were provided to 28
institutions for the procurement of spare parts and accessories. This account
has provided a source of funds for the institutions to make purchases of spare
parts and accessories in a timely manner, thus resultin. in increased
utilization rate of their equipment.
Sustainability
9.           With China's ongoing efforts to modernize, there will be
continued demand for the kind of post-secondary education that the project
institutions are now well-established to provide. The polytechnics and TVUs
are evolving, however, in ways that will make it difficult to fulfill or
sustain the original concept of SEdC and the Bank of locally managed
institutions that function more or less similarly across the country according
to centrally articulated policies.  A key question in the fucure development
of the polytechnics and TVUs is to what extent central government policies and
available resources cani be used to support and guide development of these
institutions, especially if the burden of financing and management is
increasingly shouldered by local institutions.
10.          As the funds in the Maintenance Account are repaid over an 18-24
month period from the borrowing institutions other institutions from previous
Bank-financed projects may borrow funds for spare parts and accessories.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.          The principal lessons learned during project preparation,
implementation and evaluation, wlth implications to other projects, are
summarized below:
(a)  Project design and preparation should be based on v-.derstanding
of the broad policy context of the operation and, to the extent
possible, should incorporate existing local institutions,
resources and expertise.
(b)  It is important that the design of large-scale technical
assistance programs in China provide for involvement of people
and institutions in China who are allocated the time and
resources to guide visiting foreign specialists.
(c)  Assessment of staff development needs and potential training
solutions must take into account the current skill level and
experience of the target group.



- vi -
(d) To the extent possible, there needs to be continuity of staff in
project supervision and adequate resources and attention to
reorientation in the case of staff turnover.
(e) Systems for monitoring and evaluation of investments in
educational institutions, especially new ones, need to be
continually assessed and refined. If indicators are found to be
unsuitable or rnot useful, they should be revised.
(f)  To maximize returns on investment in long-term external project
advisors, it is essential that there be close and continuous
coordination of the Government's implementing agencies, the
external advisors and Bank staff responsib   for supervision.



CHlIN
POLYTECHNIC/TELEVISION ,IgERSITY PROJECT
(Credit 1411-CHA)
RJECT COMPLETION R
PART i. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identitv
1.1          - Project Name: Polytechnic/Television Uni-ersity Project
- Credit No.:   1411-CHA
- RVP Unit:      East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, China and
Mongolia Department
- Courtry:       China
- Sector:        Education
- Subsector:     Higber Education
B. Proect_ Backtround
1.2          Sector Development Objectives.  In support of China's ambitious
modernization effort, the Bank's lending to the Government in education in the
early 1980G was aimed at helping to alleviate severe shortages of skilled
manpower, especially in science and engineering. These shortages stemmed from
the disruption of post-secondary education and China's isolation during the
Cultural Revolution. Access to higher education in China was limited, with an
enrollment ratio of 2.1% of the age cohort in 1981 compared with 5% in other
developing countries. Bank assistance was thus directed toward expanding
opportunities and access to higher education. Specifically, the Government
had decided to develop conventional universities, establish a system of short-
term vocational colleges (polytechnics), and develop its television university
(TVU) system. The TVU had been started in the early 1960s to train science
teachers, closed during the Cultural Revolution, and reopened in 1979.
1.3          Policy Context.  In 1983, as the project was being developed, the
Government's reform program was achieving progress in rural areas and reform
efforts were increasing in the industrial sector. These were strong "push"
factors for development of higher education. Yet, the cost implications of
expanding conventional universities under existing policies of free boarding,
tuition and scholarships for students and guaranteed job assignment for
graduates were viewed by the Government as constraints to further expansion of
these higher education institutions. The polytechnic and TVU systems were
seen as a faster and less costly means of expanding post-secondary education
to produce middle-level technicians. Polytechnics were to offer post-
secondary technical education to recent upper secondary school graduates. TVU
education was initially to upgrade the skills of currently employed workers
and over time to enroll an increasing proportion of secondary school
graduates. New education policies were to be introduced through the
polytechnics. In contrast to conventional universities, these institutions



would be non-residential, students would pay tuition, and graduates would not
be guaranteed future employment.
1.4          Linkages Between groject. Sector and Policy Objectives.  The
polytechnics and television universities developed through the project are
making an important contribution to meeting China's requirements for
technical, managerial and other qualified manpower to support modernization
and development. The policy innovations in the polytechnics (described in
para. 2 above) have been launched but in some respects were -.ot able to be
fully implemented because they were dependent on broader reforms in housing
policies, enterprise management. wages or the labor assignment system.
C. Project Obiectives and Descriptions
1.5          Project Objectives.  The specific objecti- s of the project were
to: (a) increase the output of technicians from the initial group of
polytechnics and expand the enrollment capacity of the TVU system; (b) raise
the quality, scope and relevanca of instruction; and (c) improve the standards
of management in both systems. The project institutions were to work toward
targets to be attained by the end of the project with respect to enrollment
levels, student-teacher ratios, the number of specializations and courses,
space utilization and other efficiency measures (Part III, Table 7).
1.6          Project Components.  The project was to consist of tlhe following
components:
(a) Polytechnic System--(i) establishment or improvement of 17
polytechnics, including construction or renovation of libraries,
laboratories, and classrooms; (ii) provision of educational
equipment, including laboratory, language laboratory and
audiovisual equipment and computers, books and teaching
materials; (iii) a program of curriculum and staff deve'opment,
including training seminars, fellowships, and local and overseas
study tours for teaching staff;
(b)  Television University System--(i) construction and equipping of a
production center, a laboratory center and printing facility to
assist the Central Radio and Television University (CRTVU); (ii)
in the 28 provincial television universities (PTVUs),
construction and equipping of about 9 major and 19 minor
production centers, and about 85 study centers, each consisting
of a laboratory, audiovisual and classroom facilities; (iii)
construction and equipping of transmission stations at nine major
(PTVUs); (iv) a pilot program of study groups in rural areas and
provision and equipping of classrooms for use by these study
groups; and (v) staff development for CRTVU and PTVU staff
through provision of local training, overseas fellowships and
study tours, and specialist services.
(c)  Evaluation and Planning--Improving and assisting the evaluation
of current investments in the polytechnic and television



university systems and planning and preparation of future
investments in these and other educational systems through
provision of local training, overseas fellowships and study
tours, specialist services and related equipment.
(d) Near the end of the Project, the Board approved an amendment to
the Credit Agreement to establish an equipment Maintenance
Account with the unutilized funds (savings) from the Project.
The account provided a fund for institutions from Bank education
projects to borrow foreign exchange for the purchase of spare
parts and accessories.
D. Project Design
1.7          The project was designed in a remarkably s' irt period,
considering that China had only resumed its membership and borrowing activity
with the Bank in 1980. This was the third education project in China
developed in a period of approximately three years (Part III, Table 1);
implementation of the two previous projects was underway but in relatively
early stages. In the Bank, a single task manager was responsible for all
three of these projects. Conceptualization and preparation for the
Polytechnic/TVU Project were initiated during the appraisal mission for the
Agricultural Education and Research Project in late 1981. The project was
organized through a preparation mission in October 1982 followed by appraisal
in January 1983. A total of approximately 80 staff and consultant weeks were
devoted to the project from preparation through negotiations. Additional
expatriate assistance in project preparation was provided to the Government by
UNESCO and specialists hired by SEdC with funds available for project
preparation under the first University Development Project (UDPI).
1.8          The aim of the project - to develop higher education in a cost-
effective manner through these relatively new kinds of institutions was
mutually understood by SEdC and the Bank, and considered innovative in the
Chinese context. The design incorporated features of the earlier UDPI
Project. Common elements included: (a) the project was to support a
relatively large number of higher education institutions (in this case 46) in
various provinces throughout the country, with overall project coordination
and policy guidance by SEdC in Beijing; (b) the bulk of investment under the
project was to be for equipment and civil works to expand and upgrade
facilities at all institutions, with review of planned expenditures and
procurement to be coordinated centrally; (c) overseas fellowships and
expatriate technical assistance were to be provided for staff development in
project institutions; (d) allocations to individual universities and the
schedule of implementation were to be basically common for participating
institutions; and (e) implementation of physical and technical assistance
inputs to the project institutions were to proceed simultaneously after
project effectiveness. An additional common element of the Polytezhnic/TVU
Project to UDPI was inclusion of an International Advisory Panel (IAP) and
Chinese Review Commission (CRC) which would advise SEdC and the project
institutions and, with assistance from an IAP secretariat based overseas,
would support SEdC in defining and managing a technical assistance program of



- 4 -
specialist visits and study tours. (This latter feature was not described in
the appraisal report, although it had been discussed during preparation).
1.9          In implementation, the design proved to be inappropriate in
several respects, mainly because the project institutions differed from the
universities supported under UDPI. In comparison with the key conventional
universities, the polytechnics and TVUs were new and less well-established,
had fewer international contacts, were generally staffed with less experienced
faculty, and offered more vocationally oriented programs. Unlike the UDPI
universities, which are national in status and receivp most of their financial
support directly from SEdC, the polytechnics and PTVUs are managed and
financed primarily by provincial and municipal governments; thus SEdC's
influence was somewhat less direct under this project. Not only were the
project institutions different from conventional universities, but the
polytechnic and TVU systems differed from one another I terms of educational
delivery. The polytechnics used a more traditional classroom approach while
the TVU was based on an innovative use of technology in study centers often
linked to enterprises. Uniting the development of these two very different
systems into a single project that involved extensive foreign involvement
proved a complex undertaking for SEdC.
E. Project Imolementation
1.10         The start-up of implementation was slower than expected, with
disbursements at about 11% of appraisal estimates at the end of the first year
of effectiveness. With progress in civil works, and with large procurement
packages and the establishment of the IAP/CRC to support technical assistance
management, implementation accelerated to reach more than twice the level of
cumulative appraisal disbursement estimates by the end of 1986. Thereafter,
disbursements increased moderately and leveled off in 1989. The variances
between planned and actual project implementation were: (a) the program of
overseas fellowships for staff development was only about half that estimated
at appraisal; (b) some television production equipment purchased under the
project is not being used as extensively as expected; (c) specialist visits to
project institutions were not as useful and relevant to project institutions
as expected; and (d) evaluation and planning for the TVU and polytechnic
systems under the project was not undertaken as envisaged at appraisal.
1.11         The shortfall in overseas fellowships occurred mainly because
there were fewer candidates than estimated from the polytechnics and
television universities who had the requisite language skills for study in a
foreign country. The problem was recognized duiing the first year of
implementation, and steps were taken by SEdC and the project institutions to
provide for appropriate language training. Even with these efforts, however,
the total number of fellowships could not reach the levels estimated at
appraisal. This problem could have been avoided through more careful
assessment of staff training needs in the project institutions during project
design. It might have been more appropriate and cost-effective to address a
greater proportion of training needs within China using domestic expertise.



1.12         There is underutilization of facilities and equipment provided
under the project for the production of educational television programming at
some of the PTVUs. Reasons vary across institutions but often include faulty
studio design or construction, shortages of qualified technical staff, or lack
of operating funds. An overall factor is limited transmission time for
locally produced educational television at provincial and municipal TV
stations. In their broadcasting, these stations must give first priority to
TV education programs produced, approved and broadcast nationwide under the
auspices of CRTVU. In a few cases, PTVUs are contracted by CRTVU to produce
programming used nationwide, but in general this does not make full use of
provincial capacity, and there are limited incentives for PTVUs to invest in
program development. In hindsight, it might have been possible to avoid low
returns on some investment in this equipment had there been more thorough
appraisal of central policies that were to guide TVU broadcasting and of the
perceived needs of CRTVU and PTVUs to develop local pro action capacity. A
more efficient alternative to investment in new capacity might have been the
upgrading or expansion of production facilities at local television stations,
although coordination across institutional boundaries in China is sometimes
problematic.
1.13         Given the innovative nature of the project institutions, it was
believed that exchange of ideas with foreign specialists would assist project
institutions to adopt new ideas and make good use of technology. In project
evaluation (described in para. 33), responses to a questionnaire and follow-up
queries during the project completion mission revealed that one quarter of
project institutions reporting in the evaluation found the visits and
workshops by foreign specialists of little or no use to their staff.
Institutions reported a gap between the foreign specialists' knowledge and
advice and the conditions faced in Chinese institutions. Contributing factors
may have been the differences of the polytechnics and TVUs from conventional
universities (see para. 8), insufficient allowance of time and resources for
briefing of foreign specialists and preparation by the specialists, and a lack
of intensive involvement by Chinese specialists in the design and delivery of
workshops. What has been learned from this experience is that future projects
need to incorporate more Chinese specialists to help assess needs, design and
evaluate training programs, and brief and guide visiting specialists.
1.14         The appraisal envisioned that CRTVU and SEdC would be supported
under the project thrcugh a component for evaluation and planning (para. 5
(c)). The DCA speciried that units for evaluation of polytechnics and the TVU
system would be established and maintained in SEdC and CRTVU, respectively,
but no explicit terms of reference were agreed during preparation or
implementation for the functions of these units under the project. There was
no unit established in SEdC to oversee the polytechnic system per se. Since
1987, the Bureau of Technical/Vocational Education in SEdC has been designated
as responsible for the polytechnics. For evaluation and planning of TVUs, the
CRTVU originally assigned responsibility to its administrative office, but
this role became difficult to carry out as administration of the TVU system
was decentralized. The Bureau of Audio-Visual Education in SEdC is now
responsible for overseeing the TVU system. Responsibility for evaluation of
project investments in the polytechnics and TVUs and for reporting to the Bank



has been assumed by the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of SEdC, but
this evaluation role is unlikely to be sustained after project completion.
Under the project, there has been little systematic forward planning for
polytechnic and TVU education by the central government and no future projects
have been prepared to support these systems.
1.15         Project Risks.  Of the project risks identified in the appraisal
report, the uncertainties arising from the "newness of the polytechnic
institutions and the policy changes for Chinese education" were of consequence
to the project. This risk was to have been mitigated by the evaluation and
planning component and by the use of project monitoring indicators. On
reflection, there might have been greater effort by Bank staff to help reduce
this risk during project preparation through more in-depth study of the local
conditions and policy context in which these institutions were being
developed, inclusion of fewer institutions in the proje-t, provision of more
intensive technical assistance based on detailed needs assessment, or phasing
certain aspects of the project in a pilot group followed by study and
expansion of successful implementation in a broader number of institutions.
1.16         Unforeseen Factors Affecting Project Implementation.  Satellite
broadcasting for education became available in China in 1986. This
development was not anticipated at appraisal but has had widespread impact on
distance learning in China. Satellite has dramatically increased the capacity
for nationwide distribution of programming from Beijing. In addition to
developing the TVU system as envisaged at appraisal, the Government has
launched an educational television channel and an in-service teacher training
program via satellite. The chief consequences of satellite use for the
project are that some terrestrial transmission equipment purchased for the
CRTVU is not used, and programming produced by PTVUs may be "crowded out' by
the CRTVU programming that is now available from Beijing. Local TV stations
providing transmission for TVU programs now operate on a "hybrid system" in
which they receive CRTVU programming via satellite from Beijing and disperse
it throughout the province by microwave relay transmitters, many of which were
putrchased under the project.  Had it been anticipated that satellite would
become available to the TVU system during the project, the investment might
have included more purchase of earth stations (which cost as little as
US$1,000 and are manufactured in China) for branch or study centers in very
remote areas, not all of which are presently served by the hybrid system.
1.17         It was not anticipated in 1983, when the outlook on higher
education in China was clearly expansionary (paras. 1-2), that development of
the project institutions might be affected by quotas on full-time enrollment.
Such quotas were implemented in universities throughout China in 1988, in part
to allow for increased resources for the effort to achieve universal basic
education. Contrary to expectations at appraisal, the polytechnics and TVUs
have not been exempted from these growth constraints in consideration of the
cost-effectiveness of their operations. The justification and full impact of
these policies on the project institutions, which also include large
populations of part-time students, has not yet been carefully analyzed.
Reliable and comparable data on total student enrollments in polytechnics and
the TVU are needed. It appears possible, however, that the quotas may be



-7-
preventing project institutions from operating at the full capacity envisioned
for project completion and thus could be resulting in inefficient use of
resources.
1.18         There has been a savings in the credit proceeds of about SDR 13
million which arose partly from lower than estimated expenditures, and partly
from fluctuations in the dollar value of the EDR over the life of the project.
This savings is being used to address the shortage of foreign exchange for
purchase of spare parts and maintenance services, an issue of sustainability
in this and other education projects in China. The Government and the
Association, with the approval of the Association's Board of Directors and
amendment to the DCA, agreed in May 1990 to establish an equipment maintenance
account that could be used as a revolving fund to maintain equipment purchased
by project institutions under this project and other education projects funded
by the Bank/IDA in China.
1.19         Decision Taken which Affected Proiect Implementation.  The type
of computing equipment selected through International Competitive Bidding and
purchased to support management and administration in the CRTVU and PTVUs has
affected project implementation. The operating system and software
compatibility of this equipment turned out to be unsuitable for the
administration of these institutions. At the recommendation of the Bank, the
SEdC employed specialists in educational and computing equipment to assist in
adoptation of the equipment to the original specifications. Staff at one of
the PTVUs devised a way in which the computers could be adapted for use in
administration and SEdC organized a workshop of the other PTVUs to disseminate
this approach. Nevertheless, in the CRTVU and all but a few PTVUs, this
equipment remains unused. It is difficult to say what additional steps might
have been taken to avoid this problem.
F. Maior Results of the Proiect
1.20         Project Objectives.  Overall, there was significant progress on
each of the major project objectives, although the degree of success varied
among institutions. Full-time enrollment in both the polytechnics and TVUs
has grown significantly during the project period but not to the high levels
envisioned during appraisal. The reported numbers of part-time students at
both types of institutions exceed appraisal estimates. There is evidence of
improvement in the quality of instruction through improved teaching methods
and increased amounts and relevance of practice undertaken by students in
conjunction with classroom learning. The scope of instruction offered has
broadened through development of many new study fields and courses in science
and engineering as well as the social sciences, finance and foreign languages,
which are seen as important for meeting social, economic and educational
needs.  Employers interviewed during the completion mission-I described
1/      Opportunistic interviews were conducted with groups of 10-20
employers of graduates at the polytechnics and TVUs visited by the
evaluation group in four provinces. Annex 2 lists members of the
evaluation team.



- 8 -
graduates of the project institutions as generally well-prepared for the
workplace and able to be trained quickly In the specific tasks of their jobs.
Development of management and administration systems, however, has been uneven
among project institutions.
1.21         ImDact of Project.  More than one million graduates with
vocational college diplomas and several million other adult certificate
holders have been educated at the project institutions during implementation.
The 17 polytechnics established under the project, among the first group of
such institutions in China are important examples for more than 100 other
polytechnics established in recent years by provincial and municipal
governments throughout the country. The television university system has been
substantially modernized and expanded and developed into a countrywide system
that can be adapted to changing national and local labor requirements.21 The
project institutions have increased participation in higher education among
upper secondary school graduates whose scores on the national examination were
not high enough for entrance to conventional university and among adults
seeking opportunities for continuing education. The Maintenance Account
provided funds to 28 Bank project institutions to procure spare parts and
accessories on an emergency basis. This enabled the institutions to procure
spare parts in a timely manner and in turn increasing the utilization rate of
the equipment.
1.22         Policy Initiatives.  With respect to the policy innovations
described in para. 2, the project provided a testing ground for new ideas but,
it appears that the policy initiatives have not extended as far as they were
expected because success depended on far-reaching reform in other sectors
whose relatiotiship to educational reform was not carefully studied during
project preparation. For example, it was intended that polytechnics be non-
residential, but the project institutions have found it necessary to build
dormitories to provide access for students who live too far away from the
campus to commute and are unable to obtain temporary housing nearby through
the housing assignment system. (In addition, polytechnics must provide
housing for staff.) Tuition has been levied for students of both types of
institutions but the fees vary widely among provinces depending on economic
conditions. They are often paid by the enterprise in the case of the TVU, and
do not appear to be established in relation to actual unit costs and plans for
cost recovery. Graduates from the polytechnics are permitted some flexibility
in choice of jobs, but in general their placement in positions must be part of
the government plan for supply of manpower. While it was originally intended
that the TVU would increasingly enroll recent upper secondary school
graduates, it appears that TVU students have further diversified to include,
for example, upper secondary school students and teachers.
21      A total of 120 TVU study centers were established under the project,
exceeding appraisal estimates by 35.



-9-
G. Project Sustainability
1.23         With China's ongoing efforts to modernize, there will be
continued demand for the kind of post-secondary education that the project
institutions are now established to provide. The polytechnics and TVUs are
evolving, however, in ways that will make it difficult to fulfill or sustain
the oriSinal concept of SEdC and the Bank of locally managed institutions that
function more or less similarly across the country according to centrally
articulated policies. A key question in the future development of the
polytechnics and TVUs is to what extent central policies aad available
resources can be used effectively to support and guide development of these
institutions, especially if the burden of financing is increasingly shouldered
by localities.
1.24         Some present policies may be constraining development and
efficiency improvements of project institutions. For example, leaders and
local government supporters of polytechnics and PTVUs envision expansion of
facilities and courses over the next several years to increase their
capability to meet local needs. If full-time enrollments are curtailed, even
with present facilities, there are likely to be rising unit costs of providing
education through these institutions and thus growing inefficiency. Central
policies are also encouraging polytechnics and PTVUs to give priority to
vocational programs for secondary school students in rural areas. Yet, in the
case of polytechnics, most campuses are located in provincial capitals or
major cities and have few or no dormitories or branch campuses. At the same
time, many local governments are seeking to develop 'their' polytechnics
toward becoming conventional four year, degree-granting universities. The TVU
system is strongly influenced by CRTVU's regulation of the examination process
and role in allocation of transmission time, yet the CRTVU plays a relatively
small role in evaluation, policy analysis, innovation and overall leadership
of the TVU system. In fact, the quality and capacity of television production
by CRTVU has been surpassed under the project by some of the stronger PTVUs.
1.25         Currently, policy decisions by the central government for the
polytechnics and, in particular, the TVUs are based on very little or
unreliable data and analysis on student enrollments, examination results,
local efforts in curriculum development, and perceived educational and
train'.ng needs of local industries. If SEdC is to guide polytechnics and the
TVU system with central policy for efficient development of institutions that
will b. able to adapt readily to meet changing local needs, there will need to
be greatly increased attention and resources allocated: to developing a
nationally standardized system of student records for the institutions;
further improving budgetary and financial management systems; training
managers; devising incentives for efficiency; and fostering cooperation among
institutions.
1.26         The central government, in cooperation with provincial and
municipal education commissions, could also play a useful continuing role in
assisting project institutions to use equipment resources efficiently by
helping to develop systems for maintaining buildings and equipment. An



- 10 -
important first step has been taken with the establishment of a revolving fund
to provide foreign exchange for purchase of badly needed spare parts (para.
17). Another possible measure is the establishment of a mechanism that would
facilitate redeployment of equipment that is not used in the project
institutions. For example, in the case of TWUs, it might be possible to
arrange for sale, auction or swap of the unused computers to other
institutions and to use the proceeds toward purchase of microcomputers for TVU
administration. These sorts of measures are difficult to initiate and
implement in China because cooperation across institutional, local and
provincial government boundaries is often complex. SEdC, however, with its
broad mandate and established links to institutions and local governments
nationwide could play an important role in helping overcome obstacles to
cooperation.
1.27         The Maintenance Account has established the basis for a source of
funds to enable education institutions to procure spare parts on an emergency
basis. SEdC expects to relend the funds once repaid and to continue the
operation of the fund.
H. Bank Performance
1.28         Major Strengths and Weaknesses.  The Bank staff mobilized a team
of qualified specialists to work with SEdC in project preparation. These
specialists and SEdC worked intensively over a short period to design and
organize a project that could be implemented as quickly as possible and to
help address what were perceived as urgent priorities in the expansion of
higher education. The Bank ensured that specialists in educational equipment
and procurement were available to assist SEdC in a special post-appraisal
mission. Bank staff helped to organize the IAP and structure implementation
of technical assistance. In hindsight, there were some costs during
implementation to the accelerated preparation in the form of unanticipated
difficulties in technical assistance (para. 12) and low returns on some
investments in equipment (para. 11). On reflection, it might have been
preferable to carry out more in-depth preparation in order to develop a better
understanding of these new institutions and the local conditions and policy
context in which they were to be developed.
1.29         A major weakness of Bank performance was in supervision.
According to the Bank's management information system, total supervision
between project effectiveness in FY84 through FY90, excluding work on the
completion report, was approximately 60 weeks or an average of less than 10
staff weeks per year. Eighteen different staff and consultants participated
in supervision, of whom seven spent more than two weeks supervising the
project in any given fiscal year. Of the 46 project institutions in 28
provinces, Bank staff visited those in about 10 major cities during
supervision. No site visits were made to the pilot TVU study centers in rural
areas. There was relatively little direct contact with the IAP and virtually
none with the CRC. Consequently, the Bank's supervision aide-memoires and
reports to Bank management either overlooked or did not systematically review
key implementation problems, namely those experienced in the specialist visits
and in the evaluation component, and failed to investigate trends in



enrollment levels and qualitative aspects of educational programs and
institutional management.
I. Borrower Performance
1.30         Malor Strengths and Weaknesses.  In view of the SEdC's limited
experience in working with the Bank at the time of project preparation, there
were some remarkable strengths in the Borrower's performance. The staff of
the Planning and Finance Department and Foreign Investment and Loan Office
(FILO) carefully and promptly developed the project proposals and assembled
the data necessary for project preparation. During implementation, SEdC
coordinated the provincial education bureaus and project institutions in
procurement and installation of equipment, participation in technical
assistance activities and in preparation of annual progress and auditing
reports to the Bank. For their part, local officials and university leaders
worked diligently to implement the project objectives as they understood them.
Shortcomings in performance are mainly related to a lack of needed adjustments
in the face of unanticipated changes or problems. SEdC staff were not closely
involved in the design, delivery and evaluation of the specialist workshops.
More steps could have been taken to improve the organization and effectiveness
of the seminars as shortcomings were reported by the IAP/CRC and specialists
themselves. It has been recognized for some time that certain equipment
purchased under the project is not utilized at some of the project
institutions, but progress has been slow in taking steps to redeploy these
items. It would also have been useful to have greater involvement of the
CRTVU and SEdC line bureaus in annual reporting and evaluation, IAP/CRC
activities, and Bank supervision.
K. External Advisors
1.31         The IAP and CRC for the project were constituted in 1985.  These
groups comprised eminent education professionals who provided advice and
support to SEdC and individual project institutions throughout project
implementation. IAP/CRC activities were centered on an annual month-long
visit to China which involved inspection visits to project institutions and
meetings with SEdC officials in Beijing to discuss issues and define technical
assistance activities for the coming year. The IAP/CRC advised on TVU program
production, curriculum development, administration and management, training
needs, and opportunities for cross-institutional cooperation. The IAP/CRC
offered many practical recommendations to SEdC, provincial and municipal
governments, and project institutions (Annex 1). With support of its
Secretariat, the IAP provided critical support to SEdC in the identification
of experts from abroad for technical assistance activities and helped to
arranged placement of fellows and programs for study tours. The IAP also
provided valuable support in the undertaking of tracer studies of polytechnic
and TVU graduates. A shortcoming of the IAP's contribution is that relatively
less attention was paid to assisting SEdC in project mnonitoring and evaluation
and to systematic analysis of issues arising during implementation, progress
in policy initiatives, and the implications of broader policies and technical
developments in China for the polytechnics and TVUs.



- 12 -
J. Project ?lationshiv
1.32         Impact QRelationships on Project Implementation.  The
relationships between the Bank and SEdC and between SEdC and the IAP/CRC and
IA secretariat could have been better integrated. Each relationship was seen
as having separate data requirements and supervision activities. For example,
the annual project monitoring undertaken by SEdC for its reporting to the Bank
was not at all integrated with the TAP's annual visits and policy meetings.
Prior to the final evaluation visit, Bank staff supervision missions
overlapped with the IAP/CRC's annual meeting on only two occasions and this
was only for debriefing, not formal participation in the Joint Policy
Meetings. Given their limited contact with SEdC or the Bank, the IAP were not
always up to date with policies in education and related sectors that affected
project implementation. What has been learned through the final evaluation is
that although key issues were discovered through the implementation management
and supervision structures, problems were not always analyzed or resolved with
all parties working together.
L.  Prolect Documentation and Data
1.33         Adequacy of Staff Apgraisal Report and Major Working PaDers.  The
SAR proved to be a useful document for specifying objectives, planning and
guiding project inputs. In hindsight, however, there were two major
shortcomings: (a) the arrangements for implementation of technical assistance
were not explicit in the SAR and thus may not have benefitted from full review
within the Bank; and (b) the evaluation and planning component was not clearly
defined and the indicators prepared for project monitoring proved difficult to
use. For reasons discussed in para. 27, the supervision reports were
sometimes scanty in the information provided and the issues reviewed.
1.34         Data for Evaluation.  In 1989, a questionnaire developed by SEdC
in consultation with the IAP/CRC was circulated to the 17 project polytechnics
and 28 provincial television universities and was completed by the
institutions in both English and Chinese. The response rate for both groups
of institutions was more that 80%. In an effort to obtain qualitative
information, SEdC also requested self-evaluation reports from each
institution. The questionnaire was interpreted differently by different
institutions, however, particularly with respect to categories of student
enrollment. Thus it is difficult to aggregate figures or draw comparisons
among institutions. Project progress reports, prepared annually throughout
implementation, provide additional data for evaluation.
M. Lessons Learned
1.35         The principal lessons learned or again confirmed, with
implications to other projects, are summarized below.
(a) Project design and preparation should be based on understanding
of the broad policy context of the operation and, to the extent
possible, should incorporate existing local institutions,
resources and expertise.



- 13 -
(b) In short-term technical assistance in China, it is likely that
specialists from other countries who are not Chinese speakers and
have little experience in China will require considerable
briefing, preparation and guidance in adapting their knowledge
and expertise to the cultural context of a Chinese institution.
It is therefore essential that the design of large-scale
technical assistance programs provide for involvement of people
and institutions in China who are able to guide this process.
(c) Assessment of staff development needs and potential training
solutions must take into account the current skill level and
experience of the individuals being assisted.
(d) To the extent possible, there should be continuity in Bank
project supervision and the likelihood of continuity should be a
consideration in the assignment of staff to supervise a given
project. When continuity is not possible, there should be
careful attention to ensure that new staff are able to spend
sufficient time orienting themselves to a project and undertaking
substantive supervision.
(e) Systems for monitoring and evaluation of investments in
educational institutions, especially new ones, need to be
continually assessed and refined. If indicators are found to be
unsuitable or not useful, they should be revised.
(f) To maximize returns on investment in long-term external project
advisors, it is essential that there be close and continuous
coordination of the Government's implementing agencies, the
external advisors and Bank staff responsible for supervision.



- 14 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  _deguacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
2.1          The Borrower recognizes that the tables of factual information
contained in Part III have formed a sufficient illustration of the key factors
relating to the evolution and implementation of the Project.
B.  Co_ments on the Analysis in Part I
2.2          General Assessment.  The Borrower agrees with the opinion of the
International Advisory Panel (IAP) and the Chinese Review Commission (CRC)
presented in the executive summary of their Evaluation report as attached in
Annex 1 of this report. Despite the shortcomings existing in its preparation
and implementation, the Project on the whole has had a significant and
beneficial impact. Furthermore, it is important to note the following
specific characteristics and conditions of the Project: (a) Both the
polytechnic and Television university (TVU) systems are new and unique in
China, and this is the first time for all the project institutions to
participate in a project financed by the World Bank. They were extremely
lacking in practical experience and had to learn while working; (b) The two
systems and the Project had close relation to the economic reform and open
policy in China. They should adapt gradually to the changing needs for
skilled manpower to achieve the reform, and meanwhile they were affected by
the related policy adjustments as well as the reform of economic development.
2.3          Project Pregaration and Design.  The TVU system was established
or restored in almost all provinces of China in 1979, the same year when the
economic reform started throughout the country. A year later, China resumed
its membership in the World Bank, and the concept of proposing an IDA credit
project to modernize and expand the system emerged soon afterwards. In 1981,
intention of creating the polytechnic university system in China and applying
for an IDA credit for its development was also evolved, despite the fact that
such an institution was first established in 1982. Thus, conceptualization
for the Project was practically initiated in late 1980. Combining the two
very different systems into a single project was only for the purpose of
enlarging the implementation. However, the two components were essentially
treated as separate projects, and hence no serious difficulties arose in
project management. At the time of project preparation, almost all the
project institutions had not been well established, some polytechnic
universities were even just created. Moreover, no complete set of guidelines
had been established and perfected to manage education projects utilizing
foreign investment and loans. The feasibility study of the Project had not
been conducted adequately in some aspects during the relatively short period
of preparation. In addition, enthusiasm of the whole society for reform and
development was strongly encouraged by the rapid progress in rural areas and
increasing demand for reform and development for the industrial sector.
"Overheating of the economy" and "excess demand" for skilled manpower
contributed to a strong "push" for the development of education sector. Under
such context, some shortcomings of the project design discovered later is



- 15 -
somewhat understandable. As a matter of fact, the designers did not
subject2.vely incorporate the features of the First University Development
Project (UDPI) in the design of this project at least in terms of intention.
2.4          Project Implementation.  An overwhelming majority of the
participants of the Project hae worked very actively and seriously in project
implementation. Although many of them were less-experienced or even
unqualified at the beginning, they learned hard on the job and gained
impressive achievements at the end. During the life of the Project, however,
a series of important decisions concerning education reform and representing
policy adjustments were made by the Government. In 1985, a general decision
on reform of educational structure was made which highly emphasized the
importance of developing technical and vocational education in China, As a
measure of carrying out the decision, the Ministry of Education (MOE) was
reorganized and promoted to the position of commission, that is the State
Education Commission (SEdC). In 1986, the National People's Congress adopted
the Compulsory Education Law. In the same year, the State Council decided to
use satellite broadcasting educational programmes. Since 1988, SEdC set
quotas on full-time enrollment in universities, including polytechnic
universities and TVUs, throughout the country as one of the measures of
improving the quality of instruction and management. All these decisions and
actions, as well as the progress of reforms in related economic and social
sectors, had considerably influenced the project implementation and several
times necessitated adjustments of project components, executing plan and
credit allocation. Another factor affecting the executing plan and causing
the adjustments was the intense fluctuation of currency exchange rates.
Therefore, some variations in the process of project implementation and the
actual results of the project could hardly have been accurately predicted and
estimated in advance. The major adjustments had been agreed by the Bank and
the Government.
2.5          Overseas Fellowshins.  Through annual review and mid-term
evaluation of the Project at the end of 1985, the planned program of overseas
fellowships for staff development was discovered too ambitious to be fulfilled
in the designated implementation period. This is mainly because of
overestimation of the quantity of candidates available from the project
institutions with qualified language skills for study abroad at appraisal.
With the consent of relevant departments of the central government and the
Bank, SEdC adjusted the program in February 1986 by (a) decreasing the number
of candidates from managerial and technical staff and increasing the number of
candidates from faculty staff, with total number reduced from 605 to 509; (b)
organizing and sending out a number of short-time study teams in place of
individual fellows; and (c) intensifying in-country language training for tVie
fellows before going abroad. Although the situation became better after the
adjustment, the revised targets were still not met at project completion.
Nevertheless, the performance of the returned fellows proved that most of them
studied quite well while abroad.
2.6          Central Radio and Television University (CRTVU). The annual
review and mid-term evaluation also revealed that, according to the status of
project implementation in the first two years, the planned equipment



- 16 -
procurement list and corresponding credit allocation to CRTVU both exceeded
the reasonable requirements. After repeated investigations and studies, it had
been understood commonly among the relevant departments that continuing to
implement the original program of procurement would most likely cause
considerable overstock and waste, especially under the circumstances that the
related civil works necessary for installation of the equipment could not be
completed on time and the technical staff necessary for operating and
maintaining the equipment was inadequate both in quantity and quality.
Therefore, the Bank and the Government reached agreement through exchanging
letters between authorized representatives that the equipment list should be
cut down and the credit proceeds should be reallocated correopondingly. The
adjustment resulted in a surplus of credit proceeds of about US $2.1 million
equivalent that were used to: (a) support the Central Institute of Educational
Research (CIER), which is committed to conduct research projects in relation
to the development of the polytechnic universities, with US $0.6 million
equivalent to equip its information center and psychology laboratory; and
(b) help equipping the newly established China Education Television (CETV)
with US $1.5 million equivalent, serving the satellite broadcasting of
education TV programs as well as some programmes produced by CRTVU. Thus, the
Project had increased two components in its composition and extended its
impact. In addition, most of the polytechnic and Television universities
(PTVUs) had also saved certain amount of their allocated credit proceeds in
procurement of equipment for the study centers in the Project. These savings
were used to equip 34 additional study centers, raising the total number from
the original 85 centers to 119.
2.7         Euipment Maintenance Account.  The project, when adjusted in
late 1988 as described above, was near completion. SEdC reviewed and checked
in detail the disbursement of the credit and estimated that there would be a
surplus of about SDR 13 million in the account at the closing date. This
amount was left mainly due to the unpredictable sharp fluctuation of the
currency exchange rates, and also partly because the adjusted program of
overseas fellowships would still not be accomplished. After intensive
discussions, the Bank and the Government agreed at last in May 1990 with an
amendment to the DCA that allowed to propose establishment of an equipment
maintenance account with this amount, which is expected to provide assistance
to the sustenance of the equipment of the beneficiaries. As a creative
proposal, the program won the overall support of the concerning parties.
2.8          The Maintenance Account Borrowers.  By the end of 1992, the
Account had loaned US$ 17.171.664.90 to 28 Project institutions which are
mainly from the First University Development Project and the Polytechnic TVU
Project.
2.9          The equipment purchased under the account are mainly the spare
parts and accessories for: (a) testing and analysis -- electric mirror, infra-
red absorbing instrument, ultra-violet absorbing instrument, etc.; (b) the
medium-type and super computers such as Fujitsu and Honeywell; and (c) the
instruments for Physics and Biology. All the spare parts and accessories were
delivered by the end of 1992.



- 17 -
2.10         According to the agreements signed with the account users, the
users will repay by the end of 1993. But the repayment rate of the account is
low because of the financial constraints of the users. SEdC will hasten the
account users to repay in the designated time and speed up the turnover of the
account serving the institutions which have completed their World Bank
projects, including the institutions of University Development Project II and
Provincial Universities Project as envisaged in the agreements mentioned
above.
2.11         In general, the use of the maintenance account has replenished in
timely fashion the spare parts and accessories for the credit-purchased
equipment, raised the utilization rate of the equipment and prolonged the life
of the previously procured equipment. As a result, both the institutions and
the implementing agencies value highly the proposal and the implementation of
the program which has basically met the objectives of the Account.
2.12         Civil Works.  The total amount of actually completed civil works
exceeded the appraisal estimate, but progress of construction was uneven among
individual institutions. Construction for the polytechnic component had been
completed nearly twice as the original plan, while the TVUs just fairly
achieved their target envisaged at appraisal in general. The worst case is
CRTVU that has not yet completed its main building. However, many
institutions, including CRTVU, had built or rented buildings as temporary
arrangement to start and facilitate project implementation and routine
operation. All civil works under the project were financed with domestic
counterpart funds, and many institutions would further construct necessary
buildings after project completion.
2.13         Eguipment Procurement.  Equipment procurement, mainly through
international competitive bidding (ICB), was contracted with the International
Tendering Company (ITC) of the China National Technical Import and Export
Corporation (CNTIEC) by the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of SEdM,
and assisted by experienced specialists and faculties from some key project
universities. Procurement went quite smoothly. According to the results of
acceptance tests, about 96% of the ordered and received equipment were in good
or fair status at arrival, and over 83% were of advanced technical level.
There are some general complaints and arguments against the computers
purchased for CRTVU and the PTVUs. Careful study of the question undertaken
by FILO of SEdC reached a conclusion that selection of the types of computers
through ICB in 1984 should not bear the blame for the current situation.
Success of the Sichuan TVU and a few other TVUs in developing devices of
software programs suitable to their use in administration as well as training
had proved the resolution of the problem. The remaining question is to
disseminate the devices. The other PTVUs may devise alternatives under the
enlightenment from the forert ners; or otherwise, they should just follow
them. Retaining the equipment unused is not a resolution. For CRTVU, the
main point is in the procurement list, a fault in project design. The size of
the computer for CRTVU was defined too large for the envisaged use. The
solution to the problem is to replace it with an appropriate one, and transfer
it to an appropriate user.



- 18 -
2.14         utilization of Equipment.  The majority of the equipment
purchased under the Project are in regular use. The computers purchased for
CRTVU and PTVUs have not been fully utilized for reasons as described in the
previous paragraph. Some of the laboratory equipment have to be transferred
elsewhere. This is not due to faulty procurement but a result of improper
design. Some of the eq'tipment for certain polytechnic universities,
particularly the sophisticated analytical instruments for chemistry or
chemical engineering laboratories, have been only about half used, because the
subject envisaged has been dropped from the teaching program. As to the TV
program production equipment, utilization rates at CRTVU are fairly high, and
about 50% of the equipment are in regular use at the PTVUs. About 30% are
used up to 10 hours a week. In view of the complex nature of the case, it is
difficult to set a nationally uniform standard for evaluation of conditions
and this should be assessed in relation to the variation of conditions and
policies for TVU education from time to time and across provinces. In
general, however, the utilization rates have to be further raised.
2.15         Specialist Services.  There is a difference of views in project
evaluation on the value of the visits and workshops by the foreign specialists
under the Project. Some project institutions found some workshops or visits
of little or even no use to their staff, while the others have opposite
comments. Certain institutions, such as the Shaanxi TVU and the Shaanxi
College of Industrial and Business Management, reported in writing that the
workshops are somewhat useless, but confirmed in queries that they are quite
useful and welcomed. From the Borrower's perspective, the recommendation of
involving more Chinese specialists in the technical assistance programmes for
future projects is valuable, and it should also be noted that negating
everything of the visits and workshops is unfair. The specialists from NHK of
Japan had collaborated with staff of CRTVU very successfully in producing a
complete set of software packages for TV training, which had proved very
effective in seminars.
2.16         Evaluation and  Planning.  This component of the Project was
implemented under rather difficult conditions, as no existing unit related to
the Project had previous experience of implementing such a programme. As the
first phase of evaluation, MOE (later, SEdC) entrusted CRTVU and the newly
organized Association of Chinese Polytechnic Universities with the task of
carrying out tracer studies to the graduates of the TVUs and the polytechnic
universities, respectively. Assisted by the IAP/CRC and some professional
foreign specialists, the studies were conducted smoothly and successfully.
These are the first of such experimental endeavour in education evaluation in
China. The studies not only were very helpful for evaluation of the impact of
the Project, but also provided valuable experiences for the future educational
undertakings. In view of the complexity of the planning that is closely
related to the overall programme of the national plan of educational
development (and in turn to the plan of national economy and social
development), it should be carefully studied and coordinated by SEdC with
cooperation of the related ministries of the central government. The
Department of Audio-visual Education, the Department of Vocational and
Technical Education and FILO of SEdC had been designated as responsible for
the component during the implementation period. The outcome of the component



- 19 -
has been less encouraging as envisioned at appraisal even though it achieved
some initial progress.
2.17         Results of the Project.  A brief comprehensive description of the
general achievements of the Project has been presented in Part I and Annex 1
of this report. While recognizing it with pleasure, the Borrower has also
noted the evidence of variances among the institutions and the differences
between a number of target indicators set at appraisal and the actual results
of them at project completion. The former reflects the diverse background,
including the quality of staff, among the provinces and institutions, and the
latter is due to various reasons. At the time of project appraisal, the
reform of economy as well as education in China was .ust in the preliminary
stage of development, with many policies and actions subject to adjustment
and perfecting through pilot programmes. Consequently, the newly established
education systems and project institutions were set up to adapt readily to
changing social, educational and economic requirements. Therefore,
evaluations should stress the extent to which the institutions on the one hand
adapt to these changing needs and meet the project objectives on the other,
rather than simply looking at the original indicators formulated eight years
ago. Besides, some of the indicators are difficult to quantify accurately, or
to certain extent useless for evaluation of the project impact. The most
notable achievements of the TVUs have been in serving a wider range and larger
number of students than envisaged at appraisal, and almost all the 17
polytechnic universities deserve credit for setting new standards of quality,
to be emulated by the polytechnic universities that were established
afterwards. The project in general has successfully supported the newly
established polytechnic universities, which are different from conventional
universities and strengthened a countrywide TV education network, which is
very unique and could be the largest of its kind in the world. Assessing the
significant impact of such a project in China is by no means confined to just
the scope of the project itself.
2.18         Project Sustainability.  The significant development of the
polytechnic and the TVU education systems in the past decade strongly supports
the prospective demand for them in the future. While the Government will
further develop this kind of post-secondary education mainly on its own
efforts, any reasonable external assistance from abroad, especially that of
the World Bank, will be welcomed.  With respec.t to the relationship between
the central and the local governments, the previous experiences had proved
that coordinated decentralization of the management function is somewhat an
appropriate way which should enhance the initiatives of the local governments
and the institutions in the undertakings. The central government, however,
should reserve the necessary right of decision of central policy matter,
rea'llocation of available resources and provide guidelines and coordination of
actions, as granted by the Constitution and approved by the National People's
Congress. This should not cause inextricable contradictions in the future
development. The question would not be to what extent they "can" do, but to
what extent they "have to" do.



- 20 -
C. Bank Performance
2.19         The Bank and its staff had played important roles in the
conceptualization, identification and implementation of the Project,
particularly the polytechnic component. They supported the concept of
establishing a new type of post-secondary education sub-sector in China, and
introduced the experiences of similar institutions in foreign countries as
they understood, and helped to organize two teams of study tour to some
industrial countries. When the government proposed to include the TVUs into
the Project, the Bank quickly made positive response and sent their
specialists of distance education to join the appraisal mission. These had
enriched the Chinese staff's understanding of the new education systems and
reduced the difficulties in project preparation. Turning to the assessment of
Bank's supervision during project implementation, there should be careful
attention to note that both Bank and Borrower might see things from different
perspectives. While recognizing that supervision might be a weakness of Bank
performance, the Borrower has to confirm with appreciation that the
supervision missions had made great contributicns to discovering some major
problems that would have affected the progress of the Project, and had made
great efforts to help bring about improvement of the situation through
adjustment of related aspects of the project, as mentioned in paragraphs 2.5,
2.6 and 2.7 of this report. Furthermore, the possible reason for the weakness
of the project supervision appears to be the frequent replacement of the
mission members that prevented regular staff continuity in supervision and
weakened the familiarity with the project. This might be a lesson that should
be learned.
D. Borrower Performance
2.20         As indicated in previous paragraphs, almost all participants of
the Project lacked experience in dealing with both the new types of post-
secondary education and World Bank-financed projects. During its life, the
Project suffered from frequent changes of conditions and policies that
affected its evolution and implementation. Thanks to the diligence and
efforts of the participants, a series of difficulties had been overcome and
the achievements of the Project as a whole had exceeded the expectations
envisaged at appraisal. This also proved that the projecc and the new TVU and
polytechnic system were in general satisfactory to students and society, and
hence were supported by them. The major shortcomings of the Project briefed
in the previous paragraphs manifest in various extent the weakness in the
Borrower's performance. They are delay of some civil works, under-utilization
of some facilities and equipment, shortfall in overseas fellowships, negative
comments of some institutions on the specialist visits and workshops,
reallocation of credit funds, and problems in the evaluation and planning
component of the Project. The key problem appears to be the project
management. The quality of management in most organizations and institutions
was recognized as too low at appraisal, especially in view of the newness of
the TVU and the polytechnic systems. It had been set as one of the project
objectives to help improve the quality of management through a series of
measures. The level of management in most institutions had been significantly
enhanced by the project, but still not to the extent envisaged at appraisal.



- 21 -
In order to sustain and enlarge the project impact, more attention should be
paid to further improvement of management as well as policy coordination.



- 22 -
PART 111.    PROJE            PROFILE
Table 1: Related IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
Loan/Credit          Year of
Project Title   Approval                  Purpose of Project                    Status           Managed by:
Univ. Dov. ProJ.      1981          Mhe project sought to strengthea            Cocpleted          SEdC
(Li 2021-CA,                        science   engineering in Chinese 28           1987
Cr 1167-G)                         leading Univer.tties. Objectives were
to increase the quality & quantity of
8raduates t research, to Strengthen the
plning I management capabilities 1 to
prepare investments in the eoduction
sector.
Agric. Educ. 8        1983          The project was designed to *ssist           Completed 1988    ministry of
Research                            agriculture higher education and                               Agriculture. Animal
(Cr 1297-CEA)                       research in 11 agricultural colleg8. Jusbandry & PLshery
and 7 institutions.
Rural he-lth &        1984          The educational Component of this           Completed 1989    Ministry qf PubiLc
Medicl Edue.                        project wa designed to enhane the                              Health
(Cr. 1472-C3A)                      quality of education 4 training.
Second Agricultural  1984           The project sought to Improve & assist      CoMpleted 1991    Minlstry of
Iduc. Project                       agriculture educatton ln 23                                    Agriculture, Animl
(Lu 2444-CHA)                       agricultural ooll*ges, 12 agricultural                         Husbandry & Fishery
techniatl schools.
S2eond Untivrsity     1985          To iacrese China's high level of            Completed 1989    SdC
Dev. Project                        technical & managerial through policy a
(Cr 1551-CIA)                       institutional changes related to the
engineering and economicsiftn nce
education subsector.
Provincial Univer-   1986           To expand enrollment & improve the          Completed 1991    SdC
atties Project                      quality & management of higher
(Cr 1671-CIA)                       education programs In 60 provincial
Universities.
Gansu Provtncial      1988          It is part of a comprehensive plan to        To be completed   Censu Provincial
Dev. Project                        attain universal nine-year basic                 in 1993       Coveraeent
(Ln 2812-ChA,                       education and to improve the quality of
Cr 1793-CIA)                        nsteruction tn prarY and lover
secondary schools in Gansu Prvince.
Teacher Training      1989          To promote universal basic educatton        To be completed   SEdC
Project                             through the e*pension. and upgrading of         in 1994
(Cr 1908-CIA)                       in-service training for lower secondary
school teachers.
Textbook Dev. Proj.  1989           The project supports the textbooks          To be copleted  SdC
(Cr 2006-CIA)                       upgrading program by tbe Chinese                in 1995
GoverMent. Objectives are to improev
the educational quality of textbooks at
all levels of schooling, to inorease
the variety of available textbooks & to
improv the efficiency of textbook
production.



- 23 -
Vocational &          1990          To improve the quality of technical &        To be completed   SEdC
Technical Educ.                     vocational training in China through             in 1995
Proj. (Cr 2114-CRA)                 supporting 59 secondary vlt schools in
10 provinces and 3 municipalitles.
Mediumi-SLzed Cities   1990         The project assists the Changzbou,           To be completed   Municipalitles of
Dev. Project                        Luoyang and Shashi cities to improve             in 1995        Changazhou. Luoyang
(Ln 3286-CHA)                       overall and sector planning and                                 and Shashi.
management, including education.
Key Studies Dev.      1991          The project supports the government's        To be completed   SEdC
Proj. (Cr 2210-CHA)                 plan to reform the management of                 in 1995
science & technology programs. It
consists of support for research &
graduate training in 133 State Key
Laboratories and Special Labs
affiliated with Universities and with
Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Education Dev. in     1992          The project supports three main goals        To be completed   SEdC
Poor Provinces                      for the development of education in             in 1996
ProJ.                               relatively poor provinces - Shanxi,
(Cr 2339-CiA)                       Shaanxi, Hubei, Hunan, Cuishou and
Yunnan.



- 24 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                            Planned Date     Revised Date      Actual Date
Identification ^/
Preparation Mission                  8/82          10-11/82          10-11/82
Appraisal Mission                    1/83              -               01/83
Credit Negotiations               7/11-15/83           -            7/11-15/83
Board Approval                      9/83                                9/83
Credit Signature                   10/83                               10/83
Credit Effectiveness                1/84               ,                1/84
Credit Closing                     12/31/89         12/31/90         10/31/92
Project Completion                 12/31/88         6/30/92          06/30/92
a/      There was no formal identification mission.  Initial preparation work
was conducted during the appraisal and post-appraisal missions for the
Agricultural Education and Research Project which were undertaken in
10-11/81 and 3/82, respectively. An initiating project brief was
prepared in 2/82.



- 25 -
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank FY        1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Appraisal Estimate        4.4    12.9   21.4   42.6   63.8   85.0    -
Actual                    0.0     1.4   50.1   60.8   61.6   73.6   75.9   76.1   91.3
Actual as % of Estimate   -       11    234    143    97      87     89      90    107
Date of Final
Disbursement           10/30/92



- 26 -
Table 4: Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components
Appraisal
Project ComDonents                      Estimate ^/              Actual
Polytechnic System                       12/31/88                6/30/90
Television University System             12/31/88                6/30/90
Evaluation and Planning                  12/31/88                6/30/90
Equipment Maintenance Account A/             -                   6/30/92
a/   Established in April 1990 with approval of the Executive Directors of the
Association and amendment to the DCA.



- 27 -
Table-5: Project Costs
(US$ million)
An,raisal Estimate                        Actual
Local      Foreign                Local        Foreign
Category     Costs   Exchange Costs   Total   Costs       Exc. Costs   Total
Civil Works    48.2          0          48.2    87.8           0          87.8
Furniture       2.3          0           2.3      3.1          0           3.1
Laboratory
Equipment     33.8         13.7        47.5    11.6          28.9        40.5
Production
Equipment      2.3         17.1        19.4      5.3         20.2        25.5
Tranmissions
Equipment      6.7          7.2        13.9      2.8          8.5        11.3
Computers         0          5.4         5.4      2.7          9.0        11.7
Audiovisual
Equipment
and Books      0.6         10.2        10.8      9.5          2.4        11.9
Specialists     0.4          1.1         1.5      0.1          2.3         2.4
Fellowships"    2.7         6.7          9.4     0.5           3.6        4.1
Evaluation,
planning and
preparation
of future
projects                    5.0         5.0
Contingencies  21.7         18.5        40.2      3.7                      3.7
Maintenance
Account                                          17.2        17.2
TOTAL       118.7         84.9       203.6   127.1          92.1        219
Comment: (a) Includes foreign exchange costs disbursed for preparation of future
projects (study tours).



- 28 -
Table 6: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(in SDRs)
Original          Revised              Actual
Category                Allocation         Allocation        Disbursements
(1) Equipment           59,100,000         60,100,000          57,787,536
(2) Equipment                              13,000,000          13,369,756
Maintenance Account
(3) Specialist services
and study tours      5,500,000          2,100,000           2,071,849
(4) Overseas
fellowships          9,600,000          2,800,000           2,776,714
(5) Books and
instructional
materials            1,900,000          1,600,000            1,630,715
(6) Initial deposit in
special account to
prefinance items
under Category (4)
above                  800,000               ---                 ---
(6) Unallocated          2,700,000               ---
Total        79,600,000         79,600,000          77,636,570



- 29 -
Table 7: Project Indicators A/
Appraisal             Actual
Indicators                                    Target           (as of end 1989)
Polytechnic System
All system enrollment
Regular students                          35,000               26,293
In-service training                       10,000+              18,303
Total                                   45,000+              44,596
Regular student first-year
enrollment as a % of urban
area upper secondary school graduates
the year before                                5%                 n.a.
Fee as % of GNP per capita                     <8%                  n.a.
Number of specialization per
polytechnic                                    6-12              7-47
Number of specialization with
enrollment under 80 per year
of study                                      None               Some
Polytechnics with regular student
enrollment under 3,000                         Few               Some
Number of specializations
which do not start student
groups each school year                       None               Some
Student enrollment per teacher                    15                13
Less than fully trained teachers
Number                                        None               Some
%                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~0%
Number of fully trained technicians           1,600-2,000           1,046
Number of trained administrators                250-300
Academic, lab & library space
per student
Mostly academic programs                  6-10 sq m             n.a.
Mostly technical programs                12-15 sq m             n.a.
Ratio of site area to constructed
area                                      0.2-1.2               n.a.
% of experiments performed out of
total required by curriculum                  80-100%            81-100%
% of students in technical fields
able to perform all experiments               90-100%            86-100%
% of teachers using audiovisual equipment          100%            15-100%
Number of library titles per student                10              22-270
Number of class periods per day                  9-10
Class periods per classroom per day              8-9
n.a. - not available



- 30 -
Tabl1 7: Project Indicators (cont'd.)
Appraisal              Actual
Indicators                                    Target           (as of end 1989)
TVU System
System enrollment
Full-time                                900,000               464,649
Part-time                                400,000               481,498 _/
Total                                 1,300,000               946,147 /
% of full-time enrollment
drawn from recent middle
school graduates                           30-40%                  n.a.
Number of courses taught only
by face-to-face method                      None                     Few
Number of courses developed
by CRTVU:
Science and engineering                    60                    n.a.
Social science and humanities             110                    n.a.
Number of courses developed by
each PTVU:
Science and engineering                    20                    n.a.
Social science and humanities              35                    n.a.
Number of fields of study
developed by CRTVU:
Science and engineering                   10-12                  n.a.
Social science and humanities             11-12                  n.a.
Number of programs produced
annually by:
CRTVU                                       700                   2,000
All major PTVUs                           1,350                    3,723
All minor PTVUs                           1,900                    3,540
% of experiments performed out
of total required by curriculum             70-90%                 45-100%
% of students able to perform
experiments                                80-100%                 70-100%
n.a. - not available
a/   Indicators were developed during appraisal.  SEdC provided initial report
on indicators in June 1990.



- 31 -
Table 8: Project Study
Purpose as
Defined at                                    Impact of
Studies            Appraisal                  Status               Study
Tracer Study       Monitor match         Studies completed   Introduced
between graduates'   for both TVU and    methodology for
employment and       polytechnic         analysis in this
field of study       graduates           area



- 32 -
Table 9: Status of Credit Covenants
Section                     Covenant                                       Status
3.01 (b)                The Borrower shall establish          In compliance.  A Polytechnic
and thereafter maintain until        Association, comprising
the Closing Date, a                  representatives from project
Polytechnic Commission.              institutions as well as other
polytechnics, has been formed.
4.01 (c) (ii)            The Borrower shall have              In compliance.  Due 6 months
accounts audited each fiscal         after end of FY; last received
year and furnished to                9/92 for FY91.
association certified copy, as
soon as available, but not
later than six months after
end of each such year.
4.03 (a)                The Borrower shall, until             Reports for 1988 received in
December 30, 1990, monitor and       4/89; final report provided to
evaluate the progress made by        the Bank in 8/90.
Project Institutions toward
project objectives in light of
project indicators and
targets.
4.03 (b)                The Borrower shall establish          Units within SEdC (Bureaus of
and thereafter maintain until        Technical/Vocational Education
December 31, 1990, a planning        and Audio-Visual Education)
and evaluation unit within           have been designated to carry
MOE* and a research and              out the responsibilities.
evaluation unit in the CRTVU.        However, these units have had
relatively little direct
involvement in project
implementation monitoring and
evaluation.
4.03 (c)                 The Borrower shall cause:  Mi)       Studies successfully
the Project Polytechnics to          completed.
carry out annual surveys and
(ii) the Project TVUs to carry
out periodic sample surveys of
their graduates.
* now the SEdC



- 33 -
TablegJ0: Staff Inputs by Stage of project Cycle
(staff weeks)
Stage of                   Planned           Revised            Final
Project Cycle                            (HQ and Field)
Through Appraisal            51.7                                51.7
Appraisal                    29.8                                29.8
Board Approval
Board Approval               10.0                                10.0
Effectiveness
Supervision                  96.0 A/                             98.0
TOTAL
a/   Estimated using standard coefficient of 12.0 staff weeks per fiscal year
from project effectiveness through expected completion date of 6/30/91.
It was not uncommon, however, during the early 1980s to reach 20-25 staff
weeks per year.



- 34 -
Table 11: Mission Data by Stages of Project
Stage of                                             Staff Weeks    Performance
Project         Month/  No. of    Specification          in           Rating
Cycle           Year    Persons   Represented a/    Field /           Status P/
Preparation    10-11/82    9      (A, E, ET, GE,        36.0
MMS, TEd,TEn) _/
Appraisal       1-2/83      5     (A, E, GE, GE,
OA)                 15.0
Post-Appraisal    4/83      2     (E, GE)               _.
Total                                             53.0
G   P  M    F
Supervision I   9-10/83    2      (E, GE)                 1.0      1   1   1   1
Supervision II     1/84    1      (MMS)                   1.0      1   1   1   1
Supervision III  8-9/84    3      (GE,GE,GE)              2.0      1   1   1   1
Supervision IV   2-3/85    4      (E, GE, GE, TE)         4.0    n/a n/a n/a n/a
Supervision V    4-5/85    1      (E)                     1.0      1   1   1   1
Supervision VI    10/85    1      (GE)                     .5   n/a n/a n/a n/a
Supervision VII    3/86    2      (GE, TE)                3.0      1   1   1   1
Supervision VIII   7/87    1      ( E )                   1.0      1   1   1   1
Supervision IX     7/88    3      (E, GE, TE)             3.0      1   1   1   1
Supervision X      4/89    2      (E, TE)                 4.0
Total                                     18.0
PCR              3-4/90    3      (E, GE, OA)             4.5      2   1   1   1
a/ A - Architect; E - Economist; ET - Educational Technologist; GE - General
Educator; MMS - Mass Media Specialist; OA - Operations Assistant;
TEd - Technical
b/ Data from supervision summaries and back-to-offfice reports.
S/ G - General Status; P - Procurement; K - Management; F - Financial
4/ Secretary



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
CHINA
POLYTECHNIC/TELEVISION UNIVERSITY PROJECT
(Credit 1411-CHA)
Evaluation Renort of the International Advisory ganel
and Chinese Review Commission
Executive Summary
1.          In our opinion, based on the evidence available to us, the US$85
million credit from the World Bank to the People's Republic of China for
developing the television universities (TVUs) and new polytechnics has had a
very significant and beneficial impact.
2.          It has stimulated investment of a further large sum, probably
exceeding RMB500 million, in local currency. Within the life of the project,
benefits foreseen and unforeseen in 1983 have exceeded reasonable
expectations, and these benefits are likely to continue.
3.          The TVUs make up a unique countrywide system in 28 provinces, with
a national course production and examination-setting center in Beijing. They
benefitted through: a) a large construction program which provided studios,
office buildings, classrooms and laboratories; b) provision of a considerable
amount of imported and domestic equipment, including transmitters, AV
production and duplication equipment, computers for management and teaching,
and laboratory equipment; c) increase in staff, and d) extensive training for
their staff, in China and abroad. They have been expanded, and in most
respects modernized as well.
4.          The 17 polytechnics, new because they were among the first to be
set up in China in the early 1980s, differ from conventional Chinese post-
secondary vocational institutions because they are normally non-residential,
charge tuition fees and do not guarantee jobs for their graduates. They
benefitted in the same ways as the TVUs, except that money was not provided
for TV or radio program production, or for broadcast-related buildings and
equipment.
5.          We attempted to measure the impact of the credit on the TVUs.  We
are clear that their achievements would have been far less without the loan,
and can say with reasonable certainty that during the project (1983-89) they
have produced:
* Over a million good quality adult graduates at the vocational college
diploma level.



36 -
Page 2 of 7
* Nearly another million adult certificate holders at the same level.
* Several tens of thousands of adult certificate holders at the
vocational secondary level.
* About two million adult certificate holders who have followed a
continuing education course related to their jobs.
* Several million young people and adults who have learned from the
broadcasts and textbooks without being registered for courses or
taking examinations.
6.          The impact of the credit on the 17 polytechnics is less dramatic,
because they have much smaller student numbers, but no less significant. They
have improved, to a greater extent than have the TVUs, their management, their
facilities and the quality of the courses and teaching they provide. Almost
without exception, they are now models for other new polytechnics to emulate.
During the project they have also produced:
* Tens of thousands of good quality graduates at the vocational college
diploma level.
* Thousands of adult certificate holders who have taken short in-
service training courses.
* Tens of thousands of adult self-study students.
7.          Our recommendations are aimed at further developing, improving and
expanding the TVUs and polytechnics, and at solving problems that prevent them
from becoming fully modernized.
Recommendations: Television Universities
* To ensure a good working environment, TVUs should allocate or obtain
funds for, and undertake each year, regularly scheduled maintenance
of buildings, including studios, on the basis of detailed surveys of
what is required and under the supervision of managers with the
authority to control the work and train staff to do it.
* To improve efficiency and quality of program production, the Central
Radio and Television University (CRTVU) and any provincial TVUs
(PTVUs) still designing studios should consider the full potential of
modern production equipment paid for from loan funds, and modify
their designs accordingly.
* To improve the effectiveness of its operations, CRTVU should complete
as soon as possible its new headquarters, including new studios.



- 37 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
* To avoid serious interruption of transmissions of TVU programs,
provincial education commissions (PECs) should negotiate with
provincial governments and broadcasting authorities regarding supply
of spare parts and/or standby transmitters for channels serving TVU
students.
* To increase-efficiency, the Bureau of Audio-Visual Education (BAVE)
and PECs should take appropriate measures, with broadcasting
authorities (central, provincial and, if necessary, municipal), to
obtain increased airtime for and distribution of TVU programs, within
national guidelines, and according to an integrated strategy,
developed by each PTVU, involving as appropriate use of satellites,
terrestrial transmitters, microwave links and videocassette
distribution.
* To ensure availability and increase use of project equipment other
than computers, TVUs should keep records of equipment use, breakdowns
and repairs, and PECs should provide funds for repairs and
replacements, and for additional equipment needed, and should permit
TVUs to exchange items not being used.
3 To speed up computerization for management, and assuming that SEdC
cannot obtain the Unix operating system for Astras, TVUs not using
their Astra computers should dispose of them with the assistance of
PECs, and acquire suitable microcomputers instead.
e To improve use of Astra computers and microcomputers in TVUs that
have succeeded in operating them, SEdC should obtain the Unix
operating system for Astras and BAVE should encourage these TVUs to
exchange software they have developed for management or teaching.
* To increase use of laboratory equipment supplied to it, CRTVU should
select items required for TV program production, and request the
State Education Commission (SEdC) to transfer all the remaining
equipment to other institutions able to use it well.
* To plan development of new courses aimed at meeting provincial needs,
and to discuss revisions or dropping of existing courses, PTVUs
should set up, and hold regular meetings of, advisory committees
consisting of representatives of industrial, commercial and other
enterprises, plus TVU administrative and teaching staff, and
professional education experts.
* To enable PTVUs to exchange their courses more easily, CRTVU should
hold computerized data, regularly updated with the help of the PTVUs,
on all these courses, and should publish the list once a year,
preferably during the annual competition for best audio-visual
programs.



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
* To ensure that proper records of student registrations of all kinds
are maintained for policy and management purposes, CRTVU and all
PTVUs should collaborate, under the guidance of BAVE, in completing
urgently a nationally standardized system of student records based on
the same microcomputer hardware and software standards, and should
maintain this system with diligence and accuracy.
* To increase effectiveness of the tutorial system in TVU classes,
branch-TVUs and work stations should increase the number of TVU
graduates they appoint as tutors.
* To improve teamwork in TVU studios and add to the professional
standing of TV and radio program directors (bian dao), SEdC and TVUs
should recognize this category and title.
* To improve management of the TVUs, BAVE should organize in-service
retraining for TVU managers, among them presidents, vice-presidents,
deans and provincial and local officials responsible for TVUs, to
include topics such as policy, planning, budgeting and computerized
management systems.
* To foster individual staff development and encourage effective use of
innovations, TVUs should plan, obtain funds for and carry out regular
evaluation and in-service training, in China and/or overseas, for all
categories of their staff.
- To speed up modernization in China, and increase efficiency and
educational opportunity, BAVEs and PECs should authorize TVUs to
increase each year registrations of students in all groups they
serve.
* To speed up modernization in China, and increase efficiency and
educational oppcrtunity, BAVEs and PECs should authorize TVUs to
increase each year registrations of students in all groups they
serve.
* To ensure continued operation of imported TVU equipment, SEdC should
establish a revolving fund and a national center for spare parts and
computer updates.
* To ensure that the nature of the TVUs is better understood and
appreciated by officials at central, provincial and municipal levels,
CRTVU should, under the guidance of BAVE, set up a unit with the task
of publishing and distributing to all concerned a regular newsletter
or newssheet publicizing details of the system, including a standard
list of terms used.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
* To increase cooperation between TVUs, BAVE and PEGs should support
and encourage the formation of a Television Universities'
Association, with sub-groups for staff such as TV programme
directors, computer managers, etc.
* To maximize use of resources provided by the World Bank credit, TVUs
should collaborate wherever possible with the polytechnics, by means
such as making available videos and other teaching material of use to
the polytechnics.
Recommendations: Polytechnics
* To ensure a good working environment polytechnics should allocate or
obtain funds for, and undertake each year, regularly scheduled
maintenance of buildings, including s_cudios, on the basis of detailed
surveys of what is required and une r the supervision of managers
with the authority to control the iork and train jtaff to do it.
* To ensure availability and increase use of project equipment other
than computers, polytechnics should keep records of equipment use,
breakdowns and repairs, and PECs and/or municipal education
commissions (MECs) that guide them should provide funds for repairs
and replacements, and for additional equipment needed, and should
permit polytechnics to exchange items not being used.
* To ensure greater use of science laboratories, computer centers and
language laboratories in the mornings, polytechnics should make
opportunities available for students to do practical work throughout
the teaching day.
* To increase use of Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) computers and
microcomputers, the Bureau of Vocational and Technical Education
(BVTE) should encourage polytechnics to exchange software they have
developed for management and teaching.
* To increase access for teachers and students to books and other
items, polytechnic librarians should hold most of these on open
shelves.
* To increase collaboration between polytechnic librarians, they should
participate in the newly-formed Polytechnic Librarians' Association.
* To ensure that polytechnics continue to be vocational-oriented
institutions offering diplomas requiring 2-3 years of study, BVTE
should rule that where 4-year courses are introduced, these should
not exceed 10 percent of all courses offered.



- 40 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
* To increase students' acquisition of practical skills, polytechnics
should design "sandwich" courses that include attachment to
appropriate industrial and commercial enterprises for up to a third
of the time, preferably in the middle, and SEdC should re-emphasize,
if necessary, through local government, the need for proper financial
arrangements between polytechnics and enterprises agreeing to these
attachments, and for later allocation of graduates to take the
attachments into account.
* To plan development of new courses aimed at meeting provincial needs,
and to discuss revisions or dropping of existing courses,
polytechnics should set up, and hold regular meetings of, advisory
committees consisting of representatives of indu trial, commercial
and other enterprises, plus polytechnics' administrative and teaching
staff, and professional education experts.
* To improve the employability and adaptability of their graduates,
polytechnics should help all students to acquire foreign language and
self-study skills, and become computer literate.
* To increase efficiency and improve their teacher:student ratios,
polytechnics should either hold teaching staff numbers at present
levels and increase their numbers of student full-time equivalents
(FTEs), for example, by increasing numbers of student taking in-
service courses, or, if FTEs cannot be increased, avoid replacing
teaching staff who leave or retire.
* To ensure that students receive up-to-date teaching, polytechnics
should consider, and adopt where appropriate, new textbooks for all
their courses, bearing in mind the needs of local enterprises and
their technological development, and current practice.
* To improve management of the polytechnics, BVTE should organize in-
service retraining for polytechnic managers, among them presidents,
vice-presidents, deans and provincial and/or local officials
responsible for polytechnics, to include topics such as policy,
planning, budgeting and computerized management systems.
* To foster individual staff development and encourage effective use of
innovations, polytechnics should plan, obtain funds for and carry out
regular evaluation and in-service training, in China and/or overseas,
for all categories for their staff.
* To speed up modernization in China and increase efficiency and
educational opportunity in polytechnics, the State, provincial and
municipal education commissions that guide them should consider
increasing the numbers of students in existing polytechnics, rather
than the creation of new ones.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
* To ensure continued operation of imported equipment in project
institutions, SEdC should establish a revolving fund and a national
center for spare parts and computer updates.
* To increase collaboration among polytechnics, the State, provincial
and municipal education commissions that guide them should encourage
and support the polytechnics in participating in an association, with
sub-groups for staff such as deans, departmental heads, computer and
research personnel.
* To maximize use of resources provided by the World Bank credit,
polytechnics should collaborate wherever possible with TVUs, by means
such as making available to TVUs their facilitie., including
laboratories, libraries, language laboratories and computer centers.



- 42 -
Annex_2
CHIN
POLYTECHNIC TELEVISIQON  UNIvESM  PROJECT
(Credit 1411-CHA)
Participants in Final Evaluation Visit
March/Aril 1290
International Advisory Panel                   Chinese Review Commission
Prof. David Hawkridge, Chairperson             Prof. Chen Jiaerh, Chairperson
Mr. Shigenari Futagami, Vice Chairman          Ms. Gao Liming, Secretary
Dr. Normal Watson, Vice Chairman
British Council                                Statg Education Cgmmission
Mr. Sandy Edington, Media Advisor              Mr. Zhu Guozhang, Advisor, SEdC
Dr. Julian Edwards, Technical                  Mr. Wang Yuanren, Deputy Director
Education Advisor                              Foreign Investment & Loan Officer
Mr. Leslie Jeary, Project Officer              Mr. Fan Longxian, Chief, Project
Division, FILO
Mr. Ye Zhongshan, Official, Technical
Assistance Division, FILO
World Bank
Ms. Terrice Bassler, Operations Analyst
Ms. Himelda Martinez, Senior Education Specialist



