OFFICAL
LOCUNTS      REDIT NUMBER 1411 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Polytechnic and Television University Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    C)               / 7        1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1411 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated LDr       -A      /                 , 1983,
between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(b) "Project Polytechnics", "CRTVU"     and  "Project TVUs"
mean the institutions listed in Parts I, II.A and II.B, respec-
tively, of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and "Project Institu-
tions" means the Project Polytechnics, CRTVU and the Project
TVUs, collectively; and
(c) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section- 2.02      (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to seventy-nine million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 79,600,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a special account in the
Bank of China on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with        the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Bdrrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably   request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-3-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March I
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1994, and ending September 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. -The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, educational, engineering and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter main-
tain until the Closing Date, a Polytechnic Commission, including
representatives from the Project Polytechnics, with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association, such experts to be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿-4-
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevart
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all stich information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Pre je     , but in any
event not later than six months after the ClosL.      Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution avd
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the betefit


﻿-5-
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action. as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without   limitation  to  the  foregoing, the    Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain., until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have


﻿-6-
reasonably requested, including without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the facilities and
equipment provided under the Project to be operated, maintained,
reneved and repaired in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and educational policies and practices,
and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
sufficient funds, services and other resources required for such
purposes.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, until December 31,
1990, or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, monitor and evaluate from time to time the
progress made by Project Institutions towards project objectives
in light of project indicators and targets agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause: (i) the Project Polytechnics
to carry out annual surveys and (ii) the Project TVUs to carry,
out periodic sample surveys,, of their graduates to determine,
inter alia, the relationship between academic specialization and
actual employment, commencing with the graduates in 1984 and
ending with the graduates in 1990, or such later date as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(c) In order -to assist in carrying out Part C of the
Project and the monitoring and evaluation responsibilities under
paragraphs (a) and    (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall
establish, and thereafter maintain until December 31, 1990, in
MOE, a unit for the evaluation and planning for polytechnics, and
in CRTVU, a unit for the research and evaluation for TVUs, both
with competent staff in adequate numbers, and with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿-7-
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this
Agreement; and
(b) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date                   Iff/ ,  - is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section       2.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of theBorrover; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designa7ted as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANMIN                             22486 MFPRC
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment                59,100,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(invoiced cost)
(2)  Specialist               5,500,000          100%
services and
study tours
(3) Overseas                  9,600,000          100%
fellowships
(4) Books and in-             1,900,000          100% of foreign
structional                                 expenditures
materials
(5)  Initial deposit in         800,000          Amount due pur-
Special Account                             suant to Section
to prefinance                               2.02 (b) of this
items under                                 Agreement
Category (3)
above
(6) Unallocated               2,700,000
TOTAL              79,600,000
77


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the pblicy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures             -
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 11 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ci3tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures  which  would   otherwise  have  been   eligible  for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in increasing
the quantity of, and improving the quality of instruction for,
students in its polytechnic and television university systems of
post-secondary education.   The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Polytechnic System
Assisting the development of the Borrower's polytechnic
system and related policies, such as increased utilization of
non-residential    facilities,   increased   student   choice   in
employment and levying of student fees, by means of:
1.   Expanding enrollment capacity at the Project Polytechnics
through construction and rehabilitation of libraries, laborator-
ies and classrooms-
2.   Improving   the  quality   of  instruction  at   the  Project
Polytechnics through:
(a) provision of educational equipment (including labora-
tory, language laboratory and audiovisual equipment and com-
puters), books and teaching materials; and
(b)  implementation of. a program of curriculum and staff
development, including training seminars, fellowships, and local
and overseas study tours for teaching staff.
3.   Improving the management of resources at the Project Poly-
technics through implementation of a staff development program
for administrative staff, including the provision of short-term
local and overseas training and expert services.
I
Part B:   Television University System
1.   Expanding coverage and increasing enrollment for the tele-
vision university system through:
(a) production by the CRTVU of additional courses in TV
broadcasts and in other media;


﻿-13-
(b) construction, establishment and equipping of nine Ultra
High Frequency (UHF) transmission stations at Beijing, Guangzhou,
Wuhan, Nanjing, Shenyang, Xian, Shanghai, Chengdu and Tianjin;
and
(c) establishing a pilot program of study groups in rural
areas covered by the Project TVUs and provision and equipping of
cLassrooms for use by these study groups.
2.   Improving the quality of instruction provided for the tele-
vision university system, through:
(a) construction and equipping of a production center, a
laboratory center and a printing facility, to assist the CRTVU;
(b) construction and equipping of about 9 major and 19
minor production centers, and about 85 study centers, each
consisting of laboratory, audiovisual and classroom facilities,
all to assist the Project TVUs; and
(c) improving the professional capabilities of technical
and academic staff at the CRTVU and the Project TVUs through
provision of local training, overseas fellowships and study
tours, and specialist services.
3.   Improving the management of resources for the television
university system through provision of computer equipment and
senior staff training for the CRTVU and Project TVU staff.
Part C:   Evaluation and Planning
Improving and assisting the evaluation of current invest-
ments in the polytechnic and television university systems, and
planning and preparation of future investments in these and other
educational  systems,   through  provision  of   local  training,
overseas fellowships and study tours, specialist services and
related equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to pr.ospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the.
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding shall be grouped to the extent
possible so as to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in China
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in China
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in China equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
cu.toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
wouLd have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 16 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for items or groups of items estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000, may
be procured (a) on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines or (b) through direct purchase for
proprietary items or where required for purposes of standardiza-
tion.
2.   Books and instructional materials to be financed under Cate-
gory 4 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement may be procured under contracts negotiated with
suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿-17-
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and suc. other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost* of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Institutions
Part I.   Polytechnic System Institutions
A.   Project Polytechnics
1.   Hefei Associated College
2.   Beijing Short-term College of Economic Management
3.   Beijing Short-term College of Electrical Machinery
4.   Guangzhou Vocational College
5.   Harbin College
6.   Luoyang Vocational University
7.   Jianghan College, Wuhan
8.   Changsha Vocational University
9.   Changzhou Professional College
10.   Nanjing Jinling Vocational College
11.   Shenyang Vocational College
12.   Xian Junior College
13.   Jinan Vocational College
14.   Shanghai Industrial and Commercial Management College
15.   Chengdu College
16.   Tianjin Professional College
17.   Hangzhou Technical College
Part II. Television University (TVU) Institutions
A.   Central Radio and Television University (CRTVU), Beijing
B.   Project TVUs
1.   Anhui Provincial TVU, Hefei
2.   Beijing Municipal TVU, Beijing
3.   Fujian Provincial TVU, Fuzhou
4.   Gansu Provincial TVU, Lanzhou
,                   5.   Guangdong Provincial TVU, Guangzhou
6.   Guangxi Zhuang Regional TVU, Nanning
7.   Guizhou Provincial TVU, Guiyang
8.   Hebei Provincial TVU, Shijiazhuang
9.   Heilongjiang Provincial TVU, Harbin
10.   Henan Provincial TVU, Zhengzhou
11.   Hubei Provincial TVU, Wuhan
12.   Hunan Provincial TVU, Changsha
13.      Inner Mongolia Regional TVU, Huhhot


﻿-19-
14.   Jiangsu Provincial TVU, Nanjing
15.   Jiangxi Provincial TVU, Nanchang
16.   Jilin Provincial TVU, Jilin City
17.   Liaoning Provincial TVU, Shenyang
18.   Ningxia Hui Regional TVU, Yinchuan
19.   Qinghai Provincial TVU, Xining
20.   Shaanxi Provincial TVU, Xian
21.   Shandong Provincial TVU, Jinan
22.   Shanghai Municipal TVU, Shanghai
23.   Shanxi Provincial TVU, Taiyuan
24.   Sichuan Provincial TVU, Chengdu
25.   Tianjin Municipal TVU, Tianjin
26.   Xinjiang Regional TVU, Urumqi
27.   Yunnan Provincial TVU, Kunming
28.   Zhejiang.Provincial TVU, Hangzhou


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Category (3) in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (5) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at. the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
**            required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
'             deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Category (3), and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿-21-
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
*           5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
OL          the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the
(m.,         provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
(b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
Category (3), minus the unwithdrawn amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to items to be
financed under Category (3), shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category (3) shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, be made only after and to the extent the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
*    refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 22 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198F
FOR SECRETARY


