Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
C0.9 /G rn-923
Rlt No. P-4212-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
THIRTEENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 186.7 MILLION
(US$200 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
January 10, 1986
lla' doemmeuit h= a resbicto dlsrbudo.i sd may be ans by reciple.tb aWly in the perfoumame of
dhidr .d.ic udeds. Ift euinb ma unot sihewbe be dladmi witou Weed Bak authoiadou.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On December 22, 1985, the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 30.97 buying and Tk 31.03 selling per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (m3)                  35.25 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                  =   2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)              =   1,000 kilograms   0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                     =   1.09 yards
1 kilogram (kg)                     2.20 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                =   0.62 miLe
1 square kilometer (km2)        =   0.386 square mile
1square meter (m2)              =   10.75 square feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         -  Annual Development Program
BADC        -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BWDB        -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
ECNEC       -  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
COB         -  Covernment of Bangladesh
IMED        -  Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Division,
Ministry of Planning
o & M       -  Operation and Maintenance
PEC         -  Project Evaluation Committee
PP          -  Project Proforma
PFDS        -  Public Foodgrain Distribution System
SFYP        -  Second Five Year Plan (FY81-FY85)
TFYP        -  Third Five Year Plan (FY86-FY90)
TIP         -  Trade and Industrial Policy
WES         -  Wage Earners' Scheme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIRTEENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Table of Contents
Pa2e No.
CREDIT SUNMARY ............. ii
I.    THE ECONOMY.1.................................................... 
A.  Introduction .............          ..................................  1
B.  Overall Developments and Short-Term Outlook ....               ............  2
C.  Macro-Economic Management ..................................  3
D.  Development Planning and Policy Issues .....................  9
E.  The Need for Program Lending in Bangladesh .................. 11
F.  Relations with the INMF ..................................... 12
II.    BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH ............................ 12
III.  ID&'s IMPORT PROGRAM CREDITS ................................... 14
IV.   DEVELOPMENT POLICY AND MANAGEMENT REFORMS ...................... 16
Introduction           ................................................. 16
1.  Agricultural Sector .......            ............................... 16
A.  Agricultural Credit ............. ..            ................... 17
B.  Public Foodgrain Procurement and Distribution ........ 20
C.  Future Role of Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) ........ ..            ............. 21
D.  Fertijizer Pricing ................             ................... 22
2.  Strengthening of Economic Management Capacity .........            ... 23
A.  Budgetary Planning and Management  ........             ............ 23
1. Strengthening of Accounting and
Monitoring Capability ............................ 24
2.  Multi-Year Budget Planning ....................... 25
B.  Allocation of Resources for Operation & Maintenance .. 25
C.  Debt Recording System   .............           .................. 26
D.  Project Implementation ..............            ................. 26
E.  Public Service Management .......... .. ................ 28
V.    THE CREDIT ..................................................... 29
VI.    RECOMMENDATION ................................................. 31
ANNEX      I:  Social and Economic Indicators Data Sheets ....               .......... 33
ANNEX   II:  The Status of Bank Group Operations - Bangladesh .... .... 39
ANNEX  III:  Supplementary Credit Data ............................... 43
ANNEX   IV:  Major Features of Past Imports Program Credits ....                ...... 50
This doment has a resticted distnbution and may be used by recipients oy in the perfonmane of
thir ofid dues Its sontents may not otewie be disosed wihut Wold Bnk autboiatio



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
BANGLADESH
THIRTEENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:             SDR 186.7 million (US$200 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Purpose:            The Credit will provide foreign exchange to finance
general imports. In order to reduce Bangladesh's
dependence on concessional aid inflows, the Government has
agreed, in the context of negotiations for the proposed
Credit, to undertake policy and administrative
improvements designed to increase efficiency in
agricultural and food programs, and in its capacity for
economic management.
Estimated
Disbursements:   The proposed Credit would be available for disbursement in
two tranches: SDR 112.2 million (US$120 million
equivalent) upon Credit effectiveness and the remaining
SDR 74.5 million (US$80 million equivalent) subject to a
review of progress in implementing the policy improvements
under the Credit, meaning sound economic development
policies, including, in particular, those associated with
agricultural credit, foodgrain procurement and
distribution, fertilizer pricing and distribution,
financial planning and management and project
implementation. This review is to take place no later
than August 31, 1986. It is expected that Credit
disbursement of about US$100 million will take place in
FY86 and US$100 million in FY87.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
THIRTEENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Thirteenth Imports Program Credit (IPC-13) to the People's Republic of
Bangladesh in an amount of SDR 186.7 million (the equivalent of US$200
million), on standard IDA terms, to provide foreign exchange for financing
general imports. The credit would support the Government in implementing
policy and institutional reforms in the agricultural sector and in
strengthening its economic management capacity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A.      Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects," (IBRD Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has
been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty. Annual per capita income was about US$130 in FY85. The
economy, dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by
both natural and external factors. The ability to grow sufficient food has
been the highest priority for the country since Independence. Although
considerable progress has been made in terms of increased flood control, and
extending the availability of irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain produc-
tion remains heavily dependent on weather conditions; notwithstanding a 60%
production increase sinze FY73, foodgrain output conLinues to fall short of
domestic requirements. To meet minimum needs, the Government has to import
foodgrains financed by aid and from its own resources. The uncertainties of
foodgrain availability also make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain
stocks, the financing of which adds to the problem of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which refLect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a small part of investment (which has
averaged about 162 of CDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30Z of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods still accounting for
55- 60% of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about 15Z of GDP is
financed by workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more than 5% of CGP
in FY83 before declining markedly again during the past two years, and by
foreign assistance equivalent to about 10X of GDP per annum. The capacity to



-2-
finance imports can be severely affected by external factors that are beyond
the control of the Covernment. The effect of such adverse factors on the
economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary resources on
imports; customs duties and sales tax on imports taken together account for
about 55Z of tax revenues.
B.      Overall Developments and Short-Term Outlook
5.      During the late seventies and early eighties, despite the country's
formidable structural constraints, Bangladesh made significant progress.
Though still heavily dependent on foreign aid, the country is within reach of
food self-sufficiency by the end of the current decade; there have been
marked improvements in agricultural and food distribution policies, and in
the development of the country's energy resources, as well as a reorientation
of government policies towards a more active role of the private sector in
the economy. However, the high rates of population growth (2.6Z per annum)
and adult illiteracy (75%) continue to act as major constraints on economic
and social development.
6.      After the severe disruptions of the independence struggle and the
devastating floods in the early 1970s, output in agriculture and industry did
not recover to pre-independence levels until the mid-1970s. Large budget
deficits, inflation, rapid population growth and political instability during
the first few years of independence added to the country's plight. In the
second half of the 1970s, political and economic stabilization helped the
Government to focus more on longer-term development objectives and real
increases in aid disbursements made rising public investments possible.
Despite setbacks in crop production due to adverse weather, foodgrain produc-
tion increased by 3.5Z p.a., manufacturing output grew by 6.3% p.a. and GDP
by 5.1% p.a. between FY75 and FY80.
7.      This period of consolidation was followed by renewed and severe
economic and financial difficulties in the early 1980s. Largely due to the
sharp increase in international petroleum prices and declining jute export
prices, Bangladesh's terms of trade deteriorated by over 30% during FY81 and
FY82, and the trade deficic more than doubled to reach almost US$2.0 billion,
or 18% of GDP, in FY82. At the same time, aid inflows declined in real terms
leading to cutbacks in domestic public investment. In addition, agricultural
output fell in FY82 due to bad weather after a record harvest in FY81 and
agricultural incomes declined. As a result, GDP growth in FY82 slumped to
1.4Z.
8.      In FY83 more favorable weather conditions and increased input use led
to a 3-4% growth in agriculture and to an overall GDP growth of nearly 3%.
However, most of the non-agricultural sectors remained severely depressed,
largely due to the reduction in private disposable income as a result of the
Government's far-reaching stabilization measures introduced in the FY83
Budget. Imports declined in real terms while workers' remittances from
abroad increased sharply from US$424 million in FY82 to US$628 million in



-3-
FY83, permitting a significant accumulation of gross goLd and foreign
exchange reserves from a low of US$122 million at the end of FY82.
9.      Economic performance in FY84 and FY85 was affected by a series of
damaging floods during 1984 whose intensity was comparable to the devastating
floods of 1974. Successive rice crops were hit causing net foodgrain losses
of over 0.5 million tons. Net losses would have been much higher but for
extensive replanting of the damaged aman crop, and sizable expansion of the
dry season boro and wheat crops. This response by the farmers and the
availability of more dispersed food storage facilities, the improved
efficiency of the Public Food Distribution System and the Government's large-
scale foodgrain procurements abroad averted a famine. Despite the impact of
the floods, agricultural growth reached about 2.4% in FY84, and 3.3% in FY85.
The floods also left Bangladesh with substantially lower foreign exchange
reserves and sizable medium-term debt service requirements incurred on exter-
nal food loans. The cyclone and tidal bore disaster in May 1985 caused
extensive loss of life and property along the Southern Coast and islands of
Bangladesh, but had little effect on overall food production and economic
losses were geographically limited.
10.     On the other hand, there was in FY84 a gradual recovery in the non-
agricultural sectors. Industry, in particular, rebounded sharply from the
weak performance of the preceding year. This was due to a combination of
factors including further liberalization and privatization measures (divest-
ment of major segments of the jute and textile industries as well as
privatization of some banks) following the promulgation of GOB's New
Industrial Policy in 1982; easier access to imports during a period of less
restricted foreign exchange resources; increased output of non-traditional
industrial exports (especially ready-made garments); and increased demand
generated by a sharp expansion of private credit. Therefore, despite the
severe setbacks in agriculture, the improvements in industry still led to a
CDP growth of around 3.5Z for FY84, compared to 1.4% in FY82 and around 3Z in
FY83. In FY85, however, preliminary Government estimates would suggest that
industrial growth was only about 3% due to declines in output of jute goods,
sugar, cement and slower growth in cotton textiles, fertilizer, steel and
engineering products. On the other hand, the recovery of imports helped
growth in the trade and transport sectors, resulting in GDP growth in FY85 of
about 4%. Overall, during FY80-85 economic growth slowed down to an average
of 3.7% per annum from over 5% during FY75-80. Per capita CDP is estimated
to have increased by only around 1Z a year during the period.
C.      Macro-Economic Management
11.     Monetary Policy.  A major concern with respect to short-term economic
management has been the need to restore monetary stability and the introduc-
tion of consistent and effective monetary policy. During the two years
ending in June 1984, total liquidity (H2) increased by almost 85%, well in
excess of the growth of nominal CDP. Some of the increase was due to the
rebuilding of foreign exchange reserves from the very low level of June 1982,



-4-
but over 70Z of this expansion was attributable to growth in outstanding
private sector credit, with agricultural credits accounting for over 55Z of
the growth. In contrast, bank borrowing by the public sector was relatively
modest. Substantial refinancing of credit by Bangladesh Bank to various
sectors, especially agriculture, was one of the most important factors in
generating the rapid domestic credit expansion during FY83 and FY84. The
worsening performance in credit recovery in general, and in agriculture in
particular, also contributed to the rise in private credits outstanding. The
floods during 1984 were a significant contributing factor to that sector's
inability to repay loans as they fell due.
12.     The liquidity situation deteriorated further during the first six
months of FY85 with the growth rate of private credit expansion continuing to
increase. At the same time, public sector credit also expanded, partially in
response to urgent credit needs of public sector corporations, especially in
the jute industries sector. Total money supply grew by 35Z during the
December 1983/December 1984 period, with new monetary growth almost entirely
due to domestic credit expansion, while foreign exchange resources fell by
over US$100 million between June and December 1984.
13.     The rapid expansion of rural credit during 1984 was used by the
Government to mitigate the effects of the severe floods and to ensure ade-
quate seasonal credit for crop plantings; also, private credit expansion
helped stimulate recovery in the non-agricultural sector. However, the
excessive relaxation in monetary policy also began to threaten price
stability and created pressures on imports. By the end of 1984, the
Government decided to impose strong corrective monetary policy measures to
curb credit expansion. In consultation with the IMF, it announced:
(i) curtailment of refinancing by Bangladesh Bank, except for special cases
mainly in the export and agricultural sectors; (ii) significant increases in
interest rates on advances against fixed-term deposits and on trading credits
and advances secured by financial papers; (iii) an increase in the Bangladesh
Bank rate from 10.5% to 11Z; and (iv) an increase in interest rates on rural
individual savings deposits; (v) the imposition of individual credit ceilings
on banks to achieve an overall domestic credit target growth of 18% for FY85
and a 4Z penalty rate above the Bangladesh Bank rate for credits in excess of
these ceilings.
14.     While these measures failed to limit domestic credit expansion to the
18% target set, they were instrumental in moderating significantly the growth
of credit during the second half of FY85. From December 1984 to June 1985,
the annual rate of private credit expansion slowed to 12% compared with 40Z
during FY85 as a whoLe and 60% in FY84. Bangladesh Bank has successfully
continued to restrain domestic credit expansion during FY86. Under the
Stand-By Arrangement recently approved by the IMF (December 2, 1985),
Bangladesh Bank wiil adhere to credit limits and liquidity expansion targets
during the period of the Arrangement from December 1985 to June 1987.



-5-
15.     Price increases over the last two years have been relatively modest
when compared to the rapid expansion of money supply. The consumer price
indices for major cities show price increases of only 11-132 during FY85 or
about the same as in FY84. This can be explained partly by the accelerating
monetization of the economy. However, there is still some danger that the
recent large wage and salary increases in the public and private sectors,
combined with the substantial increase in liquidity during the last few
years, could set off a general cost-price spiral.
16.     Balance of Payments.  Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to
be characterized by a massive structural trade deficit and a correspondingly
heavy dependency on external aid. Export earnings finance only about one-
third of import requirements, with raw jute and jute products accounting for
55-60% of merchandise export earnings. Exogenous factors beyond the
Government's control (such as the vicissitudes of weather, international
terms of trade and the availability of external assistance) have exacerbated
the difficulty of managing the country's external resources. During FY81 and
FY82, Bangladesh suffered from a 30% decline in the terms of trade due to
rising oil prices and falling jute prices, and from stagnating external aid
disbursements. As the current account deficit widened to almost 15% of CDP
in FY82, foreign exchange resources declined to the equivalent of only about
two weeks of merchandise imports by June 1982.
17.    The pressures eased considerably in FY83 and external resources
remained less constrained in FY84. Merchandise exports rose from $680 mil-
lion in FY82 to $811 million by FY84, due to a recovery in the prices of raw
jute, jute products and tea, together with the emerging importance of non-
traditional exports. Even though still accounting for only a small propor-
tion (about 20%) of total merchandise exports by value, the rapid growth of
non-traditional exports is encouraging given the urgently needed diversifica-
tion of exports and establishment of a significant labor-intensive export
industry. Merchandise imports remained low in FY83 and FY84 as economic
recovery from the preceding recession was slow and aid-financed capital goods
imports were depressed by delays in project implementation. Although
workers' remittances began to decline to about $600 million in FY84 after
reaching a peak of $628 million in FY83, gross gold and foreign exchange
reserves still recovered from $122 million at the end of FY82 to $539 million
at the end of FY84 (equivalent to over 2.8 months of import requirements).
18.     Since the last quarter of FY84, Bangladesh's balance of payments
position again deteriorated. Import demand recovered substantially in FY85
from the unusually low levels of FY83 and FY84. This reflected in part the
recovery in the non-agricultural sectors but was also stimulated by the
injection of additional demand through the domestic credit system
(paras. 11-13 above). Furthermore, a high level of foodgrain imports was
necessitated by the flood emergencies. With only limited additional food aid
available in response to the crisis, the Government had to purchase over 1.2
million tons out of 2.6 million tons of foodgrain imports in FY85 from its
own resources at a cost of over $250 million. Workers' remittances also



-6-
declined further to $431 million (or less than 70Z of their FY83 peak level).
Therefore, despite record merchandise export earnings of $932 million and aid
disbursements of $1.27 billion, there was a substantial drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves of around $144 million in Ff85. Gross reserves (including
gold) stood at $395 million as of June 30, 1985, equivalent to only 1.8
months of import requirements.
19.     During the two-year period ended February 1985, the official exchange
rate of the taka, determined against a basket of six major currencies
appreciated by 20% in real effective terms. With the objective of ensuring
competitiveness and encouraging a gradual shift of resources to the traded
goods sector, the Government, in close consultation with the IMF, embarked as
of February, 1985 on a policy of steadily depreciating the taka. During the
period February-December 1985 the official exchange rate of the taka was
depreciated by 18%, in terms of the US dollar. Under the new Stand-By
Arrangement with the IMF the Government will continue to pursue a flexible
exchange rate policy designed to avoid a renewed appreciation of the official
real effective exchange rate.
20.     Over recent years an important innovation in Bangladesh's import
policy has been the considerable expansion of the scope for financing imports
through the secondary foreign exchange market (WES market) where supply and
demand determine the price of foreign exchange and hence its allocation among
competing users. The relative importance of the market has grown
significantly. Since July 1985 approximately 50% of all export earnings are
sold in the WES market, compared with about 23% in FY85 and only 8% in FY79.
The Government intends to transfer more transactions to the WES market during
FY87 and also to take measures to ensure the WES market to be a free inter-
bank market, with no net sales, on a quarterly basis, by Bangladesh Bank in
this market. The official exchange rate is currently at a discount of about
8% relative to the WES market. To further liberalize the trade and payments
system the Government, as of FY86, has moved from a positive import List to a
negative list which is supplemented by a "restricted" list containing items
importable under conditions specified in the Annual Import Order. Current
balance of payments constraints make further liberalization measures
difficult, but the Government is determined to reduce remaining restrictions
as the external situation permits.
21.     Bangladesh's balance of payments will continue to be under very
considerable pressure during FY86 and FY87. Merchandise export earnings are
unlikely to exceed significantly the FY85 level in nominal terms. Even
significant gains in non-traditional exports, in particular garments, as well
as in leather are estimated to no more than offset the expected losses in
earnings from export of jute and jute products due to the sharp decline in
international price. The inflow of workers' remittances is also unlikely to
recover fully to their former levels, although some increase is expected in
FY86 over FY85 levels. The situation will be further aggravated by the
substantial loan repayments falling due during FY86 and FY87 for recent
purchases or foodgrain imports on deferred terms. Bangladesh also has sub-



-7-
stantial repurchase obligations due to the IMF in FY86 and FY87. The critical
state of the country's external payments situation is demonstrated by the
further decline of official gross reserves (including gold) during the first
four months of FY86 to only $315 million, or about 1.5 months of import
requirements, as of end-October 1985.
22.     Taking into account prospective external assistance from donors and
further balance of payments support from the IMF (see paras. 37 and 38
below), it is estimate_. that foreign exchange availabilities should be suffi-
cient to finance merchandise imports at levels of about US$2.5 to US$2.6
billion in FY86 and FY87 as compared with imports of about US$2.3 billion in
FY83 and FY84 rising to US$2.6 billion in FY85. However, imports in FY83 and
FY84 were unusually depressed and the relatively high level in FY85 was made
possible only by medium-term foodgrain loans, a severe drawdown of reserves
and balance of payments support from the INF-CFF drawing of SDRs 55 million.
Even taking into account resources available under the IMF Stand-By
Arrangement in FY86 and FY87 and the proposed imports program credit, the
country's limited import capacity will continue to constrain the scope of
growth in non-agricultural production; it will thus be difficult to achieve
an overall rate of growth in GDP of about 4Z per annum as estimated by the
Government.
23.     External Debt.  Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on
highly concessional terms, servicing external medium and long-term debts has
so far not been a major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this
concessional debt is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years
after independence are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service
payments on external public medium and long-term debt rose from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14% in
FY85 and are expected to reach a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining
thereafter. However, when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt
service ratio in FY85 was about 24%, and is estimated to stay at about this
level during FY86 and FY87. The debt service ratio is forecast to decline
thereafter, as food debts are repaid, to about 17% by FY90. The Bank Group's
share of Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations will remain modest over this
period, rising from about 8% in FY84 to 92 in FY86. The Bank Group's share
of total debt outstanding and disbursed is projected to increase from about
30% in FY84 to about 35% in FY86.
24.     Public Finance.  In recent years, GOB has pursued relatively cautious
fiscal policies and considerable efforts have been made to consolidate the
investment program and to strengthen the system of budget management and
accounting. The FY83 Budget, in particular, contained significant revenue
raising measures and provided for a careful matching of expenditure targets
with realistic estimates of available resources. More recently, however,
budget planning and fiscal management have proved less effective and since
FY83 deficits have been avoided mainly because shortfalls in revenues have
been offset by significant shortfalls in development spending. The level of
current revenues, heavily dependent on the fluctuating level of dutiable



-8-
imports, increased in nominal terms by 1I% in FY84 and 20% in FY85, or 9.62
and 10% of CDP, respectively. Whill current expenditures increased at a
higher rate of about 20% in each year, these provisions were the minimum
required to meet increases in public sector remuneration and the requirements
of operations and maintenance of completed development programs. Although
domestic resource mobilization efforts in FY84 and FY85 were modest compared
with the gains made in FY83, the Government set ambitious targets for the
Annual Development Program (ADP) which in the event, could not be achieved,
mainly due to constraints in project implementation. Had the latter not been
the case, the limited availability of Taka resources would still have posed a
serious constraint to implementing the planned ADPs for these years.
25.     Revenue measures announced in the FY86 Budget included increases in
excise taxes, changes in income tax rates and coverage, an increase in the
land tax rates, modifications in customs duties and sales tax on imports, and
various higher fees and charges. The measures helped reduce the heavy
dependence of the country's tax system on import-related revenue sources.
Together with some additional tax measures announced subsequently in August
and September 1985, the total budget revenue to GDP ratio is projected to
remain at 10% in FY86, with tax revenue to GDP ratio increasing from 8.3Z to
8.5Z In addition, the Government, at the time of the Budget statement and
subsequently, has enacted a series of significant pricing adjustments
designed to reduce the level of subsidies on a range of public sector outputs
and services. Tne Government has introduced increases in natural gas prices
averaging about 20%, in the price of fertilizer averaging about 9Z and in
power rates averaging about 18%. The Government also expects foodgrain
subsidies to decline significantly from Tk 2.5 billion in FY85 to Tk 1.9
billion in FY86 as a result of lower volume of sales as well as increases in
ration prices during FY86. Actions to reduce subsidies under the foodgrain
ration system and in public wholesale fertilizer sales have been the subject
of understandings reached in the context of past IPCs, as well as under the
proposed IPC-13 operation (paras. 65-67 below).
26.     On the expenditure side, the Government announced in the FY86 Budget,
retroactive as of June 1, 1985, increases in the basic wage and salary scales
of the public sector, ranging from about 50% for the highest grades to 100Z
for the lowest. Other cash benefits were also raised. At the same time,
however, non-pecuniary benefits were reduced, especially for the higher
grades, resulting in a net average increase in public sector remuneration by
about 28%. This increase is the major factor in the budgeted 13% increase in
current expenditures. While a greater degree of selectivity in awarding
salary increases would have been preferable, the increases were long overdue.
They were basically cost-of-living adjustments to offset the severe erosion
in the purchasing power of public service salaries and were awarded following
recommendations of the National Pay Commission and the Pay Committee for
Armed Services Personnel. Low saLaries relative to the private sector have
been a disincentive to recruitment and motivation in the public service; the
need to raise public service salaries has also been an important topic in the
dialogue between IDA and GOB in the context of the proposed IPC-13 credit.



-9-
The ADP of Tk 38.3 billion proposed in the FY86 Budget represents a 16X
increase over the preliminary actuals achieved in FY85 and it is most
unlikely that an ADP of this magnitude can be achieved in the current fiscal
year. As part of its mid-term review of the FY86 Budget in February 1986,
the Government will revise the budgeted ADP after a reassessment of resource
availabilities and project implementation capacity.
27.     The experience of the last few years indicates the need for more
effective resource planning and administration in the management of the
budget, and has highlighted the importance of removing institutional con-
straints to the implementation of development programs. Both these issues
are addressed under the proposed credit.
D. Development Plannint and Policy Issues
28.    After completion of the Second Five-Year Plan period in June 1985,
the Third Five-Year Plan (FY86-FY90) has been approved by the National
Economic Council in December 1985. The Third Five-Year Plan (TEYP) envisages
total outlays of Tk 386 billion, Tk 250 billion of which in the public and
Tk 136 billion in the private sector. This volume implies a 23Z increase at
FY85 prices over the actual outlays of the Second Plan. The share of private
sector outlays has been increased to over one-third reflecting the
Government's intention to enhance significantly the role of the private
sector in the economy. A preliminary review of the Plan documents suggest
that the priority development objectives of the TFYP follow in their basic
direction the priorities outlined in the Second Plan: (a) reducing sig-
nificantly population growth from the present rate of 2.6% per annum;
Cb) eliminating mass illiteracy through universal primary education and
promoting human resource development; (c) achieving foodgrain self-
sufficiency; and (d) promoting domestic energy development. Overall,
however, the emphasis on the expansion of productive employment in the
economy and on meeting minimum basic needs of the population has been
strengthened significantly.
29.     With appropriate producer incentives, resources to provide needed
inputs to farmers, and an expanded role for the private sector in the provi-
sion and servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs, foodsrain
self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade. In spite of
set-backs from floods, the country is already making good progress towards
achieving this geal. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate, the emphasis
on primary education is well founded; under the Plan the objective of achiev-
ing universal primary education has been adopted. Prospects for achieving
the objectives of educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability
would be improved by success in reducing the ponulation zrowth rate; this
will require more determined efforts than have been made thus far, especially
with regard to birth control efforts, which have suffered from poor implemen-
tation and have had only limited success. The Government has recently taken
steps to coordinate more closely its maternal and child care services with



-10-
its family planning activities and to strengthen training and supervisions
programs for field staff.
30.     Accelerated utilization of the country's energy resources, par-
ticularly natural gas, is very important since petroleum imports are sizable,
currently the equivaLent of about three-quarters of merchandise export
earnings. The Government is already implementing sizeable investments to
augment the supply of gas to meet growing demand from the power and fer-
tilizer sectors. The implementation of appropriate energy conservation
measures and the setting of energy prices at economically efficient levels
will also be critical to the success of the energy development program.
31.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70Z of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector - especially small-
scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one subsector
will generate effective demand for the output of others.
32.     As noted in paragraph 10, the Government's New Industrial Policy has
placed greater emphasis on the industrial sector for the long-term growth of
the economy and employment generation and given a leading role to the private
sector in industrial development. It has limited and reduced the role of the
public sector in manufacturing by divesting nationalized industries and
reducing the regulatory constraints on the private sector. In line with the
privatization thrust, the Government has recently indicated that the role of
the private sector in the remaining nationalized commercial banks may be
gradually increased. Moreover, the Government has increased the incentives
for export industries and liberalized the import regime (see para. 20).
However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development finance
institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an increasing
problem of debt arrears, and to rationalize industrial incentives. The
Government is now examining the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consultants' studies. A series of on-
going IDA-financed studies is expected to lead to action programs for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies. Reforms
in these areas will be critical to expanding and diversifying the coun:ry's
exports.
33.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will require
a sustained and intensive domestic resource mobilization effort to raise tax
revenues, increase the level of cost recovery, reduce subsidies, and improve
the financial performance of public enterprises. In the medium term, the tax
base will have to be broadened to reduce its present dependence on import



-11-
duties, thereby improving the elasticity of the tax system. In addition,
more efforts will be required to effect significant improvements in develop-
ment administration. There is urgent need to strengthen project
implementation, streamline administrative procedures, and improve decision-
making processes. Recognizing that local government bodies can play an
effective roLe in the development effort, the Government has decided to
decentralize a number of planning and administrative functions to the
upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implementation and impact of this
policy will need to be closely monitored by the central authorities.
E. The Need for Program Lending in Bangladesh
34.     Bangladesh appropriately looks to the IMF (paras. 37-38) to provide
balance of payments support to counter short-term adverse movements in its
external account. The IMF provides relatively short-term finance, and thu:
one must expect that it will be repaid in years of less than average balance
of payments pressures and be called upon in years of substantially more than
average pressures. However, the country will also continue to require sub-
stantial long-term program-type assistance on highly concessional terms for
some years to come, because of the large structural imbalances that exist
between the country's export earnings and its import requirements, and
between its domestic savings rate and its minimum investment needs. Even
with a higa degree of import substitution in fertilizer and energy and less
dependence on foodgrain imports, the external resource gap cannot be expected
to narrow significantly in the near future, because of the continuing uncer-
tain prospects for jute exports and the small base from which non-traditional
exports are growing. Despite improvements in the mobilization of domestic
financial resources and the increase (until FY84) in private remittances from
abroad, gross national savings still represent only about 4-5Z of GNP, while
external assistance finances about 75-80% of total investment. In view of
Bangladesh's low capita income and the large subsistence sector in its
economy, even strong domestic financial resource mobilization efforts will
not permit a radical reduction of the domestic savings gap in the short- to
medium-term.
35.     While there will be a continuing need for substantial amounts of
commodity aid, there are also problems in maintaining a satisfactory pace
of disbursements from the available pipeline of project aid, currently total-
ing around US$4.0 billion. In the last year or so, the delays in project aid
disbursements have been attributable more to institut onal constraints than
to the shortage of domestic counterpart funding. Nevertheless, assuming
institutional constraints could be eased, the limited availability of domes-
tic financial resources would pose an impediment to achieving a significantly
improved rate of project implementation and disbursement. The situation has
been aggravated by the recent decline in the proportion of commodity aid to
total aid disbursements from about 502 in FY79 to below 34Z in FY85. In
order to support a faster pace of development and to increase the effective-
ness of foreign assistance, this trend needs to be reversed because:
(i) given the limited scope for increasing domestic resources in the short-



-12-
term, more commodity/program assistance will be required to generate local
counterpart funds and thereby facilitate a faster pace of project
implementation; (ii) additional commodity/program assistance would provide
more resources for essential operation and maintenance (O&K) expenditures;
(iii) adequate fast disbursing non-project assistance would help minimize
major disruptions caused by import restrictions due to chronic shortages of
foreign exchange.
36.    In response to the acute need for commodity assistance, the transfer
of Bank Group financial resources in this form has been given high priority
in IDA's assistance strategy for Bangladesh; program lending constitutes an
important component of the lending program, accounting for between 30Z and
35Z of total lending.
F. Relations with the IMF
37.    The IMF provided assistance to Bangladesh under the Compensatory
Financing Facility (CFF) in February 1982 for a shortfall in export earnings
and in August 1982 for excess cereal import payments; assistance was also
provided under a six-months Stand-By Arrangement during March-August 1983.
During FY84, when the external payments situation was manageable, the
Government did not seek further IMF assistance. However, in the aftermath of
the severe floods in 1984 the IMF made SDR 54.9 million available in April
1984 under the CFF for excess cereal import payments. In view of the
deteriorating foreign exchange position during 1985 and the unfavorable
balance of payments prospects for the next two years, the IMF Executive
Directors, on December 2, 1985, approved a Stand-By Arrangement in the amount
of SDR 180 million. The Stand-By Arrangement will be for a period of 18
months extending from December 1985 to June 1987.
38.    The stabilization program to be supported by the IMF Stand-By
Arrangement focuses on mobilizing additional domestic resources, restrained
monetary and credit policies and, through the pursuit of flexible exchange
rate policies, strengthening the competitiveness of the traded goods sector.
The broad areas of the conditionalities for the Stand-By Arrangement are
complementary to the policy and institutional reform measures to be carried
out under the proposed Credit, as well as to IDA's broader economic develop-
ment policy objectives.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
39.    Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,382.92
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved 90 new credits since Bangladesh



-13-
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 24% of
IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development; 11%
for industry; 13% for power and energy; 92 for transportation and
telecommunications; 9% for education and technical assistance; 2% for urban
infrastructure; 2X for population control; and 30% for imports program
support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the composi-
tion of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to change
markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and three
investments have been approved to date.
40.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives as summarized in paragraph 28
above. IDA's lending has emphasized agriculture, with particular importance
attached to increasing food production through augmenting the supply of
essential inputs such as irrigation equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds,
the development of flood control infrastructure, extension services, research
programs and rural cooperatives, the provision of agriculture credit, and the
promotion of input and output pricing policies that allow adequate incentives
to farmers to increase production. IDA has also supported the Government's
efforts to encourage greater private sector participation in the supply and
distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's lending program vill place
increasing emphasis on agricultural diversification through increased produc-
tion of fish and forestry products.
41.     IDA's lending for power and gas investments is designed to expand the
use of natural gas in substitution of imported oil, promote conservation
measures and more efficient energy use, and encourage further gas and oil
exploration. IDA is also financing projects to expand the country's rural
electrification system and power generation and transmission capabilities.
Through its projects, IDA is also assisting the Power Development Board in
reducing losses in power transmission.
42.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two areas
- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary education
supports the national goals of achieving un_:versal primary education and
reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading quality.
Projects for vocational and technical education promote the training of
craftsmen, technicians, and engineers.
43.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population expected to increase from about 16 million in 1985 to
between 35 to 40 million by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also
help the Government address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.



-14-
44.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to assist
the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector enterprises;
(b) reforming trade, industrial and financial policies; (c) strengthening
existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export development
programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries. In addition to
assistance under program credits, IDA has supported projects to increase
fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute and textile industries,
strengthen the development finance institutions, and promote small-scale
industries.
45.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
IDA has focused in the transport sector on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and are inadequately maintained. IDA's future
lending program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading
existing roads.
46.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
external financial resources discussed earlier, the assistance strategy for
Bangladesh provides for a significant proportion of annual lending to be in
the form of program credits. In addition to providing much-needed foreign
exchange and local counterpart financial support, annual program credits have
provided a useful vehicle for addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-
economic issues (paras. 48-50 below).
47.     Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domestic
financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, shortage of
managerial and technical staff, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA,
in consultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with
the Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of
broader institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance
for project preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train
civil servants and other managerial and technical personnel; and
(c) encouraging the Government to introduce administrative reforms to promote
increased efficiency and undertake a comprehensive review of the incentive
and promotion systems, training, and career development opportunities in the
public service. The proposed IPC-13 Credit supports these efforts.
PART III - IDA'S IMPORT PROGRAM CREDITS
48.     Since 1972, IDA has extended twelve import program credits for a
total of US$965 million. The scope and objectives of the IPCs have evolved
in line with the needs of the country. The first three supported critical
post-independence rehabilitation needs. Beginning with IPC-4, the emphasis



-15-
changed to efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of the jute and cotton
textile industries. By FY78, progress in these areas was sufficient to allow
IPC-7 and IPC-8 to focus on export development and structural problems of the
industrial sector as a whole. Given the critical importance of the agricul-
tural sector and of food security, IPC-9 and IPC-10 concentrated on reforms
aimed at increasing agricultural production and improving the efficiency and
equity of foodgrain distribution, but industrial and trade policy improve-
ments also continued to receive attention. In view of the urgent need to
cope with the severe macro-economic difficulties facing the country, IPCs 11
and 12 addressed broader issues relating to effective resource utilization
and appropriate levels of Government expenditures along with new initiatives
in agriculture, trade and industry.
49.     IPC-12, for SDRs 135.4 million (US$140 million), was approved by the
Board in May 1984 and became effective in June 1984, when the first tranche
of US$70 million was released. The main conditions for the release of the
second tranche (US$70 million) were: (a) decisions to be taken by the
Government on adjustments in fertilizer prices and power rates by January
1, 1985; and (b) IDA being satisfied that the Government was pursuing sound
economic development policies. While price adjustments were not fully imple-
mented by the due dates, since the severe floods of 1984 constrained the
covernment's capacity for implementing major price adjustments, IDA neverthe-
less considered the Government action with respect to fertilizer and power
prices adequate to meet the release conditions. With respect to macro-
economic performance, Government measures to restrain the growth of domestic
credit and restore monetary stability (discussed earlier), which were fol-
lowed by the conclusion of CFF arrangement with the IMF, satisfied the
economic performance conditions. The Second Tranche was therefore released
in March 1985; the credit has now been fully disbursed.
50.     IPC-13 will support:  (i) further improvements in agricultural sector
policies and programs, including agricultural credit, public foodgrain dis-
tribution programs, fertilizer pricing and distribution, and institutional
reforms; and (ii) policy measures to strengthen the country's economic
management capacity including budgetary planning and management, operation
and maintenance, debt recording, project implementation and public service
management. IDA is currently conducting with the Government an intensive
policy dialogue on major issues of industrial policy and trade reforms. It
is expected that trade and industrial policies, including, in particular,
measures to promote and diversify exports, will constitute an important focus
for future IPC or sector operations.



-16-
PART IV - DEVELOPMENT POLICY AND MANAGEMENT REFORMS
Introduction
51.     Faced with severe external and domestic financial resource con-
straints as a result of the international economic recession of FYB1-83, the
Government of Bangladesh took a series of steps to improve public sector
resource mobilization and utilization. Government policies included actions
to increase prices and reduce subsidies in public sector outputs and
services, reforms in the programming and financing of the public investment
program, and improvements in aspects of project implementation. However,
given the prospects for continuing tight resource constraints over the medium
term, the Government recognizes the necassity for intensified efforts in
these areas in order to achieve even modest sustained advances in economic
growth. In the agricultural sector in particular, it will be important to
increase output and productivity by pursuing policies conducive to the more
efficient utilization of scarce resources, including improvements in the
agricultural credit system, in the public foodgrain distribution system, in
public sector organizations involved in agriculture, and in the pricing and
distribution of fertilizer.
1. Agricultural Sector
52.     Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, accountin;
for about 50% of GDP, and directly or indirectly for about 75% of employment
and exports. Over the past several years, the country has achieved major
successes in agricultural development, which is especially impressive in
comparison to the performance of most other low-income countries. In the
past five years, foodgrain production has accelerated to nearly 4.0% p.a.,
and agriculture value-added to over 3.0% p.a., significantly above the rate
of growth in population. Agricultural production has also become increas-
ingly resilient to natural disasters, with record crops in four out of the
past five years despite bad monsoons and serious droughts or floods.
Finally, diversification to wheat has been a dramatic success, exports of
non-jute agricultural commodities have increased substantially, and in jute
Bangladesh has captured an increasing share of a declining world market.
53.     These successes are directly related to the high priority given to
agriculture by GOB, and to the implementation of basically sound policies and
programs. Allocation of public investment resources to agriculture has been
given priority in successive deveiopment plans; quick-gestation and low-cost
investments in irrigation and flood control have been specifically promoted;
adequate incentives have been provided to farmers through the public
foodgrain procurement policies; sizable subsidies in fertilizer, foodgrains
and irrigation services have been sharply reduced and nearly eliminated over
time; and finally, the role of the private sector in the efficient distribu-
tion of key inputs such as fertilizer and minor irrigation equipment has been
rapidly expanded.



-17-
A. Agricultural Credit
54.     In support of increased utilization of agricultural inputs, agricul-
tural lending has grown very rapidly over the past few years, from a level of
Tk 3.7 billion in FY81 to Tk 10.1 billion in FY84 and Tk 11.3 billion in
FY85. The Government used the rapid expansion in agricultural lending in
early FY85 to mitigate the income losses suffered by farmers as a result of
the severe floods in 1984 and ensure adequate credit for replanting the
crops. The rapid growth in lending has, however, been accompanied by an
unacceptably low rate of credit recoveries, and financial discipline in the
agricultural credit system has been weakened because lending institutions
were compelled to expand lending without taking account of the credit worthi-
ness or repayment history of the borrowers. Furthermore, the rapid expansion
of agricultural credit had been a major contributor to the recent sharp
increase in money supply that necessitated the stabilization measures dis-
cussed under paras. 13 and 14.
55.     The 1982/83 Joint GOB/IDA Agricultural Credit Review presented a set
of recommendations aimed at strengthening the agricultural credit system and
making it more accessible and its services more affordable to a wide cross-
section of the farming population. While the Government has already imple-
mented some of the recommendations resulting from the review, policy action
on several other recommendations will be supported under the proposed credit.
56.     Rural Bank Operations:  The large number of crop, seasonal and other
agricultural based credit programs and the often rather difficult
borrower/lender relationships at the field level have adversely affected the
quality of services rendered by credit institutions at the branch level in
rural areas. The situation had been aggravated by the proliferation of rural
branches of the banks which were required to open new rural branches in
accordance with a prescribed ratio to branches in urban areas. This has
promoted overborrowing for non-productive purposes, disrupted the timely flow
of credit to creditworthy borrowers and contributed to the poor recovery
rate. Following the recommendations of the Joint Credit Review, the
Government introduced (i) an "Annual Crop Loan System" which amalgamates many
of the existing short-term credit programs and (ii) credit passbooks that
help banks assess the creditworthiness of borrowers and the amount of credit
already extended by other banks. A similar simplification of medium-term
credit programs which ensures uniformity of lending terms and conditions will
be undertaken and to achieve this objective Bangladesh Bank is to prepare an
implementation plan by March 31, 1986.
57.     Interest Rates:  The Joint Review recommended an adjustment of
agricultural credit interest rates, primarily to ensure adequate margins to
the credit institutions. Subsequently, the interest rates on agricultural
credit for short-term and medium-term loans to co-operatives were raised in
October 1983 to 10% for short term credit and I1I for medium term credit;
the cost to final borrowers (including service charges) was raised to 19% for



-18-
short-term loans and to 162 for medium-term loans. In addition, penal rates
on overdues of 3% on short-term loans and 6% on medium-term loans were
introduced. The margins thus allowed were thought to be sufficient to cover
the administrative cost of the financial institutions, improve their loan
recovery, and give them the financial base for substantially reducing their
dependence on GOB for guarantees against non-recovery of loans. The October
1983 increases in interest rates resulted in the maintenance of positive real
rates of interest during FY84 and FY85. The adequacy of interest rates and
margins has to be reviewed at regular intervals and, if necessary, adjusted.
To this effect, an Interest Rate Advisory Committee has been established
which is to meet at least once in six months to review the interest rate
structure in agriculture.
58.     Deposit Mobilization:  As a corollary to the measures needed to curb
central bank refinance and to make it more responsive to development needs,
credit institutions must improve deposit mobilization. A first step towards
mobilizing more deposits in rural areas was last year's increase in interest
rates on term deposits in rural ereas by 2.5 to 4 percentage points above
the rates prevailing in the urban areas (12-15% for term deposits). In
addition, as of January 1, 1985, the interest rate on savings deposits in
rural areas for accounts of individuals was raised from 8.5-10% to 10.5-11%.
Since institutions differ with regard to their deposit structure and the
extent of their deposit mobilization capability, Bangladesh Bank needs to
address the issue of deposit mobilization on a bank by bank basis by
(i) assisting them in developing action plans for improving their deposit
mobilization performance, and (ii) establishing for each bank a target for
allocating a proportion of its own funds to agricultural credit. The
Covernment and Bangladesh Bank will prepare a detailed action program to
improve deposit mobilization in rural areas by December 31, 1986. It will
take into account the recommendations of ongoing studies in this area under
the USAID-financed Rural Finance Project and include not only a review of
deposit rates but also of other incentives to mobilize deposits.
59.     Refinancing:  Funding of the expanding volume of agricultural credit
has been sustained to a substantial extent through (i) refinance by
Bangladesh Bank, and (ii) the provision by the Covernment of guarantees
which, although designed to cover risk involved in agricultural lending, has
been used as another source of liquidity by the credit institutions. These
factors have contributed significantly to the excessive growth of money suply
during the past two years. The share of refinance in total agricultural
lending in FY83 and FY84 has risen to over 60%. Even though the commercial
banking system as a whole had liquidity well in excess of minimum
requirements, it drew increased refinance from Bangladesh Bank to expand
agricultural lending by an additional 50% in FY84. Liberal refinancing by
Bangladesh Bank has thus been a disincentive to the credit institutions to
give high priority to the mobilization of their own resources, especially
rural deposits, for funding agricultural credits.



-19-
60.     At the same time the annual agricultural lending and refinance tar-
gets which were determined by Bangladesh Bank in consultation with the banks
and agricultural development agencies have not been an effective instrument
to achieve a planned allocation of credit to the agricultural sector.
Bangladesh has set annual targets for rapid expansion in lending without
regard to the viability of such expansion in lending. Individual banks have
in turn viewed the targets as Government 'instructions' to expand agricul-
tural lending. In the absence of efforts to achieve an adequate level of
credit recoveries or deposit mobilization in rural areas to finance such
lending the banks have relied excessively on Bangladesh Bank refinance.
Bangladesh Bank has sought to reduce the demand for refinance by raising the
average refinance interest rate to 8.5% p.a. and by introducing a varying
rate of interest on refinance related to the extent of refinance drawn from
Bangladesh Bank by individual banks. However, with cost of funds from
refinance significantly lower than the cost of raising deposits, the changes
in refinance policy announced in FY84 have not fully achieved their intended
effect.
61.     While Bangladesh Bank will continue its policy of setting an annual
target for agricultural lending, this target will mainly serve as an
indicator of the Government's priorities. Bangladesh Bank will establish
overall limits on the extent of agricultural refinance to be provided to
individual lending institutions. The refinance limits will take into account
credit recovery performance, deposit mobilization and demand for credit. In
case of failure on the part of a bank to iwprove its collection performance
or mobilize deposits, Bangladesh Bank's refinance will not be used simply
to compensate for such shortfalls. The refinance limits will be guided by
the need to maintain control over the total volume of prudent by acceptable
credit expansion in the agricultural sector and of total credit expansion.
62.     Credit Recovery:  As noted above, the very rapid increase in agricul-
tural lending over the past few years has been accompanied by a very low
level of agricultural credit recoveries. With recoveries of past short- and
medium-term loans currently only amounting to about 40% of current dues plus
arrears, the lending institutions have, as noted earlier, relied heavily on
refinance from Bangladesh Bank to maintain their lending to the agricultural
sectors.  The banks did not have much incentive to press for loan recoveries
since bad debts were covered by the Special Agricultural Credit Program
(SACP) which was backed by Government guarantees. The SACP system was not
only targeted directly to deal with loan recovery and bad debt problems but
also provided insurance against poor liquidity due to delayed recovery.
Following the recommendations of the Joint Credit Review Committee, the
Government has decided to abolish the SACP. Since there will be a continued
need for relief to cover the cost of bad debts arising from natural
calamities, the Government has accepted in principle that an Agricultural and
Rural Guarantee Fund (ARGF) be established with the participation of
Bangladesh Bank, the banks and the Government. The ARGF will be the only
Government guarantee fund operating in Bangladesh and will only cover losses
arising from natural calamities. The operational guidelines for establishing



-20-
ARGF will be formulated by Bangladesh Bank by June 30, 1986 and discussed
with IDA before implementation.
63.     In addition, the Government is introducing the following measures to
improve credit recovery: (i) the issuance of instructions to local
Government officials to afford protection to bank staff in the performance of
their duties; (ii) improvement in the intra-bank and inter-bank information
system on defaulters; (iii) an increase in the number of Certificate
Officers, who are charged with collection from defaulters, and better staff-
ing of Certificate Courts; (iv) relaxation of Government restrictions on the
purchase of transport facilities for the banks' field staff; (v) instructions
to individuaL banks by Bangladesh Bank to reduce progressively the volume of
fresh lending at the end of each quarter at those branches where there is no
improvement in recovery levels; and (vi) in order to improve loan recovery in
a medium-term setting, studies and the subsequent preparation of an action
program by Bangladesh Bank aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity
of the agricultural credit institutions. These studies will be conducted as
a follow-up to a general credit survey currently being carried out under a
USAID financed Rural Finance Project, and will concentrate, on the operation
of bank branches, their staffing patterns and requirements, trAining needs,
incentives and delegation of authority. The draft terms of reference of
these studies will be completed by July 31, 1986 (at the time of the comple-
tion of the survey under the USAID financed Rural Finance Project) and the
studies will be completed by December 31, 1986.
64.     It is GOB's objective to attain full recovery of agricultural credits
as early as possible. In order to achieve this objective, Bangladesh Bank
will establish average annual credit re_overy targets satisfactory to IDA and
to be monitored by GOB. Failure to meet such targets by the banks will
entail significant penalties including the reduction of refinance limits for
agriculture and other lending. The average recovery rates (which include
both arrears and current dues) will be progressively raised. Bangladesh Bank
has already fixed average recovery targets at 50Z for FY86, 55% for FY87 and
60% for FY88; Bangladesh Bank will, however, aim to achieve higher levels of
60% in FY87 ad 65% in FY88. Progress towards these targets will be reviewed
every six months. Furthermore, Bangladesh Bank will monitor progress based
on the age structure of agricultural loans and recoveries due to ensure that
the maximum effort is made to recover current dues fully.
B. Public Foodgrain Procurement and Distribution
65.     IPCs 9-12 supported a gradual process of reform in the Government's
foodgrain procurement and distribution policy. The objective has been to
transform the traditional urban-biased public food policy into a set of
market-oriented stabilization instruments to promote producer incentives,
consumer welfare and food security. While significant progress has been
made, some major inefficiencies and inequities in the Public Food
Distribution System (PFDS) remain. Grain sales through Statutory Rationing
(SR), the program of distribution to "essential and other priority groups"



-21-
(PC) and the so-called modified ration system (MR) are subsidized relative to
the market prices and to the full cost of domestic and external procurement.
These programs account for over 60% of the PFDS; in FY84, 1.34 million tons
were sold under these programs out of 2.05 million tons under the PFDS in
toto. Even though the level of unit subsidy on domestically procured
foodgrain has been reduced from about 35Z to about 122 from FY79 to FY85, it
is still a considerable burden on the Government's budget since the subsidies
on such sales cost about Tk. 1.8 billion. The budgetary subsidy is even
higher, currently around Tk. 2.5 billion annually, because of the relatively
high prices attributed to food aid imports, the frequent lags in the adjust-
ment of issue prices, and the very low prices of some categories of PFDS
sales. Beneficiaries, especially under the SR and PG programs, are almost
entirely public sector employees, defense personnel and empLoyees in large
industries (jute, textiles). The subsidies are commonly regarded by these
beneficiaries as income in kind. It is also generally believed that a sig-
nificant part of ration and other entitlement are resold or redistributed by
beneficiaries.
66.     Unless the subsidies are eliminaced over time, the demands of the
ration system will limit the Government's flexibility in adjusting PFDS sales
volumes so as to effectively stabilize grain prices and thus serve consumers
and producers throughout the country as well as its ability to meet the needs
of the poorer sections of the population through the programs for Relief
Operations and Vulnerable Group Feeding.
67.     The Government is committed to reduce foodgrain subsidization and to
limit it eventually to needy population groups and to transform PFDS into an
effective instrument of food security policy. GOB has therefore appointed a
high-level National Committee to review the PFDS and the food subsidy policy.
Based on the the recommendations of this Committee the Government will by
March 31, 1986 prepare an action program to gradually eliminate the current
food subsidies. In the meantime, the Government increased ration prices by
5% for wheat and by 3% for rice in December 1985 and is committed to a fur-
ther increase within the second half of FY86 to reduce further unit subsidies
and to cut the aggregate budgetary subsidy by Tk 0.6 billion in FY86. The
exact timing and levels of this price adjustment will be agreed with IDA by
March 31, 1986. Furthermore, as a condition of the release of the second
tranche of this credit (para. 97), GOB will agree with IDA on future specific
measures to be implemented by December 31, 1986 to reduce the unit subsidies
in FY87 to a level acceptable to IDA; IDA would expect the unit subsidy to be
cut by about 50Z from FY86 levels.
C. Future Role of Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
68.     The BADC is a major public sector agency responsible for several
agricultural operations involving the purchase and sale of fertilizer, seeds
and irrigation equipment. It employs over 20,000 staff, has agricultural
depots throughout the country and an annual turnover of about $400 million.
One important element in the Government's strategy to increase foodgrain



-22-
production has been to try to augment the supply and improve the distribution
of agricultural inputs and equipment to farmers. In order to achieve this
goal the Government has recognized the need for a significantly greater
private sector involvement in an area which, in the past, has been largely
the preserve of the BADC. The Government has in recent years fully
privatized retail trade in fertilizer and taken steps to permit private
dealers to enter the wholesale fertilizer sales trade, and to import and sell
minor irrigation equipment and pesticides. More recently in the context of
this credit, the Government has agreed that private wholesale distributors
will henceforth be permitted to purchase and take delivery of fertilizer
directly from the fertilizer factories and certain nominated inland depots,
instead of being restricted to take delivery from BADC depots as at present.
This should help ensure timely distribution of fertilizer to the farmers and
reduce the cost of public sector distribution. In the wake of these policy
changes to promote the private sector, the role of BADC needs to be adjusted
and re-defined.
69.     To undertake a comprehensive review of BADC, the Government will
employ consultants to study BADC's responsibilities and functions, make
recommendations as to the future role of BADC in providing agricultural
services, and propose an appropriate organizational structure and staffing
pattern to meet the requirements of BADC's redefined role. The study will
be undertaken in accordance with TORs acceptable to IDA and will be completed
by November 30, 1986; the report's findings will be discussed with IDA and
thereafter implemented.
D. Fertilizer Pricing
70.     The fertilizer subsidy in FY85 exceeded Tk 0.9 billion (15% of cost).
The size of the subsidy impinges upon the availability of resources for
financing other essential investments. Under an agreement with IDA in 1979,
in the context of the First Fertilizer Import Credit (Cr.944-BD), GOB under-
took to eliminate the fertilizer subsidy in stages by the end of FY85. In
line with this commitment, fertilizer sales prices more than doubled between
1979 and 1983. The average unit budgetary subsidy was reduced from about 50%
in FY79 to about 24% in FY84; the total budgetary subsidy declined from 9Z of
the ADP in FY79 to about 4% in FY84. In view of the Government's concerns
that a series of large price increases might adversely affect fertilizer
consumption and progress towards foodgrain self-sufficiency, it was agreed
under IPC-12 to postpone elimination of the fertilizer subsidy to the end of
FY86.
71.     Official wholesale prices of fertilizer were not adjusted in FY84 and
with high market prices for all important agricultural products the off-take
of fertilizer increased by about 17% in FY84. Fertilizer prices were
increased by a weighted average of about 10% in July 1984 and again by 7X in



-23-
January 1985 to reduce the level of per unit economic fertilizer subsidy 1/
to about 17%. Nevertheless, due to high prices for agricultural output,
increased demand as a result of replanting of crops damaged by the floods,
and a major expansion of agricultural credit, fertilizer off-take continued
to increase by about 15% during the first half of FY85. During this period,
farmers, because of the scarcity of fertilizer during the latter part of
FY85, were effectively paying unsubsidized prices for fertilizer, but the
official wholesale price continued to be subsidized, with large budgetary
losses to the Government.
72.     More recently, fertilizer off-take has begun to fall partly as a
lagged response to declining paddy and jute prices and there are concerns
that abrupt large price increases could, in these circumstances, lead to an
unacceptable decline in fertilize- application. The Government, while
remaining firmly committed to the elimination of the subsidy, has therefore
decided, in agreement with IDA, on gradual increases so as to achieve the
objective of subsidy elimination by July 1, 1986. Fertilizer prices were
increased on July 1 by about 3% in each case for urea, triple sulphate (TSP)
and muriate of potash (MP). Further increases were implemented with effect
from October 1 of about 4% for urea, 10% for TSP and 12Z for MP. The effect
of these increases was to eliminate the economic subsidy on urea (which
accounts for two thirds of fertilizer consumption in Bangladesh), and reduce
the subsidies on TSP and MP to about 14X and 18% respectively. The.
Government has undertaken (i) to review in consultation with IDA fertilizer
prices again by April 1, 1986 and make such further adjustments as may be
required to eliminate economic subsidies by no later than July 1, 1986; and
(ii) thereafter, review wholesale fertilizer prices no less frequently than
at quarterly intervals and adjust prices, as needed, at least twice in each
fiscal year, to ensure that there is no economic subsidy on such sales.
2. Strengthening of Economic Management Capacity
A. Budgetary Planning and Management
73.     During the past three years, the Government has begun to implement a
number of measures to improve budgetary and financial planning and
management. Significant progress has been made with respect to the delega-
tion of financial authority to line ministries and project agencies, the
streamlining of budgetary procedures, the decentralization of administrative
activities, the denationalization of public enterprises, and the restructur-
ing of public corporations; these efforts have been supported under previous
IPC operations.
1! Economic subsidy is defined in relation to world market prices, using
export parity prices for urea and import parity prices for triple sulphate
(TSP) and muriate of potash (MP).



-24-
74.     However, budgetary planning and administration have continued to
suffer from a tendency to over-estimate both the availability of resources as
well as the capacity of line Ministries and agencies to prepare and implement
projects. Measures taken in FY83 to improve budgetary management included
the formulation of a protected Core Program within the ADP, the substantial
reduction in the number of projects, particularly of unapproved projects,
included in the ADP, and the streamlining of ADP fund release procedures.
The FY83 ADP reflected in overall size, resource availability and estimated
project implementation capability a fairly realistic assessment of available
resources. In FY84 and FY85, however, resource planning and administration
were less satisfactory. Actual ADP expenditures in both these fiscal years
fell considerably short of budget estimates. These shortfalls were mainly
due to well-below target performance in project aid disbursements,
attributable largely to physical and administrative implementation
constraints. As noted in para. 26 above, the FY86 ADP budget of Tk 38.3
billion is unlikely to be achieved; the Government is expected to revise the
size of the ADP at the mid-term Budget review in February 1986 after a reas-
sessment of resource availabilities and project implementation capacity.
75.     Continued over-estimation of ADP expenditures undermines the effec-
tiveness of the ADP as a tool for planning and managing Government develop-
ment expenditures. The recent experience underscores the need for more
effective planning and management of public resources. With this in view,
the Government has undertaken in the context of the proposed Credit a number
of steps that would improve the Government's accounting and monitoring
capability, strengthen the planning of the ADP, and introduce multi-year
budget planning.
1. Strengthening of Accounting and Monitoring Capability.
76.      One of the major impediments to improved management of the budgetary
process is the lack of up-to-date information on the status of revenue col-
lection and expenditures throughout the year. This complicates the task of
formulating the budget and makes it difficult to undertake budgetary adjust-
ments (e.g., at the time of the mid-term budget review) with the required
degree of confidence. Measures are, therefore, to be introduced within
Government to ensure the timely compilation of reliable budget data. The
Government is receiving technical assistance from the IMF in installing a
revenue forecasting system and in improving the system of fiscal reporting in
the National Board of Revenue. It is expected that progress will be made
during the remainder of FY86 so as to facilitate a more realistic estimate of
domestic resource availabilities for the preparation of the FY87 Budget. On
the expenditure side, an interministerial Committee established in the
Ministry of Finance on Budget Monitoring and Evaluation has furnished its
report to the Government. On the basis of the Committee's Report a time-
bound action program will be formulated by the Government, in consultation
with IDA, by March 31, 1986 and its implementation will begin in the fourth
quarter of FY86.



-25-
2. Multi-Year Budget Planning.
77.     The strictly one-year time horizon in budget planning and implementa-
tion used by the Covernment has proved an inadequate framework for the
allocation of resources. In particular, it fails to provide the Government
with the information required to understand the future capital and recurrent
cost implications of their annual decisions on the ADP. The Government has
therefore decided to introduce a medium-term, i.e., three year programming
and budgeting framework with resource and expenditure projections. As a
first step, the Covernment will formulate (by January 31, 1986) "Shadow ADPs"'
for FY87 and FY88 assessing for those years likely resource requirements for
the ongoing projects; this will be an important factor in planning the number
and size of new projects which might be added to the public investment
program during these later years. Technical assistance being provided by the
IMF will include advice in the preparation of rolling forecasts of financial
resources for the medium term. This will help the Government to develop a
three-year timeframe for budgetary planning and management.
B. Allocation of Resources for Operation and Maintenance
78.     Inadequate resources allocated for the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of infrastructural facilities and for the operation of public services
have led to a deterioration and low utilization of valuable capital assets
and contributed to the poor performance of public service agencies.
Currently the system of allocating budgetary resources is biased towards new
investments and the requirements for O&M are generally either accorded lower
priority or are not even properly assessed. However, the need to provide for
adequate resources for O&M has increasingly been recognized at all levels
within the Government and in the FY86 Budget statement the need for greater
provisions for O&M was acknowledged.
79.     The present system for allocating resources will, therefore, be
modified so as to create a link between the funding of new investments and
funding of operations and maintenance. A clearly identified development-
related O&M Budget component will not only heighten the perception of the
importance of O&M in the development process within the Government, but also
focus the awareness of the external donors on the need to contribute adequate
resources for this purpose. With this objective in mind, the Government plans
to introduce a revised budget presentation starting with the FY87 budget
which will clearly identify O&M provisions required for on-going and com-
pleted development projects.
80.     In order to ensure adequate O&M provision in future budgets, line
ministries and public autonomous bodies will need to (i) assess the extent of
backlog in O&M requirements; (ii) establish future O&M needs based on sector-
specific plans and standards; (iii) formulate medium-term financing plans for
O&M; and (iv) establish procedures for monitoring O&M implementation. Since
this process will be time consuming, three key sectors, i.e., BWDB flood
control, drainage and irrigation projects, national highways and education



-26-
have been selected as initial candidates. The Covernment will commission the
necessary studies to assess O&M needs in these sectors. To assist the
Government, consultants will be appointed by March 31, 1986 under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. On the basis of these studies, new arrangements
and procedures, satisfactory to IDA, for O&M management would be introduced
by not later than July 1, 1987 in the relevant line ministries and agencies.
As experience is gained in these important sectors, similar arrangements
would be extended to other sectors and agencies.
C. Debt Recording System
81.     Despite highly concessional lending, Bangladesh's debt service burden
has been increasing significantly. As noted earlier (see para. 23), the
total debt service ratio stood at about 24Z in FY85 and is expected to stay
at about this level in FY86 and FY87. Debt management is therefore becoming
increasingly important for macro-economic management. However, Bangladesh's
external aid and debt data collection and accounting systems are deficient.
There are currently about 85 aid utilizing agencies in Bangladesh receiving
credits from a variety of donors. Despite Government efforts many of these
still suffer from inadequate accounting systems and conceptual difficulties
with debt reporting. Understaffing, both in the line agencies and at the
Ministry of Finance, and fragmented responsibilities for debt reporting have
also contributed to the problem.
82.     The Bank has provided technical advice to the Government through its
regular debt missions; and there have been some improvements, such as the
increasing computerization of the debt recording system by means of
facilities provided by UNDP, the issuance of guidelines on foreign aid
disbursements, and the strengthening of agencies' reporting requirements to
the Ministry of Finance. However, in order to achieve a comprehensive and
sustainable improvement in this area, the Government has agreed with IDA on a
comprehensive work program for the Directorate of Foreign Aid Accounts and
Budget including a substantial strengthening of staff and an appropriate
training program. IDA is also considering technical assistance (possibly
financed under the IDA non-reimbursable technical assistance scheme) to help
the Government implement the reform measures.
D. Project Implementation
83.     In the case of Bangladesh, the degree of progress in implementing
development projects must be viewed in the context of a country that at
independence -- only 14 years ago -- lost much of its administrative and
governing cadre, as well as an important segment of its private
entrepreneurs. It is thus not surprising that project implementation in
Bangladesh has been hampered by a variety of constraints, including weak
institutions, limited managerial capacity, cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures, and shortage of financial resources.



-27-
84.     In FY82 and FY83 Bangladesh suffered particularly severe financial
constraints, due to the international recession, and this adversely affected
the Government's ability to provide taka counterpart funding for projects.
The consequential deterioration in implementation of IDA financed projects is
reflected in the decline in the project disbursement ratio 1/ from 16.6% in
FY81 to 12.4Z in FY83. As the severity of the financial constraints
diminished and improvements in project implementation procedures were carried
out, project disbursements picked up and the ratio increased to 14.4% in FY84
and 16.4% in FY85. Nevertheless there is considerable scope for further
improvement in project implementation; institutional and administrative
impediments rather than financial stringency have recently become the binding
constraints to project implementation during FY84 and FY85.
85.     Following a review of general project implementation constraints
undertaken by IDA's Resident Mission in Bangladesh in 1982/83, in consult-
ation with other major donors, there have been improvements in certain facets
of project implementation, e.g. in project funding release procedures,
increased decentralization of financial authority to line ministries and
agencies and faster customs clearance of imports of project equipment. More
recently, the Government has agreed with IDA on a series of action programs
designed to expedite the execution of the portfolio of on-going agricultural.
projects. During discussions leading to the proposed IPC-13 operation,
agreement has been reached with the Government on further steps to improve
project implementation including changes in the processing of the Project
Proforma (PP), strengthening of the Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
Division (IMED) of the Ministry of Planning, improvements in contract award
procedures and, in the context of wider public administration reforms, a
proposed review of the management of the civil service.
86.     Project Proforma.  Government approval of the PP, an internal
Government document, is a prerequisite to the release of ADP funds for
individual projects. The PP is initiated in the executing ministry or
agency, reviewed by the Project Evaluation Committee (PEC)2/ and finally
approved by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC).
Formal approval by ECNEC is normally a condition of credit effectiveness.
Considerable delays have been experienced in recent years in declaring
1/ This ratio is the amount of project disbursements during a fiscal year
expressed as a percentage of the undisbursed project balance at the
beginning of the same fiscal year.
2/ PEC is a technical review committee consisting of high-level repre-
sentatives of the Planning Commission, the External Resources Division of
the Ministry of Finance, IMED, the Establishment Division and the
Ministry responsible for the project. PEC's review of the PP and its
recommendations are required before the PP is formally considered and
approved by the ECNEC.



-28-
credits effective because of delays in GOB completing its PP review processes
in a timely way. In future the PP will be drafted earlier in the project
cycle and approved by the PEC before credit negotiations, instead of post-
negotiations as at present. Furthermore, formal ECNEC approvaL will be
required before credit signing.
87.     Contract Award Procedures.  Delays in the award of contracts for
equipment procurement and civil works and for the appointment of consultants
constitute impediments to faster project implementation. Such delays can
prove costly to the Government in terms of postponed benefits and inflation
in project costs. Under the IDA Supplemental Assistance Credit
(Cr. 1504-BD), the Government established a Connittee to review Bangladesh's
procedures for contract awards and for the appointment of consultants, with a
view to expediting action in these areas. The Government has delegated
greater authority to line ministries and agencies to decide upon contract
awards within prescribed financial limits, and has under consideration the
introduction of standard bidding documents, establishing a system to monitor
procurement progress through a central government agency and a program of
training for officers in ministries and agencies responsible for procurement
activities.
88.     The Government, with UNDP financing, is planning to undertake a study
of project and commodity aid utilization. As a part of this study, the
Government would employ by May 31, 1986, consultants, with qualifications and
terms of references satisfactory to IDA, to assist the Government to:
(a) review, and as appropriate, revise its procurement and contract award
procedures including delegation of increased responsibilities to the
implementing agencies; (b) prepare new or revise existing manuals setting out
procurement guidelines and procedures; and (c) design and implement a train-
ing program for its key officers and staff that deal with ministries, public
sector corporations, and implementing agencies.
89.     Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED).  Since its
establishment in 1974, IMED has expanded and strengthened its role in
monitoring of project implementation and evaluation of projects. A
UNDP-financed technical assistance project designed to further strengthen and
increase the effectiveness of IMED will be undertaken by the Government with
the assistance of consultants; this project will not only assist in introduc-
ing technical improvements, e.g. computerization, but also support IMED in
establishing and strengthening project monitoring and planning cells in line
ministries and agencies.
E. Public Service Management
90.     The 1983 Resident Mission Report on project implementation con-
straints identified low salaries and the failure to reward good performance
as one important cause for lack of motivation in the public service and
consequently for poor project implementation performance. The linkages
between salaries and incentives and the resulting impact on project implemen-



-29-
tation performance is subtle. However, there has long been evident a need to
increase salaries in order to restore the erosion in the real value of
salaries, attract and retain able staff, and eliminate the increasingly
pervasive practice of civil servants supplementing their income from a
variety of outside activities. The need for a review of public service pay
was endorsed at the 1984 Aid Group Meeting. The Covernment, therefore,
established a National Pay Commission for examining the pay structure of
public servants; and the Commission made recommendations for a substantial
upward revision of salaries and allowances. Following the Commission's
Report, the Government introduced, effective June 1, 1985, increases in the
basic wages and salaries of of the public sector ranging from about 100X for
the lower to about 50Z for the higher grades; other cash benefits were also
raised while at the same time some of the non-pecuniary benefits were reduced
especially for the higher grades. The average net remuneration increase is
estimated at around 28Z.
91.     The Government recognizes that increases in pay are not by themselves
sufficient to ensure a well qualified, properly trained and motivated public
service. The Government, therefore, plans to take additional measures to
improve the management and performance of the public service. It plans, in
particular, to strengthen and improve the capacity of its key economic
institutions and development agencies. To this end, the Government will
appoint consultants with experience and terms of references satisfactory to
IDA, to undertake a study to identify key constraints that affect the
efficiency of public administration in general and those of the key economic
ministries and development agencies in particular. The consultants would
review and make recommendations for improvements in various areas including
among others, personnel management policies (including career development
and promotion policies), staff incentives, training and organizational and
procedural improvements. The study will commence by no later than October
31, 1986. Following its completion an action program will be developed in
consultation with IDA.
PART V - THE CREDIT
92.     The proposed credit was appraised in March-April 1985.  Negotiations
took place in Washington in November/December 1985; the negotiating team of
the Government of Bangladesh was led by Dr. A.H. Sahadat Ullah, Member,
Planning Commission.
93.     The credit will provide foreign exchange to finance general imports
and will support policy and institutional adjustments which are described in
Part IV of the Report, comprising improvements:
(i) in the agricultural sector including credit policies, food
distribution policies, agricultural development institutions,
and agricultural pricing policies, all designed to further



-30-
strengthen the policy environment for faster and more efficient
agricultural growth;
(ii)  in financial planning and budgetary management and in financial
resource utilization -- so as to strengthen the effectiveness of
public sector development efforts; and
(iii)  in project implementation to assure a more expeditious and
efficient use of project aid.
94.     Eligible Commodities.  The funds to be provided under the proposed
credit would be used to finance any imports of goods other than those
specified in a short list of ineligible items. Imports directly financed
from other sources would not be eligible for IDA financing. Not more than
25% of the proceeds of the credit would be used to finance the import of any
commodity or group of commodities falling within a single 2-digit Division of
the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC), Revision 2.
95.     Procurement will be limited to goods from countries eligible under
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.  Both public and private sector
imports will be eligible for financing. Except for proprietary items, all
imports costing the equivalent of US$500,000 or more will be procured under
contracts awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB); IDA will
review procurement decisions after such contracts have been signed and prior
to the submission to IDA of the first withdrawal applications in respect of
such contracts. Non-proprietary items costing less than US$500,000 -- up to
an overall ceiling of US$50 million -- may be procured through normal
procurement procedures for such purchases, which generally include the
invitation of quotations from no fewer than three suppliers. Contracts for
commonly traded commodities may be awarded on the basis of price quotations
available from organized international commodity markets. Contracts for
proprietary items or equipment subject to domestic standardization regula-
tions endorsed by IDA may be let on a negotiated basis, but the award of such
contracts will be subject to prior approval by IDA.
96.     Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of eligible imports on the basis of fully documented
withdrawal applications prepared by Bangladesh Bank. Expenditures made prior
to cred.t signing, but after April 1, 1985, in respect of eligible imports
will be eligible for retroactive financing, up to an aggregate amount of SDR
18.7 million. The proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed within
about 18 months. Contracts less than US$5 million equivalent will be reim-
bursed through a special account.
97.     Tranching.  The proceeds of the proposed credit will be made eligible
for withdrawal in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR 112.2 million would
be released upon credit effectiveness and the second tranche of SDR 74.5
million subject to IDA being satisfied that the Government is following sound
ecunomic development policies. IDA's judgment in these matters will be based



-31-
on an exchange of views with the Government not later than August 31, 1986 on
Government's economic development policies -- including but not limited to
those policy and institutionaL improvements supported by the credit.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
98.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D. C.
January 7, 1986



cvc
I
., (SS :             ( 
I',



-33-
ANNEX 1
r A  b L F. I                                    Page  1
_                  UAINCLAIID2H           - SOCtAL INDICATORS DATA SaIK_
EIAGLADLv                            RKFWICE.E Go01S (SEIQCfL Ve93G3) 70
PST                      (NM:  kMCEXT ESTIATE) lb 
wit         ~~~~REWT            LaW [mcGEE            HIDOLK [IncE
196d/6     197A    ESTIMAT.          ASIA & PACZVIC        ASIA * PACIFc
AREA DIAMO SQ. IN)
TOTAL                              144.0       144.0       144.0
AGRICuLTURAL                        96.6       97.0        974.
CW  aP it.A 150$)                       ..          -         130.0             278.3                   1011.1
ONSt WOSUTIWM PER CArTR
(EtLOCctS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         ..        20.0        35.0              285.7                    5e6.S
Itl8 AM  VITA StATISTICS
POPI.LATON.MlD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  53491.0    68117.0    95497.0
MEMA  PFIATIOU  (2 OF TOTAL)        S.2        7.6        17.0               22.3                     35.9
POPULATION PROJECTtOUS
POPUATION IN Yea2000   LL)                               141.1
STATIIUA  PO?ILATIONl (HILL)                            310.0
rormATno. 11INIESTUI                                       i.9
POPULAT    DDESM
PER SQ. Ci.                      371.5       *73.0      663.2              173.u                    3bb.9
PER sq. WI. AGRI. LAND           565.3       702.5      955.3              353.3                   1591.2
POPULATItlt ACE STEICIU1RE (C)
0-16 uRS                         44.2        &6.2       *3.6               36.3                     35.2
15-64 THS                         52.5       51.1        53.6               59.                      57.7
65 AND ABDVE                       3.1         2.b        2.b                4.3                      3.5
POPULATION cRu11 RATE (C)
TOTAL                             1l9          2.4         2.b               2.0                      2.3
URBAN                              3.7         6.2        6.2                .31                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (pR mOUS)          46.5        4650       &1.5               27.5                     30.1
CODE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         22.5       20.9        15.7               10.2                      9.4
CIOSS RwROaurION RATE                3.4         3.4        3.1                1.7                       1.9
FPARLY PLANN5S
ACCPTOIS. ANIUAL (THOUS)           ..        373.0     1607.0 Ic.
USERS (Z OF MARRIED aOEN)          ..          ..        25.0 Td            49.4                     56.5
FOOD AErD I
INDEI OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      106.0       101.0       14.0              116.6                    124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORLES (t OF RSQUIKEMENIS)      u30         90.0       63.0              1ub.3                    115.7
PDETEIIS (CRAMS PER DAY)          43.0       45.0        42.0               60.1                     t0.3
OF  TICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0         9.0        7.0 Ie            14.4                     14.1
CHILD (A(ES 1-4) DEATH RATE         25.4       22.6        19.0                7.3                      7.2
HEALTH
LIFE  xEac. AT BIRTH (EARS)         43.5       44.9        49.6               60.5                     6u.6
NFANT mT. RATE (PER rHOUS)         59.0      150.0       132.0               69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (WPaP)
TOTAL                               -         45.0       38.0 1c           4*-2                      46.0
URA                                ..        1343        26.0 7c            77.2                     57.6
RURAL                              ..         .7.0       4o0  ToW           34.6                     37.1
ACCSS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          6.0        3.0 IC             7.8                     50.1
UUAN                               ..          .         21 0 -c 2T.8                                52.9
IURAL                                                     3.0 W              5.5                     4.7
POPULATION PER PRYSICAN              ..      8430.0      7810.0             3318.0                   7751.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              ..     76810.0    22570.0              4690.7                   2&64.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              _        7020.0 /I  *1,90.0            1039.2                   1112.1
ORBAN                              --       810.0 ir   600.0 Ic            299.1                    651.4
RDAL                                                  z ''  2347u.0 Ie    6028.2                   259b.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..          ..                52.3                     41.1
AVERA5E SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              '-          5-9 It     5.8 /c
UR8AN                              _.         6.1 1       6.1 I 7c
RURAL                               .          5.9 It     5.5 /c.
AVERAGE NO. DF PEYSONS/RO0I
TOTAL                                                   ..                ..
URIAN                              .           ..
RURAL                              ''         ''
PERCEIITAS OF OIELLLN5 1JITh RLECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..         3.5 /c
URBAN                               .          ..
RURAL



-34-                                       AN
T A N L    3A                              Page  2
RANWL=W.S11            - SOCIAL IN1tCATORS DATA SHEET
UIAMLrILSN                          REFERENCE GROUPS (EIMIGTED AVSE   I
r.rST                   (!IST KiSC8NrIT EST ET) f
RECENT            LOWI INCOE            IUDOL8 1noK
196etk     1971!. ESTDIATEi.T       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFlC
ADJUSTED ENROLtMENT RATIOS
PaxARY-:  TOTAL                  47.0        52.0       60.0              92.h                    10.7
fAL'E                 66.0        68.0       68.0              105.5                    104.4
FIALDE                26.0        34.0        51.0              79.3                     S7.2
SECONDARtY: TOTAL                 8.0       19.0        15.0              31.3                     47.8
HALE                   14.0       29.0        24.0              40.8                     5U.b
FEMALE                  1.0        8.0        6.0               21.9                     44.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)         1.0        0.8        14.3               3.2                     16.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLI                              ..         45.0       55.0 Id           38.0                     30.4
SECONDARY                         ..         26.0       21.0 77           17.4                     22.2
co_srT
PASSENCEk CARS/THOUSAND POP         ..         0.4         0.4 /c            0.9                     10.1
RADIO RECIVERS/TROUSAIID POP        ..          ..         8.1             129.8                    172.9
TV RECESITOUSAND FOP                ..          ..         0.9              19.8                     58.5
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENER
INTEREST") CIROJLATION
PER TROUSAND POPULATION            ..          ..         5.8              25.7                     65.3
CIEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      ..          ..         ..                6.0                      3.4
LAME& PORCZ
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)       19252.0    23611.0    33542.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 15.2        16.6       17.8              33.2                     33.6
ASRCULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0        86.0       74.0 /c           69.6                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                3.0        3.0        11.o              15.8                     17.9
PARTIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            36.0        34.7       35.1              41.9                     38.9
tMLE                             58.7        55.9       56.3              53.6                     50.d
FEMALE                           11.4        11.9       12.8              29.1                     26.8
ECONONIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.3         1.4        1.3               1.0                      1.1
IESU DIS5IT II
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECIVED If
HIGHEST SZ OF HOUSEHOLDS         18.3 3
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS        44.5 ii    44.1 h       ..                ..                      48.0
LNEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDs           6.9 14     8.7 h       ..                ..                       h.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS         17.9 jj    19.6 7T      ..                ..                      15.5
ESTIMATE  ABSOLUTE POVERTT INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       139.0 Ie          133.9
RURAL                             ..          ..       111.0             111.6                    151.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POERTY INCOtE
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..         ..                ..                     177.9
kURAL                             ..         ..          ..               61.7                    164.7
MblIfLAtw rur. a-   - -.L.
POVERTY INCOWE LEVEL (Z)
URN                               ..          ..        86.0 Ie           43.8                     23.5
RURAL                             ..          ..        86.0 Ie           51.7                     37.8
NOrT AVAILAMLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatiorwehated aritsetic mans. Qbverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data ad Is not uniform.
lb  Unless otbevwse noced. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Hot Recent Estimte" between 1981 and 1981.
/c  1980; /d 1984; Ie  1977; /f 1973; 15 1963; A  1967  hi 2972.
JUNE, 1985



-35-                                            An  
aw 1
Page 3
-WMW OFSOCAL INDICATO
Nooe Akhoqh the amduw from mbommayJmdPd dIhe most awtitatve andNa  it ahud aa be note tha sheyuamyam be inonsetionally
ammblie became of         _ d Ink of Nandaddad dueS.m and esae in. by dEel swam i cmheg the data  e dauta ar. meoeaa efal to
dmiber odem agalta indite _re      c and am  m oenala r m d _beawje ea u maL
The  Is oms ae (1) dt e-  eoy pomp  the Anbiset cmeuy and Q) a mouny poup with aouewhat sher av_age aci than the suny
Wetosue ubjmssny (eap for Highnme O  aporteu' _ pomwhe  Middle Inme NortAfri and Middl Et is choen  bee d er
_occuhama OhS.). in t   I    omp dat the mumps are popul   weighted aitbmetic warn for mcli indiaor nd sbwn only when mjority
of therouiri in a pom  ba dat for that Iudit  Sine the oveae orcountui among the idicatos depend an dhe availbility ordu and is not unifomn
e_Em moa be eiad in raN aveom ofo einditor to arsher Them avang   e only mnefu i comparnog th vadue on indicator at ata timeong
the Wy   ad I        _ poop.
AREA (thound sq.km.)                                          Cdru A"  RAte (per th.a d)-Number of live births in the year
Tr&a-Total aurface are comprisaja land     and inlnd waters;  per thousand or mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 19J3 data.
1960. 1970 and 19U3 data.                                     Crude Deh at (per thinsand)-Number of deaths in the year
AgricuhwuI-Eatiznaze of agricultural are  usd temporarily or  per thousand orimid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
pmanently for crops, pasurs. market and kitcben gardencs or to  Goss Repoeuwu Rae-Average number of daughters a vioman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her normal reproductivc perod if she experieces
prscnt agespecific fertility mtes usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITfA USS)-NP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
markt p1n198 callated by smae converon method as Worl         &amify Pfm*   -Acepters, Asau (trheuauds.-Annual num-
Bank Atias (1961-33 basis); 1963 data.                        ber of accptors of birth-control devices underauspces of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 famil planningprogram.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and ignite.    fand(y Plaair-fr (percesut of mul nmuum)-The peren-
petroleum  natuda ps and hydroa. nudear and geothermal clec-  tage of niarred women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
ticity) in kilograms of oil equivlent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1962 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are generally wonen aged 15-49. aldtough ror
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPUlATION AND VITAL STAISNCS                                 groups.
ToWPopSuvise. Mid-Yem (tbml-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.         FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
04n P        m (peceof eto)-Ratto of urban wo total  MefhilrCqit 1969-7Index ofFeed hAdu     Pr Cap& (1969-71- 19)-I ndex of per
..lan hp.isi.n (_ercent of torsO-Ratio of urban to total  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; diffrernt definitons of urban areas may affect cmper-  excludes animal fecd and seed for agriculturt. Food commodites
ability of data among counties; 1960. 1970. and 1963 data.    include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Apufufo hejwi.                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Ahpdaoion in yeor 2000-The proiection of population for 2000,  excluded); they comprise cereal  root crops, pues, oil seeds.
made for each economy sepately. Starting with information on  vegetabkls fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar bet livestock. and
total populaion by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rate and  ivestock products. Aggregate production or each country is based
iternational migrtion in tle bae year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projeted at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1962 data.
assumptions untl the populaton became stationary.             hr Capt Spply of Caloriers (prcen .f-regrenmren,u-Comput-
Stailcawy populaion-l one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taliy rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at repbacmemt level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a po-ulation. the birth rate is  cxclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationry population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sire was estimated on the basis of the projected charactrisics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weighis.
the populaton in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution ofpopulation. and allowing 10 pereent for
rate to replacenent klveL                                     waste at household levek 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
opua        Mo mm    s the tendency for population growth to  Per Coos  5    qf  t    (Ip pe AryJ-Proton content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of foott per day. Net supply of rood is defined
achieved; that is. even aftcr the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of'a population in the year i is measured as  provide for minimum allowances or 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year , given the assumption that fertility remains at replacc-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than thosc of
meat lcvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
hfaktima Dentity                                              average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per qAmk.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarc) of total are; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.                hr Capita htes Suppy Fror  Anis  n PIle-Protein supply
Per sqikm. agriculmwuo Led-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960.1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Popmktin Age St run  (pertwr-Children (0-14 years). work-      iMd (ages 1-4) Detk Rate (pertrsand.s-Number ofdcaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Papuiaa ieur Growth Rate (pereeatD-raral-Annual growth rates of  from life tables 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
totl mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
hppauies Growth Rtie (perceuty-an-Annual growth rates         Life Expectancy at BAr (yers)- -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would livc if prevailing pattcrns of mortality for all people



-36-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
at ut time of of it birth wer to sty th same throughout its lie  APff-wher RPio - pnonwy. and xecndar-Total sudets en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolld in pimary and soday  kv   divided by numbers of
1    N a Mwaty e (par   mn)-m            ofinfantwhodie    teachers in dhe Jcorespoding 6kvels
befomc reaig ne ayar of ae per thousnd livc birts in a given
ycur. 196  90. I m aid IM1 data                               CONSURMFION
A   S*  Wow (r       .o    - I  nk        bm"C   Oz -  huevew C       (r          _ppuadauJ-Paue           casn com-
al-Nbr 7of popli (totaL  ban. ad rural) wih reasonable        pnsc motor cs sn kw than eigbt person; ecludes ambul-
acu to safe watr supply (inludes tatdac  wated or             ances, herses and mailtary vehic.
unesce but uncontminatd wat  mbs that from  protectedypes of ns
boeoles. spring and sanitary wells) as pperetages of their rch-rtaood stsgnerapubliperhAnd of population;
tive popu_laons In an urban area a public fountain or  udpost  exclude, un-linsed  t cves in countris nmd in years when
obcted not m tan 200 mn s finm a house mny bc onIdered        rgisration ou  rdio selsas in eect;  data for rn yars may
as being witin resnawle  m   of dtt house In rua a            not be comparadbl  since mast countries abolished lcnsin ay
reaoable accas would imply dta the bousewife or mnterbs of the
housoid do not have to spend a disrporionat part or the day   TvRee  s(peremi mpeulniud-TVorvrsforbroadcast
in fdtchi  the findly s water necd                            to genucal public per thousand populaion; eadudes unlicensed TV
Aceess to Enron DxWmd (parent of) or fidesq - eot4 ar.  _     reccvem in countres and in yeas when rgosttion of V sets ws
_  vruI-Number of people (total. urba, and runal) srved by
eacreta disposal as pactagles of their respectve populatiotts  G ff UW- Cwcaam. (pzr uhlosmdpwpuladia)-Shows the aver-
Excta disposal may include the collaecion and disposaL with or  age circuation of -daly genral inte-st newspaper:" defined as a
wihout eatmuent. of hnw exataa and wastc-water by water-      Perodicl Publication devotd primarily to recording Snal news.
bonse sytms or the us of pit privies and similar nsWlans.     It is cotidered to bc -daily- if it appears at kast frur times a week.
stipulatku per Physkiua-I'opulation divided by number of pnc-  Cina Aa_a AaunAae per Capi pw Yew-Based on the
tising physicians quaified trom a medical school at university level.    number or tickets sold during the year. inluding admissions to
APqu111i p    wer N-saI  Pow-Pulation divided by number or    drive-n canemas and mobile uniLs
practicing male  nd rmale graduate nmuse  assstant nurses.
practcal nurscs and nuring auzilaancm                         LABOR FORCE
A_p - ,      Hmp ) d Drd.-gagsl    md   dl ation             Te. Lahe F-c (theusu)--Economnially active pesons, in-
(total urban,  d ruraD divided by their respective number of  dluding armed forces and unemployed but cxduding houswive
bospiulbedsavsib&einpubbcandpnivatcagosWaid                   students. etc.. covering population oa all aVs. Definitions in
hospitls and reabtation centers. Hospitals are                varoucsnot comparb  1960, 1970 an  93 da
permanently staed by at lesst one physc   Esablishanents prov-  -   (pere-0-Fcoale latbor fOrce as pcentage oa total bbor
iding principaly usAodl care ae not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
howevc inucude healt  and medical cnters n  prmanently staffed  Agricmkw  (parens--Labor force in arnming. foestry, hurting
by a physian (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor fomr. 1960. 1970 and 19f0
wich offer in-patient accommodation and provide a iinited range  data.
atmedical tacalties.                                          ImiY (percent)-Labor force in mining, consruction. manu-
A.ifsim  per Hospil led-Total number of admissions to or      tacturing and eectricity. water and gas as pecentage of total labor
disdcas ftrm hospital divided by the number of beds.          force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pnr    t  R   (penerW)afA   .-Ji mdftas-P         aion
HOUSING                                                       or activity rtes are computed as totaL . mals and female labor force
Am-e  zre of Hoi-ehM (pes   p-r &-s1lwMD-wa. wham,            as pern tages of totaL male and fcmale population of all ages
anAr   -A household consists of a  oup ofindividuals who share  rcspectivdy 1960. 1970. and 193 data. Thes zse basc'f on ILOs
liing quarters and tbeir mauin masK  A boarder or lodger may or  parlicipation artes reflectingag-x sruetureofthe popH-1- zon, and
may nol be included in the household for statistical purposes.  log imne trend. A few estimtes are from national sources.
A-we  Nmher of Paw= per Reas-4ora, Urbn. mwd rrl -            &Eou.c Depeqdeucy JRaio- - Ratio ot population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings, respectively. Dwellings aclude
non-pemaen  t stuctures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTR1BUTION
Ptrote of Dieaepgs 'wt Elecar*if -toral. orbJ. and rural      Peatage of ToJra Dispobl lracm   (bet i ens aJ kindj--
Conventional dwellings with letricity in living quartersas percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by toual house-
tage of total urban. and rural dwellngs respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4used Emwmiv Rais                                            The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
R*unnY sDhool - rfo. i,ale and femal- Gross total, mak and n  evels a-nd should be interpreted with considerable caution.
Gemalc enrollment of all ages at the primary lvd as pecentages of  E,rinaed Absohte rwerry  onic Level (USS per  _pita)-arhiu
respective prnnary school-ag populations. While many countries  and rural- Absolute poverty incomet kvd is that income levd
consdr prinsary school age to bc 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaily adequate dict plus essential
differecs in country practics in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirennents is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universl  Eii ed Rehafw Porerty Inow Leftd I USS per capa -wbae
educatio  gross enrolment ray ec  100 peznt since sotne      a*d rural-Rural rdative povertv income Icvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the rountrv's standard primary-school  average per capita personal incomne of the country. Urban lvel is
age                                                           dernved from the rural levcl with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondry school - otafl mak wad fenak-Compured as above,    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved p-  Etjmared P%pularsie Below Absoite  vety laconw Lewd (per-
mary insrucion; provides general vocationaL or teacler raiuing  cear)-wbnu ad rura-- Peicent of population (erban and rural
inst_ictions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absolute poor.-
nce ourss are generally excluded.
Voaai  E iaroDner (percm  of serondJry)-Vocational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
Sions include tchaical industriaL or other program which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departmts of seconary institutions.                               Junc 1985



Pee1tium: 100@.06 .111m (19l5)
W Ver Capital 0*130 (19o)
_mt
cinilhem V58          Aw" Almost lecrae CZ)                tsre of CW at lalht Prices (2)
s  et prce)                (in eaa Cie mt  uric")
Indicatar                  1726          UIfrlWFnMZI  E _    UA.M   n .UU                    nM _me   n7e  UK   E_  E
Gross dotic product /A          11.754            4.0     -0.4       5.5     3.4        10.1  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   LO 100.0 10.      .0
Agrieultar. A                 5.522            3.1     -1.3       L3      2..         59.9   54.9   62.5   53.4   46.7  46.9  48L   43.8
Rutty La                       1.4I3            7.9     -3.2       6.4     3.6          7.7    L.    11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1  12.0  11.9
lervice  IA                    4.749            4.9      3.3       Li      4.1         30.1   30.0   26.2   34.0   39.   40.0  39.9  39.3
Cem.eupt.ie                     11.352            4.4     -0.7       4.0     2.2         92.4   92.$   9L.2   9L0  103.4  983   00.0  93.2
Cro.. daOtic I   tnet           1.002           10.9    -10.9       2.0     0.7          4.9   11.3    Li   16.7   13.9  14.4  14.2  14.9
Uperts t ofed. A uf.             1.114            0.8    -11.7       3.4     7.4         10.0     .3    3.0    7.5    7.7    L5        .5    Lg
Imports of goods  & afa          2. 55            La8    -12.0      *.1      1.1          9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.2  23.2  20.7  21.0
na mational neulag                 I"            26.5    -17.7      22.1    19.7          0.9    4.1    1.0    4.0   -1.0   6.0   3.5   5.5
Aut
(millie.                              C_ooitiom of K.rchei Trade 12)
in crre t prices                               (i-p curret prices)
P7s                      mlU  En   ELK   UK  U    ULM   U
"goc~~~nA ma ILna3
N.rheaud    expo                   932                     l100.    100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Primry L                         296                       4.3    31.5   29.7       3.9    33.3    31.9    31.S
Ramafacturg                      636                       s8.2      8.5   70.3    63L       44.7    68.1    G82
rch_mdi_ imparts                 2.633                      100.0   1e0.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Fewd                             6s                        47.6    4.4   33.4    14.0    15    21.0    23.5
Pttrlea                          367                        3.9    11.1   14.2    21.3    197        15.1    13.9
Haebiney & eqaiment              616                       12.8    11.5   23.0    23.9    29L5    23    23.4
Otber                          1.032                       35.7    33.0   27.4    40.6    31.3    35.4    39.2
ms   MS  mi7  mi  niT7                             UK 7             EUK  UK   UK   EN
1l1CS AU1 T11 OF TRW 113  (192273-100)
CM Deflator                                 140.6   240.7  10.1   177.2   203.6   216.3   252.7    267.3   2M9.9   331.4   385.7   425.4
-=eca_  rue CU/bUS)                           7.S61   v59 14.3521  IS.467 15.1215 25.22    15.4777  16.3447  20.0400 23.7800 24.9437 25.934
KcL price index                             104.5   119.0   103.4   103.9   126.5   160.9   1989    173.7   147.7   Is1s   175.8   203.5
iport Price lodex                          164.9   17V.    10.2   173.2   148.7   208.9   234.9    263.9   259.9   237.4   223.4   213.7
Texas of trad  isdex                         72.1    63.4    57.4    61.1    75.0    77.0    567          44.6    54.6    85.1    73.       91.6
As 2 of Cl?
nad currene      nui.an)
FIe rKn4
current reve_er                                   5.4     9.5      10.5      11.6    10.7      9L.    10.0
Carron ePadie.                                    4.5     7.6       7.7       a.4      3.5      8.0     3.3
c*rrat aerple (C) or deficit l-                  4.9    .1.7    * 2.          3.2    .2.2    .1.6    41.7
Capital expeniture                                3.1     S.5      13.3      12.4    11.3      9.3      9.2
iarega finanin                                    2.4     6.0       32        LO    11.4       8.       6.6
mo6-70      F%075D nt-m            zz a
cgerot ret (t )                                  4.2        -0.4          5.1        3.7
CG  pr VWcita growth  rate (Z) Le                1.5        -3.0          0.7        1.2
..e-t omialeb
m.. ot appicasbhe
^ At _iet pricee.
Mor jute. tee, a_i fiah.riee.
Covermmt data send in calcul-ecie.
January 2, 1986



-36 
BAlANCE Of PATNE8N. UTREAL CAITTAL ANUD M3T
(mllien U5. ie eurreat pricam)
BAlANCE OIP PAYNENT
WWI  IM  fil  Eil  fil  KR   URt  Eit  ILK   fl   EL
net xports of goods                             -1.059    -903    -4O    -159    -946  -1,650  -1,822  -1,946  -1,623   -1.542   -1,701
Exports of goods                                 344     372      405     490     610      722     711     626      686      811      932
Imports of goods                              -1.403  -, 27 5    -85  -1,349 -1.556  -2.372  -2.533 -2,572  -2.309  -2.353  -2.633
Net exports of services                             21     - 7     -29      -32     -28        4      15     -70    -112       -33      -46
Workeru  remittmaces                                35      29       60     113     143      210     379     424      628      627      W7
Current aecount balance                         -1fM Z     8         9             -831  -1 435 -1 42z   -1z592  -1107   _-9f8  zl270
Direct private invest t                                      .       .               ..       ..                                .
HLT ltoas (net)                                    498     497     238      398     420      58      513     505       76      563      360
Grants & grant-like flows                          30      245     265      394     551      392     584     6R       709      697      701
Otber capital flow. (net)                          274       a       17     -39     -16      144     307     255      164      -Q       -65
Change in reserves (- - increase)                 -151      53    -11        25    -124      119      24     127    -236      -11       144
InLernatLooal reserves (and of period)             266     213     294      269     393      271     249     122      358      539      395
Reserves as moths of imports of oat year           2.5     2.9      2.6     2.1     2.0      1.3     1.2     0.6      1.8      2.8      1.5
Actual
n75  n76    n~F77    nY7s    n79    neoO   rr=        nZ    n83          8
CtWS DISSUSUIKTS
Total grosa disbursements                     519      563     268      402     476      685     627     60       604     385
Concesioaol                                 458      533     244      382     460     665      610     604      541     366
Bilateral                                 343      390     14       243     216     337      356     369     272      188
MA                                       112       128      86       88     153     152     170      158     190      103
other m,ltilateral                          3       15      14       51      91    176        84      77      79       75
Non-conessiajo  l                            60       30      24       20      16      20       17      76       63      19
Bilateral                                  45       16       6        3       4      16        3       7       28       4
IBID                                       -         -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Other motilateral                           -        I       -        -       -       -        1      31      17        6
Private                                    15       13      18       17      12        4      13      38      23        9
urr DISBUISMENTS                                  498      497     238      365     420      635     577     640      530     321
DEBT OUSTMADIN
Total outstanding and disbursed             1.355    1.797   2,053    2,473  2,853   3,173   3.637   4.133   4,678   4.962
Official                                 1,233    1,6B9   1.940    2,394  2.775   3.099   3.572   4.045   4.578   4.*0
3mD                                        55       55      55        55     55      55       55      55      55       55
IDA                                      255       33      466       554    707      S59  1,027   1,18L  1.366   1,463
Otber                                     923    1.254   1.419    1,75  2,013   2.185   2.490   2.809   3.157   3.352
Private                                     122      108     113        79     78      74       65      88     100       92
Undisbursed debt                            1.019      948   1.016    1,309  1,825   1.830   2,150   2,666   2,817   3.263
DEUT SERVICZ
Total debt service                             31       B8       59       69     93       92     101      98     135      131
Amrtization                                  21       66      30        37     56    -50        s0      40      74       64
Interest                                     10       22      28        32     37      42      51       58      61       67
IBD debt ervice                                 0        2       3         3      4       4        4       4       3        3
IDA debt service                                1        2       3         4      4       6        7       8        8       7
Average interest rete
Official                                    1.8      1.2     1.3       1.2    1.3     1.2      1.6     1.8     1.0      1.3
Private                                     2.3      8.9     7.2       6.2    6.1     6.9    10.8    L56        L6      5.3
Average mturity
Official                                   35.1     42.9    38.6      3L5   36.2    34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5    40.5
keivate                                    15.3     11.3    11.0       9.5   14.8    19.2      7.7    11.7    12.9      7.3
BAN GROUP Exosuz (2)
IBxD DDDltotal l D                              4        3       3         2      2       2        2       1       1        1
DRD dishuraemetsjtotal disbursements            0        0       0         0      0       0        0       0       0        0
UDM  debt serviceltotal debt service            0        2       6         5      4       4        4       4       2        2
IDA DDtotal DOD                                19       21      23        22     25      27       28      29      29       29
ID4 diaburaeaeta/totai disbursements           22       23      32        20     33      23      28       26      35       28
IDl debt serviceltotal debt  *rwice             3        3       5         5      4       6        7       8       6        5
sml  mTRusr                                           At June   1983       I3BRDrDA  MDING (At Juse 1984)   rURD    IDA
Naturity structure of debt                                               Outstanding S Disbursed             54.9    1.463
Maturities due within 5 years                          16.1            Undiabursed                           -      1.265
Mentrities doe within 10 years                         380             Outstanding, incl. Undisbhrsed      54.9    2.728
Interest structure of debt
Interest due within I year                              1 8
a not avilable
Janury 2, 1986



-39-                                ANNE 11
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH la
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AdD IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1985)
Amounts
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million /b
Number    Year  Borrover                Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 38 credits fully disbursed                      54.90 1,315.66        -
527       1975 Bangladesh  Ashugauj Fertilizer                -      62.00       0.40
542       1975 Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                 -      21.00       2.79
725       1977  Bangladesh  Nuhuri Irrigation                 -      21.00       0.58
7 87      1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II               -      21.00       0.78
864      1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00       8.05
890      1979 Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00       2.07
912      1979 Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00      11. 87
921      1979 Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -         32.00       8.91
934      1979 Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -       28.00       4.42
955      1979 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
YFlood Control                  -      25.00      11.40
964      1979 Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00       4.07
1001       1980 Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II         -      20.00       7.73
1023       1980 Ba:igladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      29.00        8.48
1032       1980 Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation       -      20.00      10.45
1042       1980 Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation             -      11.00       4.89
1054       19J  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -        40.00      19.49
1065Lc     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III          -      35.00      10.83
1091jc    1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development          -      85.00       2.69
1096Lc     1981  Bangladesb  Fertilizer Transport              -      25.00      10.15
1117/c    1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II          -      50.00        9.37
1124Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV           -      16.00       2.76
1140Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubevells                    -      18.00       9.86
1147/c    1981 Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -      40.00       7.87
1184/c    1982 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II         -      27.00      20.32
1204Lc     1982 Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer         -      15.00      13.56
1205jc     1982 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -        30.00      25.46
1215Lc     1982 Bangladesh  Extension & Research II            -      27.00      17.84
1247Lc     1982 Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -      60.00      51.43
1254/c    1982 Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power              -      92.00       84.25
1262/c    1982 Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -      40.00      19.62
12871c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                 -      68.00      54.40



-40-
AMN  II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million /b
Number    Year   Borrower               Purpose              Bank      IDA    Und isbursed
1301Lc     1983 Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                 -       6.00       2.90
131 8,    1983 Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -       7.80        6.70
1321kc    1983 Bangladesh  Telecomunications III              -       35.00      26.21
1349/c    1983 Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                    -      12.00        9.29
1357/      1983 Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -      28.50      25.14
13846      1983 Bangladesh  Rural Development II               -     100.00      86.24
1396kc    1983 Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -        810        7 21
1399k     1983 Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -       20.00     18L28
1402k Le  1983 Bangladesh  Petroleum Ezploration Promotion  -          23.00     18.69
1440kc    1984 Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance         -        25.00     25.21
1455/c    1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research       -        24.50    24.79
1467k      1984 Bangladesh  Water Development Board           -        41.50     39.40
1471k    1984 Bangladesh  Import Program XII                  -       140.00     19.54
1477kc    1984 Baugladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -        23.00     22.88
F022k      1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II        -        22.00     21. 93
1490 /e  1984 Bangladesh  Techaical Education                 -        36.00     35.40
1504-0 /c  1984 Bangladesh  SAP  725 BD                       -        10.00      9.28
1504-1 Lc  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                       -         5.00      4.24
1504-2 k  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                        -         7.00      6.05
1504-3 Lc 1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                        -         8.00      7.34



-41-
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Danmlgdesh (continued)
Aouate
Loan or                                                         (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              8$ Nillioo /b
Number    Year   Borrower               umons               Jbo}      IWikubrWefd
1574&  d_ 1985 Bangladesh  Second Primary Zducation           -       70OO      7LOO
1586/c /t  1985 Bangladesh  Second Gas Da.elopment            -      110.00   110.00
15V/c      1985  Bangladesh  Flood Rehabilitation             -       30.00    28.68
159fc I a  1985 Bangladesh  Third Flood Control & Drainage __-        4JL00   4AL
Total                                                   55.40  3,133.29 1,128. 9
of which repaid                                        1.45      L71      -
Total now outstandim                                    53.45  3L124.58
Amount sold                                            0.00      0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          53.45  3 124.58
Total undisbursed                                                        L12L &9
La- The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Ezecutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
_b The original principal of credits under replemisomts 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
fc Credits funded out of IDA 6th and 7th Replenisheents denominated in 9DEs. The
principal anounts of fully disbursed Credits are U.S. dollar equivalent at
negotiation as shown in the President's Reports; the uadisbursed amounts are
calculated at the rate of exchange in effect On September 30, 1985.
Lid Not yet effective.



-42-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Sept. 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                                              Amounts in US$ Million
Year           Oblisor                Tvpe of Business              Loan   Ecuity    Total
1969    Karnaphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   rulp & 2aper Products          5.60    0.63     6.23
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                  1.20      0.36     1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company                        1.05     1.05
1985     Bata Shoe Co.                  Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.             and Tannery                  3.28     0.51      3.79
1985     Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                        Capital Market               1.95      0.17    2.12
Total Rross commitments                                            12.03      2.72    14.75
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales            6.26      0.63     6.89
Total now held by IFC                                                5.77     2.09     7.86
Total undisbursed                                                    5.77     0.08     5.85



-      -43-                           ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRTEENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Sunolementarl Credit Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
Pre-appraisal Mission                  October 1984
Appraisal Mission                      March/April 1985
Negotiations                           November/December 1985
Date of Effectiveness (planned)        March 31, 1986
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
1. Bank of Bangladesh to establish annual minimum agricul-
tural credit recovery rates satisfactory to IDA and
review progress at regular six-month intervals
(paragraph 64).
2. Government to increase food ration prices to reduce
food subsidies by about Tk 0.6 billion in FY86 and unit
subsidies to levels satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 67).
3. Government (i) by April 1, 1986 to review fertilizer
prices in consultation with IDA and make such adjust-
ments as may be required to eliminate economic sub-
sidies by July 1, 1986; and (ii) thereafter, review
wholesale fertilizer prices no less frequently than at
quarterly intervals and adjust prices, if needed, at
least twice a year to ensure that there is no economic
subsidy on such sales (paragraph 72).
4. It is proposed that the proceeds of the credit be
eligible for withdrawal in two tranches. The first
tranche of SDR 112.2 million would be eligible for
withdrawal on credit effectiveness and the second one
of SDR 74.5 million, subject to the Association being
satisfied, following an exchange of views with
Government, that the Government is following sound
economic development policies. The exchange of views
is to take place by August 31, 1986 (paragraph 97).



M~~
I |lW W~iX
6~~~
i 6lj,'''iil',l0Ii



AMnEU III
Page 3
Sector nd Polic- Issues                Measure Taken/To be Taken
[v) Credit Recovery Tarnets             Government is comitted to attain full recovery of
agricultural credit as early as possible. To this end the
following interim average recovery target (dues and
overdues) have been set: 50Z for FY86, 60Z for FY87 and
65Z for FY88. Average annual credit recovery targets
to be monitored by Government. Progress to be reviewed
every six months.
(vi) Measures to improve credit         Instructions were issued to local Goverment officials
recovery                           to protect Bank staff in discharging their duties.
Measures were taken by Bangladesb Bank to improve intra-
bank and inter-bank information system on defaulters, and
names of major defaulters publicized in rural areas.
Commitment to increase the number of certificate officers
charged with collection from defaulters and better staffing
of Certificate Court staff.
Progressive reductions of new lending by rural branch
offices with persistently poor credit recovery record.
Bangladesh Bank will conduct a study aimed at improving
the capacity of agricultural credit institutions (staffing.
training, etc.) to improve credit recovery. TOR to be
completed by July 31. 1986 and the study would commence by
October 31, 1986. This will be a follow-up to the
USAID financial rural finance study.
(vii) Abolition of SAecial               SACP has been abolished.
Aaricultural Credit Proaram
(SACP) ad replacement with         Government will establish Agricultural and Rural
credit guarantee fund              Guarantee Fund (ARGF) vith participation of Bangladesh
Bank. the banks and Government. Operational guidelines
for establishing ARGF to be formulated by Bangladesh
Bank by June 30, 1986 and to be discussed with MDA
before implementation.



-u6-                                                          un     ss
e  4
Sector and Policy lssues              Measurae TakenlSo be TSken
2. Public Fooderain Procurent    (i) Reduction in subsidie  nuder          figb-lel National Co_mittee appointed to review
and Distributio n  vace  PrOS)      Public Fooderain Distributio       PFDS and subsidy policy. A dated action progrm to
Sstem (PIS)                        gradually eliminste foodgrein subsidy will aged   with
IDA by March 31, 1986.
Coverent to reach agreemet with IDA by March 31. 1986 on
a foodgrain ration salem price adjustmnat in the second
balf of Fi8 to: ti) reduce unit subsidies to a leel
satisfactory to iDA; Cii) reduce budgetary subsidies by
Tk 0.6 billion.  In addition, an   gree t between
COB sad IDU, as a condition of Second Tranche relea-e.
on further maure  to reduce by Dscember 31* 1936
unit subsidics to about half of the FM   leel.
3. Sau*ladesh Asricultural               Review of the future role         COb will employ cos ultants to undertake a study to reiew
Develooneut Coroora tion (DC)        of BDC                            the function, operational role and organization of MDC
in the light Goverment policies in faor of greater private
sector involveent in the distribution of agricultural
inputs and equipment to farmers. TO bhve ben agreed to with
IDA. The study would be completed by Novmber 30, 1986. Reports
findings would be discussed with IDA and a dated action program
would be drawn up in consultation with IDA.
COD has already fully privatised retail trade in fertilizer
and bha now agreed that private wholesale distributors be
permitted to off-lift fertilizer directly from fertilizer
fectories mad certain nominated inLed depots  in addition
to LUC Primary Distribution Points (PDPe).
4. Fertilizer Pricine                    Elimination of economic           Vbolesele fertilizer prices for all categories increased
subsidy of wholesale              by 31 - of July l* 1985. Further increaes am of.
fertilizer orices by              October 1, 1985 of U for urea. 102 for TSP and 121 for MP.
July 1. 1986.
Government has undertaken Ci) to review, in consultation
with IDA, fertilizer prices again by April 1. 1936 and take
further adjustments. as necessary. to elite remi
economic subsidies by - later than July 1. 1986 and
-ii) thereafter, review wholesale fertilizer prices no lees
frequently than at quarterly intervals end adjust prices not
less than twice each fiscal year. as neeseary, to prevent
recurrence of subsidy.



am
-47-
letor and Poeli  Ies                     e
II.  tse ina of  pomie
Mmaaest C laetitw
1. Budgstary Plain  and                    r                               A   cpbmeive survy of the Fis1al Iqioriug Bystm  in
flgggg5a                             and  onio              itthe NHtiuonl Board of  oae (NU) vs udertaka by a
lU Tmo in Narcb/April 1985. Tm has prepared r-eprt
ad      is taking measures to impinmet recane_4ations
to further imve revenue collection  ad ta  admcintration
And .trengthe US's accounting ype_te.
on expeniture, Iterniniaterial Committee eetablishad
in Ministry of Ffeece to reiw the procesues of data
collection. compilation ad evaluation   boa uhitted its
report. Oe te beaij of the Cmitte<a cmort a
action prgrar by CGOD acceptable to IDA, would be formlated
by Narcb 31, 1986 and implementation to begin in the final
quarter of Vm.
(ii) Hniti-Year Indcet Planezina       'Shadow ASP  for Fn87 and F8 will be prepared by GO0.
together witb rzined *etiteo  for flU, by Jary 31s  19i .
An ongoing flU technical aesistance project is helping GOB
inprove capability for ediu-term renourco forecasting.
2. Allocetion of Resources for                                             COB plan  to introduce in the IT87 Bodget clarly identifi d
Operation ad Maintenance (OMN)                                         Wl requir_met- for onoing and past delop_ut projects.
To ensre adequate Gol provisione in future bhdgets. FM3
will undertake studioe in three key sectors:  31   flood
control, drainage and irrigation projecta *national higbways
mad education. GOB consultants to be appointed by March 31,
1988 under TOM acceptable to ID. Studina will "same backlo
of requiremts* prepare sector-specific 013 plas and
standards, foralate media-term finacing plane  for O8K
end establish Ogt implantation msitorig syst. These
studies are to fore basis for OIM smog t in the
public sector.
3. Debt  ecordin  inca                                                     GO3 has agreed with rDA on a compreheeive work progra for
the Directorate of Foreign Aid Accouto sd Iniget. Ministry
of Finac-e including a substantial strenthening of staff ad
rining prra. IDA my spport the progra  by secondin
one staff under uou-reimbursable TA.



4. Pralect Imiis.ie()imic   mm.*fi                                            umadertoe amend project ilesommutios rods. ja I3821
in ce.tltimd with ofthe deosire US initiated ..bse.gmt imgff*we-
wasts imcldims Agj3jn     projct fudmp roe. prodr-   awe
dmintlustSe  of _ismmsl atherity to LUmoe al _itriswe
qincim md fstr customs destin  of projct ogiPr t *mport.
_ovemmt. in cae.ltaeM with M. be  Ismitd a
des Of MtSs. IoIn to expedito imlmmt.ti. of
-* striculturol projects.
ii) Proiet cProefom CPP)            an Flow to laft Pr erlier Is pojct cycle mod appood
by Prject BraJustis, Comittee CM) bore rshe  the
after cedit u_ptistiom.
(iii) Cotract Ard Procedwro           Ullr -   wupl_m l hmointce e Credit (Cr. 1304-r). an
establiubed Camittee to roie  cetact mod prceds.
COusruAeat b1 Islagated greeter  utboerity to e miatri_s
sd ageeci.
Cmsltmtt willt be  _1oyed by Ney 31. 1M  to seint
CGo (i) to rewse contract s     p     u. imcludift
dolaetiom of i_erosno  rompousibilities to 1_lnutiss
egeeie; (iL) prpere mm nuI  of procedurs; _
Ciii) d'i.  ,1_mplesst * traiuia  proaro.
(is) Itrsqtheiu  of th               A IM-fimeced ML prject _slrrta    by CB with
linlinotmtino Ibuiteri n  ze m   assistace of me-oltsta  in to beip       intreise tmcbeicel
slustiom Divisios (tDUo  is    imprevorne (e.g. co.pmtsriLstae) _d establish mud
the fPmludg Ministry             sceegthe  project meitoring md piowmig cells in line
inistrie  ad  gescise.



S. Vuh15| S.~wIc. ~u~mt                                       m    mbliad b tM   a btlimi VW C.im  Cmi a
3m, CINIILUSIa fc dbs LAud Iaridsiaa) 'SAab gamam-m
mubmImSal qmwd svid.. of eswlwce md afiema.
UitLw  _m  1A Am. 1alm, ___rin.. of _UU  mc.
mm-ea. TAU" asmmlof atahebtiam  in arm-paiey
b_ait.. e.puiaUy En hEna dama. _mw  Ea
xammraciet  I La uin    ebat RU.
arb.-La,mma  zupca.mensii  to zwgin poubg aewait.
asufnut psileiss Sc i&-aim imacmais baud -
P. in.   -rute  mwi  -;Z     ormas dawklpomet.
emLittum am awakam.w to massut it to be qpshtad
an a eastita. .1 seemed eiambe relinew.
lrmemtm will apista imma.ltmot to wodumabae a taip
to Ideaify key eamnatriautebut effet do. afficiascy .5 public
adimatade  . in $mana Mi thus ofab tha acm-cd  iuatiaaug
md dmlaoe-t a_eim in pauticuiurw. lb  canamt    wl
xawi ad mbe xasmmmuzisms foe iwcainaa alakidia
pe-asstammal dsnmz peRuicL Cimcl.iiu wmr. development
ad pummeL.. pRouiti). asun iuceivaa. mdaiai  ad  
acsmiutieme a  pueaiselw  uwiam       VW. ataly will
-emm by Octabac 31. RUE ad. f.LIauSai Its caletimes
mu atiss pcrorm .111 be devmelop" in coommteties w ifth.
Ann
_ _ _t~~~~~331



a-             aK
Creit                       -D. of                       Justifiectin for                                 fleter specific A Policy
lo.    Aomost    Aprp sl    Diaburset                    ogram  iaadir                                   le*m Addresed
345      0S$543      11172          03175          Quick disbereing reconatruetion  saistance        Eon.
folloing a cycloe ad the imdependoc
strugle, for sector   1odly Wfiad
(agriulture. indut ry. trmeprt &  er-
mietionsr  caetrectis) sod inolvin  -
extaesive list of impoted goods (emedity-
oriented * to restore prodectian.
1    458e       US$551      02/74            03176        Finsuciag of iport reqirtemat of priority         Opening of a dialogu  with o_est on
iedaatries to improwe their capaiqty util-        ideatifiad defiscieaies in pricin. distri-
ination. provid        untp tuitia  ad    batihe _d impart eatro  policie  in the
increas  agriCUltural productio.  Priority       industrial sector.  Cdme.eia of a study fr
criteria:  sprt oriented, esiatial eue_r   the astabliskent of mew procede. fhr imprt
goods, tranport sad cetctris  materials           controls sad bedgatieg. ACtie  taken to C aut
indastriss; fertiliser; raw mterials, spoes    rapid disbursoemt of D1 feud.
ad balsacing eqaipusat for fertiliser  _an-
facture.
Ill   515       US$752     L1/74             1276        Improvement of cspacity utilistiso  in            Cevr t reluctat to m_dertak  a omit-
iustry by fi4ncing higb priority imports,         went to rectifwy La iciencien in priciag sad
List of eligible industries mare werrwly          distribstin policies in the lAdustriml sector.
defined.                                          Necasae of tbe crisis situstis. - secific
coaditisas regarding policy issus wee attached
to Cr. S15. lecreasing appristioe of the
ipct of lack of weagrial ad techeicat
talents. lack of atLsowy and accountability
in peblic saterpriss. ie!fficiest we *tag t
ectrol Sastes. wek procur_ent. inadute
promutive .minteance* poor esprt mrketiqg.
labor disputes and power shortages en the
perforomane of Jute, Industry. Identification
of sin.lar probla afflictin  otbhr _ctera
as wit, in particular Cette  teatile industry
mad tsaeria.
Alleviation of bhlance of poywnnts difficulties through rapid trzzfer
of resources has bee  an objective come to all import progra  credits



Credit                      -Dta of                        atlfgicatiom  for                          Sater Upncitfe & Policy
so.    Aumt        Approval 4iohorsmt                  P erm    _odi   lemmas Adiemad
IT     571      3loC         10/175        1077         UEfrt to address  truct.rul LBsou   ia           Comodeajo. of a worldt  *m study for JWte
juts sd textle *aeter  to feotor thai            products. Utrsthoiag  of Production pleami
leg-tax  daveiopeut.                             AS   inirol g.stioo  Of the Uagadeahb Juti
MLils Corporaiom (halding fombany); institution
af umanragul chaagaa 5.aitLatiom of sactin.. to
Improve mill managemet. prcductivity. mair
t*mer  rkwting  qulity castrol and fenaial
markting. Agre4 et rachad for. * rie  of
satin. to Improve Bill productivity and to mae
oruaisstieual cabne  in the totile Imduatry.
*      575/     3 l8$50K     12176        03/7f           Sam  - iu Cr.591                                   llow-up on iLuae  addreased umaer Cr. 591.
Iatrodocti_o at luitial m"ures to deal uLb
financil mamset (a.g. capital retruc-
toing. cook flo  projectiLo) in the Jute
industry. Alaso *improveoent Lu Institutionul
arraugonta (e.g. creatie  of - export
inopectio  servica).  Zs the tatile iadoatry.
{oitiation of a pro-feasibility study to
e*tablisb the patmtial for local production of
me-made fihors sd a atudy of the officieany of
haudlomilll powe lme  vs. largr mills:
aitiatico Of Programs to improe  mill of ficieq
ad opera prts osnufacture.  In the Pulp sad
paper indoatry. imLtiatiof arttc  toward
formulating - sctiom progro to improwa the
erating afficincy of soveral mills. including
the ssooss-mt of market coditious for variomo
products.
VI    752      a338s5        11/77         03/            Sa mar in Cr. 5911676/676-1.                    Sovelopme_ t of *peific masuro  for oystautic
aill maintooce md opera pert. procureomt.
rdactiom Of rev mtaa ci eoat  out inpr_omgt
of production off iciay. Improwemout of
financial performance and viability of jute and
extile adWmtrise tbroogb Product moat cootrols.
revised product pricing peliciam. capital reotruc-
curing sad asset ewlwAcaucpor



-52- ~    ~        ~        ~        -
Es.    1wuet    A,gusl    UgIngin.ommt         he*W= hjeilegn                                Ieee. Mbe.n
VII 11      waPs         S1712      lam1           bwesIqm  of so emwes  tesvep mm              IaLtiathgu mg a em.pmsiwe uqput 4sr,aIep
pelle  fmsub                                 a    I    . led at s trum -I      the
emawie i_ rastawsml m_ __ tAt_tainl
ea,eblitkil  m at sommoedet  usk gm muss
ant a mAimS eqiut  sliey MO   tI.
_m _ p1Ay p_e ,wee. pr_ zam_.qini-
mtiadgimfmutim. med pste .
VII                     ovaNll 621  6111           Ceqiemiem of aetiam posorm requbesms         kpliNtaLm   of a pluseS coital gtgl-
'a pdarity lmubstrie.  wh in et Lpias-      -Sa p weqm adstaMisekgul of uebmAai
tatie (Jue. stes te1iS.. Po/p  td           p        e        ane  am au1t ad egill
Poe). h1_elw       m - u                     prisia  at"_  _          Xrete  in the  t a
desel<piag * -rgls~mLwu eqest policy         l      . d apt metaPie1  of gima rgsmuutw-
-d etrte  hItd mSer Ce. M.                   inm  pr_ia    li Lahe tamAle itwry.
Cn_fiem of a tudy Egw the  _um-te  dvvelep-
mm of do Pal   d low _     Ustry. _uetb-
going of the e_m aggam  pegs by
fein_1_  M  mel of _1    IFy agtmauts in
se-mtritleue  eq.ta.             tbh ofe-
tis       of  I   M               imp-An
dat uelaetieewe a'alg    to vauiter 
II1 " 15611    USd35       IN"   11U                  USEt of feg gr_m iubgtqr mm ese                 te   hedgelay a_le_ tis f*l simrg
sges     to s   rimltur.  s,s.t of          tiriatse. drLa_   me  flag  egtul;
policy rasi  lAtredmad or Plmsd by           ange of ad_gsA e_I_ _         of di eel fuel
th  _tueug t meret_ pnducuie                 was ere pi  tame          fuLl uperAsm, eg
dfUicimKy sad eqity of f_egiSraLa            irrigaLim equLme; cndesla  of a ptr *   est
digsrrih.tie. fy.swii  of f_rnide             u     iedy Egg the gaittutia  W
e_cma for latetim of rmm utiga.               dditimmal belk  t_a  capacity for dIsel to
c_qeguete m  equip_ et to _mble tan          rurl acess; pweia  of aiLtieel avicalturel
1uduiiL. cnestructine   a egricultul        crdit by the bMM&L6 sysm; _upM_' m_   Of
secters teach full pdti_ ptial.   Iu_itut  drucmiaa of the f  a_
eyeem-eutablie. of addihional I  _           .
trlag of otaff. LaplifictiL   e -loading
pre_sheus. rediit Uevilability gm fortIlAer
psrthss.receusy of egriculLtee dea;



-53-
AMU rv
Credit                       Datr of                     Juatifi ctio  for                                lector Spcf Lf i     Policy
go.     mount    Approval       Diaburmnat             Rrogra lmndiog                                   Isues Addressed
greater involvement of thb private sector in the
iafacturiag of mir irrigation equip_*t and
of maintenance and repair aereice.; prie- adjust-
oeto for irrigation equipmnt; liberaliration of
ant;-boarding regulatiDan and lavw. provision of
bask credit to private traders to build storage
facilities and bold grain stocka, aboliehomt of
the sytmr  of Approved Grain Dealer. ad standard-
imtien of private *nrket veights to improve the
private eetor's sarketing efficiency in graiL.;
co_ission of a study to determine thb coumtry'
storage needs for foodgrain.; establishme*t of an
appropriate institutional mebeani_n for infor-
nation and nalypim to facilitate policy prepar-
ation, plan-ing and moitoring.
1 L194          UsSICoM      121/1         06/54          Support of policy improvements initiated        Proviaion of incentives to far_ra. reduction of
under Cr. 1071 (or earlier) to increoas         price riska  faced by farmers. and improvement in
the production an well as the efficieney        tbe dintributimn of key inputs to atianlate food-
and equity of foodgrsin  arketing and           grain production; atabilixation of foodgrain suply
distribution. Expansion of the private         and conanmr prices during lean seaos; reduction
cedetr role in the import, doo_tic             of suboidies for minor irrigation equipment; re-
manufacture. sale and eervicing of              duction of budgetary impact of the foodgrein
Irrigation  qulipment to reduce the public      nbaidy end procurement.
sector involvemen in tbeae activitiea.
xi     1300    Uss$11n       111/2         06/85          Support of a broad range of policy reform       Reaurce obilintin and  unatrnt:  increae  in
in public resource 07bilixatiog and bud-        budgetary resources through tax measure. redue-
getary mnagement. iL agricultural and           Lion of public *ector losses od mbaidie. proper
food policies (further policy chmages and       planning of budgetary reaourcees actions to
inatituLio0al i1provenent*.) and in trade      *tre_line ad apeednp  und releaseo  to improve
and indnstriml policies (recent policy          project impleentation. inprovemot of financial
initiative.),                                   performnce, mnaent prACtLCCa ad organisation
of auto_omona agencies.



-5'-
Am=U TV
Pag 5
Credit                        Date of                     Justification for                                 Sector Specific A Policy
lo.    Amount      Approval      Disbursemet            Program Lendisg                                   looses Addressed
hgTiMJLSm: follow-up on initiatives taken
under Cr. 1194; rationalization of finaeial
policie  for  ajor abort-tm  agricultural
credit progr.
Teed.t end Induntry: lhebralisation of inveet-
_ot lieeaing ad control.; price liberal-
iatiLoladjnetmrot by public entitiee;
premotima of export grwth and divwraification;
implemntatioa of the Trade ed Industrial
Policy (TIP) Deform Program.
Xil    1471     1S140K        05/5'        O11D           Support of furtbhr irowemets:
(a)  in dwamtic financiel reeource  obil-
isatiom for Lb* public sector, in budgtary
_mgemet _d financial reource utili-
uetion. and in public enterprise efficiecy
-  so as to iuproe the effectivewn_    of
public sector development efforts,
(b)  in fioanoial mctor ad agricultural
credit policie.. in agricultural and food
policies, ad in industrial _d trade
policies - so as to improve tbe policy
eovironemnt in wbich the private-sector
can contribute increasingly to econmic
development _d growth.



