CREDIT NUMBER 1655 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Thirteenth Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          ,/ 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1655 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          V 6?4V                      , 1986,
between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANfADESH (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has received from the Borrower a
letter on its economic development policies dated January 2,
1986;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with deletion of the last sentence of Section 3.02 thereof
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the res-
pective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Bangladesh Bank" means the central bank of Bangladesh
established under the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127
of 1972);
(b) "Policy Improvements" means the collective measures the
Borrower intends to take in pursuance of sound economic develop-
ment policies, including but not limited to those associated with
financial planning and budgetary management, project implementa-
tion, agricultural credit, foodgrain procurement and distribu-
tion, and fertilizer pricing and distribution;


﻿-2-
(c) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2
(1981);
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)  "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing
July 1 and ending June 30;
(f) "Taka" or "Tk" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g)   "BADC" means Bangladesh Agricultural Development Cor-
poration, established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(h) "BWDB" means Bangladesh Water Development Board, con-
stituted by the Bangladesh Water and Power Development Boards
Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred eighty six million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 186,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Bangladesh
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be


﻿-3-
made in accordance with -the -1 provisions -o,,Sch4u1A, 3 to this
Agreement.                           L-f:A        I  bF1 IaIF
Section 2.03. The Closing Date :aha1lwberi-ju"jj0-,! 88 or
such later date as the Association shall.-.establish.;;T4p:09cia-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date o',f the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of-one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1996, and ending Jan-
uary 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-49
'n Sedtin JD2.09.  Th   ,ifthorized  representatives  of  the
Bangladesh Bank are designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
- 'ken ad eethd pidvilions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
£s:AfticddIVf-bthe&Genral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description and Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Project is a part of the Borrower's
program to improve (i) agricultural sector policies, programs and
institutions, (ii) financial planning, budgetary management and
financial resource utilization, and (iii) project implementation,
and, to this end, to:
(a) make available foreign exchange to eligible importers
for the import, into the Borrower's territory, of goods necessary
to support the economy; and
(b) carry out the Policy Improvements.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) make available, or cause to be made available, to
the eligible importers, promptly as needed, such
amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required
to import goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit; and
(ii) take all such action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the,Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in Taka
equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association pursuant


﻿-5-
to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, in an account currently being
maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts are to be
described , n accordance with standard practice as the proceeds
from "IDA Cr>edit No.     BD".
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's
development programs.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 in each
calendar year, inform the Association of the Taka provisions made
in the Borrower's Annual Development Program for the fiscal year
which began on the preceding July 1 for the development projects
being financed by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall inform the Association on a quar-
terly basis of the amounts of Taka allocated or released for the
projects being financed by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than August 31, 1986, exchange views on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Policy Improvements. Prior to
such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation for its review and comments a report on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of said Policy Improvements, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of
the prooeeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-6-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than April 1, 1986, review in consultation
with the Association the wholesale prices of chemical fertilizers
so as to determine and make such further adjustments in said
prices as may be necessary to eliminate the economic subsidies on
such chemical fertilizers by July 1, 1986; and
(b) after July 1, 1986 (i) review at quarterly intervals
and (ii) adjust at least twice in each fiscal year, if needed,
the wholesale prices of chemical fertilizers so as to ensure that
in each such year there are no economic subsidies on said ferti-
lizers.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, within a time period
satisfactory to the Association, carry out a program acceptable
to the Association to improve the Borrower's system for recording
its external debt.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Bangladesh Bank
to establish, not later than June 30, 1986, annual minimum
average recovery rates satisfactory to the Association for agri-
cultural credit institutions, and thereafter to review such rates
with the Association at regular six-month intervals.
Sect.ion 4.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
not later than March 31, 1986, an action program, acceptable to
the Association, to reduce and eventually eliminate food sub-
sidies.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
March 31, 1986, appoint consultants, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, to carry out studies on the


﻿-7-
operation and maintenance requirements of the water and irriga-
tion, national highways and education sectors.
(b) The Borrower shall, based upon the studies referred to
in paragraph (a) above, not later than July 1, 1987, implement
new procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for assessing
the said operation and maintenance requirements and making ade-
quate provision therefor in the annual budget.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall, with the assistance of
consultants acceptable to the Association, and in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, carry out a
study of the functions, organization, staffing and operational
role of BADC, such study to be completed not later than Novem-
ber 30, 1986.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association,
for review and comment, and thereafter implement, the findings of
the study referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall make arrangements, satis-
factory to the Association, to enable private dealers to purchase
and off-lift chemical fertilizers directly from factories.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall make arrangements, satis-
factory to the Association, for the sale of stocks of minor irri-
gation equipment held by BADC.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall cause the Bangladesh Bank
to review its medium-term agricultural credit programs in order
to ensure consistency of lending terms in such program and shall
provide to the Association, not later than March 31, 1986 an
action plan to achieve this objective.
Section 4.11, The Borrower shall cause the Bangladesh Bank
to prepare, not later than December 31, 1986, a detailed action
program to increase deposits with credit institutions in the
rural areas, such program to include an appropriate deposit rate
structure and other appropriate incentives.
Section 4.12. The Borrower shall, cause the Bangladesh Bank
to set up an Agricultural and Rural Guarantee Fund and to pre-
pare, in consultation with the Association, not later thtan
June 30, 1986, operational guidelines for such Fund.


﻿-8-
Section 4.13. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Bangladesh
Bank to undertake studies; undeT terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, of the operLltions of branches of banks pro-
viding agricultural credit, their staffing patterns and require-
ments, training needs, incentives and delegation of authority,
with a view to defining an action program for institution build-
ing of such banks, such studies to be completed by December 31,
1986 or such other date as the Association may otherwise agree.
(b)  The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association
for review and comments the findings and recommendations of the
studies referred to in paragraph (a) above and thereafter imple-
ment such recommendations as the Borrower and the Association may
agree.
Section 4.14. The Borrower shall, not later than May 31,
1986 employ consultants with qualifications and 'Lader terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association to (i) review and
revise as appropriate its procedures for awarding contracts
including, inter alia, delegation of responsibilities; (ii) pre-
pare and revise manuals setting out procurement guidelines and
procedures; and (iii) design and implement a training program for
its key procurement staff in ministries, agencies and public
sector corporations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date     of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tions 3.04 (c) and (d) of this Agreement shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date 10 years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the


﻿9-
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                        SETU BJ 642226
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties heretc, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
ByS4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByS
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   All goods imported into the People's Republic of Bangladesh
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, except,,that no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which a national or international financing inst,Ltution or any
other agency shall have financed or agreed to fina#ce;
(b) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(c) without limitation to the foregoing paragraphs (a) and
(b), expenditures for items included in the following SITC groups
or sub-groups:
Group    Sub-Group    Description of Items
112        -         Alcoholic beverages
121        -         Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122        -         Tobacco, manufactured
667        -         Pearls,  precious  and  semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
688        -         Uranium depleted   in U235 and tho-
rium, and their alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles thereof, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium depleted in
U235 and of thorium
718       718.7.     Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
n.e.s.
897       897.3      Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' wares (includ-
ing set gems)
-       971.0       Gold, non-monetary   (excluding  gold
ores and concentrates)


﻿- 12 -
(d) expenditures for items under SITC Group 661, Subgroup
661.2, in the form of clinker;
(e) expenditures for items under SITC Group 672, Subgroup
672.5, other than billets imported exclusively for use in reroll-
ing mills;
(f) expenditures for items in any single SITC Division in
excess of 25% of the total amount of the Credit;
(g) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 18,700,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after April 1, 1985;
(h) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(i) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, procurement or
supply thereof.
2.   Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions
of this Schedule, no withdrawals (except for withdrawals under
prior commitments by the Association) shall be made and no com-
mitments shall be entered into by the Association (to pay amounts
to the Borrower or others), in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and
the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equi-
valent of SDR 112,200,000, unless and until:
(a) the Borrower shall have satisfied the Association,
after the exchange of views which shall take place pursuant to
Section 3.05 of this Agreement on the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Policy Improvements referred
to in such section;
(b) the Borrower shall have taken action satisfactory to
the Association to eliminate economic subsidies on chemical
fertilizers in accordance with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agree-
ment;


﻿- 13 -
(c) the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association an
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to improve the
Borrower's capacity to monitor public expenditures;
(d) the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association an
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to strengthen the
Borrower's debt recording system; and
(e)  the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that ration prices
have been increased as required to ensure that (i) overall food
subsidies were reduced by about Tk 0.6 billion in FY 86 as com-
pared to FY 85, and (ii) unit subsidies were reduced in FY 86 to
l-vels satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   The Guidelines are hereby modified as follows:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 2.8 and the substitution
therefor of the following:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 2.44) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, prequalify, or
bid, in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower's country and by at least one of the following
methods:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
following:
"As an alternative, the bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency
widely used in international trade and specified in the
bidding documents."


﻿- 15 -
(c) By the deletion of paragraph 2.55 and Appendix 2.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded on
the basis of price quotations available from organized inter-
national commodity markets.
2.   Whenever the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied
that goods of a specific type, design or manufacture shall be
required in the interest of equipment standardization or of other
valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization of
existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured on a
negotiated basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. In addition, contracts for goods (other than pro-
prietary items) estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$500,000 each may be awarded on the basis of the normal procure-
ment procedures of the purchaser of such goods, up to an aggre-
gate amount of $50,000,000 equivalent.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract referred to in Part A.1
of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to SDR 23,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and aubsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify, On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to


﻿- 18 -
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.


﻿- 19 -
(b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Ceri1fi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   IL    L  day of
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


